ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19856	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, continue the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The delays were announced by distinguished representative Monika Tomić, MPs Jovan Vukovljak, Miroslav Milovanović, Asim Sarajlić, Lazar Prodanović, and representatives Saša Magazinović and Nenad Lalić justified the absence. BiH Communications and Transport Minister Ismir Jusko delivered a notice on the inability to attend the session. According to the Service's information, the session is present at the moment of 26 MPs. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. So we broke up the debate at point seven. At this point, according to the schedule for the debate, MP Nikola Lovrinović reported. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19857	Good afternoon. Thank you, Chairman. So, before me was Mr. Rančić, however, here's the disappearance, but good. I welcome, of course, everyone present here and wish us successful work. First of all, at the beginning of what I am about to say today, and on this topic, I would say, that lately, and not only in recent times, but in a little longer, it seems to me, I have the impression, that whatever, therefore, the Republic of Croatia is doing when it comes to touching the point of any kind of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so when it solves its issue or when it comes to dealing with issues concerning the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what it is necessary to care or directly to help Bosnia and Herzegovina in the general sense of the word, it is often interpreted, therefore, by harming Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this part of it here is publicised and creates such perception and of course that in such conditions it is increasingly difficult and more difficult to do, especially to us representatives from the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But if I were to go back to the subject, so I would say next, I would remind you that this issue, according to my knowledge, took a long discussion within the Republic of Croatia about the need to build this bridge. After this was agreed, the process of convincing the European Union that everything is under domestic and international rules and that building funds could be approved. What were we doing at that time? Nothing at all. It seemed that we met our demands, i.e. they were agreed with the Republic of Croatia. And look at the wonders then, two, three months later, our more serious, so-called approach to the subject begins. It begins by seeking information from my colleague at the Committee for Communications and Transport, I hope that she will not be angry, Mrs. Vajzović, expert on this topic, as I did, is looking for information – as far as it came with the construction of the Pelješko Bridge. The Koleginica Vajzović argues that we did not get this information, which is not true, because it was sent to us on 08.05., probably because it states in the same address, and they alone, some of them, the Pelješki Bridge is not the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the agreed notes of expert commissions on bridge gauges and other issues for building the same from 2006, the 2 delegations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia in Sarajevo, in April 2016, which adopted the following conclusions: 1. Building a mainland-Peljesac bridge should be a matter of profession, not politics at all. 2. The Land-Peljesac Bridge will be built with respect to all rules of technical and international standards related to the construction of such infrastructure facilities. Unsatisfactory with this information by colleagues, strengthened and signed by other colleagues, raises this issue at the House of Representatives. The 49th session, which discussed, adopts conclusions that require information. But interestingly, the re-election of the so-called so-called. the note, without any information on this matter at all, and is tasked with the Council of Ministers to provide information and forward the so-called note. It was already clear that the information was not actually requested, but the background was something else, which I'll talk about later. The Council of Ministers, acting on this conclusion, brings the report to 108th session, which, again, is not good for some, and perhaps because of this conclusion that Mr Bevanda read. It therefore concludes that the Council of Ministers, where the issue of the construction of the Land-Peljesac Bridge is not in any way prejudged, nor creates legal assumptions regarding the resolution of other issues in the UN's Sea Law Conference. According to my information, there have been incredible pressures on the ministry to change its report, so you have colleagues in the materials, you have materials that say that these have been sent to you by mistake, or that you have a new report, replaces the old one, and in the end, you have this supplement that we are considering today, and which Mr Osmanović did not wait for. Here I'm going to make a little move on the subject and ask us – what are the decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly according to the Constitution? Are those the decisions of only one home? What is it regulated that only one home has to be implemented by the Council of Ministers? If he has to, why, for example, did not implement the conclusions of the 2008 or 2013 House of Peoples on the establishment of a Croatian TV service? I, gentlemen, think the decision and position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is the one adopted by both homes. Now we're coming to the position of acting as acting officers and their actions in this time. How is it possible for a minister without a Council of Ministers' decision to transmit the views of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as he said? How is it possible that it is the same thing that deputies and home presidencies do, and that at one home this point was not even a topic? And, imagine, everyone does it a day or two before taking a stand on the bodies where it's being discussed, so here's what happened today at this House, that is, last time, this is a sequel. It's not the first time, remember Sutorina, remember the review of the lawsuit, etc., and it's usually done by politicians from the Bosniak people and most often by the order of the SDA. It is a gentlemen's counter-constitutional action, it is a silent amendment to the Constitution, it is the conversion of the BiH Parliament into a one-home parliament, it is the gentlemen's best example in order to function so-called. The civil Bosnia and Herzegovina or, rather, the unitary. It is knowingly avoided to debate on bodies where the representation of constituent peoples is complete and where legitimate representatives are the same. Do you think we're not gonna watch this? I think you're wrong. If I were back on the subject, Momo, don't mess with me, I'd like one of my colleagues to bring out the data – when, where and what formal and informal move, act or act, or something like that, did the Republic of Croatia challenge the passage of Bosnia and Herzegovina to international waters? I would also like someone to say what would be acceptable, something only tried to talk about Mrs. Kapetanović, something about the gauges and the like, but did you hear it yourself? In the end, I'll end up seeing how I actually see it. Everything says this is about preventing the Republic of Croatia from fulfilling its obligations to protect and rights of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the Constitution, Vošington and Dayton. Croatia wants to move away or, not to say rougher, discipline. I would like to Podsjetić you that in the procedure of amending the Election Law, the Law on the TV System and that there is no more direct intervention of international institutions than before when we were changed by the Constitution, including the Peace Agreement. Of course this situation is impossible to imagine. Therefore, ladies and 3 gentlemen, I suggest that the colleagues who signed this, but before I suggest a conclusion, I will remind you of another fact, and you may not have been able to come to this material, but there is one material called the Analysis of the effects of foreign vessels in part of the Adriatic coastal sea in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted by the Interresor Group on the analysis of the effects of foreign ships in part of the Adriatic coastal sea in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015 and by the Council of Ministers at the 9th session of 2006 and 2016. When you look at this document, you will see that people, those experts who have recommended it, and the Council of Ministers has accepted, therefore, demand that access be banned at all, let me say, to the neuro-aquatorium, that, above all, they opt for tourism, shell farming, fishing, ecological tourism and anything else. It is even recommended that ships do not unload their own cargo, but somewhere on the high seas, so Ploče port is recommended, etc. Interesting material, look at it and you'll see. So, it's not clear what we're even justifying this vision of ourselves, as my colleague Magazinović, who isn't here today, said, so there might be a port, but here he says, that we should prepare the situation, so if, if he didn't, he wouldn't. For this reason, dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we try to maintain some good neighbourly relations and relations, because despite being said that Croatia is to us, and I believe, one of the best friends in the world at all and that it remains, I suggest that those who have signed the Declaration withdraw it, and I suggest that a conclusion be adopted at the same time, which will require the Parliamentary House of BiH from the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit up to the next session to the House of Representatives information which is being taken on the resolution of the misunderstanding on the construction of the Pelesian Bridge. I think that would be far more correct, in order to keep it a topic, to find a solution and, as some colleagues in the previous session spoke, to come to a situation where, by talking, by agreement and good relations with good intentions and in good faith, we solve this issue, because it can be solved, and you are aware that we have contributed a lot, as I said in one sentence, by thinking that we have done our job. So, in 2006, we asked for something, Croatia accepted it, we did not, for what reasons, confirm it at the Council of Ministers, not the other day when the Council of Ministers was at the 108th session, the same conclusion was in the proposal, so the Office of Legislatives found something there that was wrong, we did not leave it to the Presidency to do so, which is his letter, so that he would say his position and the decision that was made ten years ago. So a lot of things are on our own, and only the Council of Ministers says that this situation does not affect any legal status or negotiations on borders, nor the status of going out to the open sea according to international standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19858	Thank you very much. Denis Bećirević, correcting the wrong allegations. Since he's standing here correcting that he's the first, this is your second, this is now in this session, so we're keeping records neatly, so you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19859	The Honorable Chairman. So I feel the need to make things right and point to five very important facts that must not be clouded today during this debate. First, Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state wants the best possible good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Croatia on the fundamental principle on which the United Nations organisation rests and relations between members of the United Nations is the principle of sovereign equality and equality of all states. The second thing, Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed to resolving all open and controversial issues by dialogue, and no one has brought it to the 4th question. The third thing is to underline that Bosnia and Herzegovina has never interfered with the internal issues of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. It would be good if such a relationship were also from the neighbouring Republic of Croatia to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fourth is very important, and I don't know why it's getting away from it, Bosnia and Herzegovina has legal organs, has the BiH presidency, it's competent under the Foreign Policy Constitution. The BiH presidency unanimously adopted its views on the issue in 2007. In 2009, Radmanović introduced the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. That decision, until it is changed in the Presidency, has its legal fact, its legal effect, its strength. Why are we running away from that fact? And finally, I want to remind you that it's really not right to place you. on unitaryisation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There is no country in Europe, that I do not go wider, which is so decentralised and one so decentralised It's not even correct to stick to the country's unitary label. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19860	Thank you very much. Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong allegations, also another. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19861	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all present. Here, I practically replicate my colleague, Lovrinović. It's true, I was looking for information, I was looking for how far it just came because the information didn't match. In Croatia, it was known that an application for funds was being prepared, everything was said to be fine, Bosnia and Herzegovina said it was not. I was just asking where it came from, who's right, the information disagrees. What I got on the Commission, not that I wasn't satisfied, not that it wasn't enough, but not even today, after the House of Representatives sent the answer, we don't know, we don't have an answer to this question – as far as it came. The answer is probably in the Commission, in the European Commission, and it would be best to ask them for what they have received from Croatia as a valid document that confirms, and the European Commission insists on our consent, always mentioning it, on which basis they have assigned. I don't suppose 357 million people are that trusting. And ask the Republic of Croatia what they added, which document, obviously, we disagree. I think we should start with that, and then we'll get clearer. What happened in 2016 when she was preparing for an app at meetings with ours, with our Ministry, we still don't know that. What you are, very briefly, which is what the Republic of Croatia has challenged. It is necessary to read, and there will be a very clear answer as soon as it challenges. Do not dispute, go through, go through the inner waters that we have so declared, we give you the harmless passage that everyone has alive, but through territorial waters. So, let's, somewhere move must be, do you in the code, The maritime code of the Republic of Croatia, is somehow different [[the speaker is warned on time]] But here, it's not mine, I guess someone else will handle it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19862	Thank you. Debate, agent Salko Sokolivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19863	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Here, I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. 5 Behold, a few words on the topic of the Peljega Bridge, but also on the topic of realising the building of the bridge on Savi near Svilaj. I think it's a common agenda point, and about this other problem, which is also a problem, here's none of the MPs have said anything so far, so I'm going to try a few words to say on that subject. And above all, my message to Mr. Lovrinović that good neighbourly relations are an expression of mutual respect. I think it is, uh, important between two neighbours, two neighbouring countries, two neighbouring regions, etc., therefore, mutual respect, and we have witnessed that, especially in recent days, messages from the Republic of Croatia come from not good neighbourly, I would say so. However, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are causing some problems, so we have often heard the answers of our officials to the information coming from the official Zagreb. It's probably the result of this solution that needs to be ended when it comes to the Hague Six, but here, we'll see the development of the event further. As far as the Peljega Bridge is concerned, I will say that this is not necessarily a problem for Bosnia and Herzegovina if the previous issues are resolved, and many debaters have talked about it before me, almost not to say anything new, but I think it should be repeated because obviously we have some misunderstandings here. In my opinion, the problem and what is needed, the problem that needs to be solved is to require the Republic of Croatia to revise the Croatian Maritime Law. By unilateral declaration of the internal seawaters, Croatia closed the Bosnian Herzegovina sea, and that is, the essence of the problem, which means that the water facilities from and according to Neum cannot freely pass through Croatian seawaters and its territorial seas. That's the point of the problem, and I think it should be solved. And I didn't, I know, say anything new, that's what the debaters said before me. This previous issue should be permanently and legally resolved to satisfy all possible bridge and to satisfy all technical characteristics of bridges built above or through international waterways, i.e. seals with an international legal regime. Therefore, the basic approach is to define the legal regime of the sea area on which the construction of the Peljev Bridge would be possible. I think that in the next period, members of the predsjedaništvo, chaired by the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Civil Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Minister of Transport and Communications, should define the position, form a order of moves and address this problem with the responsible from the Republic of Croatia, and report to the Parliamentary Assembly on the meetings held, the results achieved, and that we, too, are in progress here in parliamentary benches. And I, as far as the Peles Bridge is concerned, would not at this moment be any more. When it comes to building a bridge on Savi near Svilaj, I have a few questions, but here, there is no minister, but there is a deputy minister, so I expect certain answers to the questions I will ask. I will point out that the first procurement of contractors started on 13 September 2010 and, in fact, since '10, '11. In the years, and I've often said that when we're making budgets, we're transferring those 70, 80 million planned funds to build this bridge. What's the loss of unrealised judgment on your own, that's what I'm talking about, but I'll say it's December '11. The accepted offer of Shrabag, Strabag, amounting to 20 million and some euros. The agreement with Strabag was terminated before the beginning of the work, and what I do not know are the reasons why the contract was terminated, because after that, the damage to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina was caused by financial damages. Strabag sued, and there's about a million and 177m euros there, in fact, in the game, to pay the company to settle for the damage it received at the time. Meanwhile, since it is a joint project with the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's highways that have been sued also included Bosnia and Herzegovina worth 535m euros. And that's about 2.5 million euros or more of the damage someone's done. And here's 2017, I don't know that, the bridge wasn't built, and I haven't heard, or I'm not aware, that someone was responsible for the damage that was done in the realization of this project. Also, the second tender procedure did not see the light of day, it was annulled. Third procedure 14th. July 6, 2016 is over. The company that is to build this bridge is, with it is signed a construction agreement and, here, we have information that in May 2017 we have a realisation of some 6.5% of the agreed price or somewhere around a million and 500 thousand euros spent. The situation around the silk bridge is mostly we all know. Here, I've only tried a few sentences to say how it went and to ask the person responsible in this process a few questions. So, why is the contract with Strabag terminated and why and who is responsible for the damage that occurred during the termination of this Treaty under this project, and about what is the dynamics of the end of the bridge in Svilaj knowing, this, how much will it mean in improving the travel infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the integration with the countries of the region, in this case, the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19864	Thank you. Debate, MP Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19865	Dear working presidency, colleagues and fellow officials, members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you. When misunderstandings arise between neighbors, it is crucial to talk. Disagreements on the construction of the Peljega Bridge between two important neighbours are not a matter to disrupt good relations and the crucial, which we all want in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that together with the Republic of Croatia and other countries of the European Union we are part of these integrations that will provide freedom and human rights, perspective and security. The Republic of Croatia is too important for us, and we are too important for the European Union, because this is the largest border between us and the European Union, between us and NATO. Bosnia and Herzegovina borders 1,500km with NATO and it is very important for security to know where the border is. When problems arise, talks should start and return to basic principles that allow for a full solution, which is to establish a limit, give the profession the right to determine the elements, then build. I want to say, here we are in the SBB which we were not participants in the process in which the President of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Tuđman and the chairman of the BiH Presidency Mr. Izetbegović signed around the borders, but we are prepared to ratify it. It's not good, and we haven't done a job that we're responsible for for 20 years of peace in these areas one big border, more than 1,000 kilometers is not officially regulated. Let's do this, we've got a starting job, we've got a key dimension, heads of state with the presence of an international factor have signed an agreement, let's ratify. It will define all those elements that will enable the expertise to work and build without any burden. The border must be between us and the neighbours of the borders on which it is built and the borders in which the belt is built. It has to be a meeting place, not a break-up. The problem that has arisen is because we haven't finished the job that preceded it. We have an opportunity to do it, and we, as SBB, have offered one conclusion which brings things back to that source – let's admit it, let's ratify it in both Parliaments and tell our colleagues in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia – here, we are ready to ratify it. Let's speed it up and relax the whole building situation. There will be a need to build in this place and many other places, and that's happiness, and that's what we have to be committed to, but we have to do it in a way that we have to look for the path that is legally founded in the principles of state relations and the path that allows us through co-operation, economic, cultural, through the co-operation of the people, to build a better future for everyone. That's what we should insist on. Non-building is a great shame, anywhere, the authorities are responsible for building. We as parliaments, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, can make a strong contribution to building. Let's ratify the deal, it's a done deal, we got it on the table. It's already been built once, let's say seven, the entire pathway of where they are, what they are, and how relationships are at the border. Come on, let's make a line and wake up a country that, most of its border, regulated it with its neighbors. We regulated with the state of Montenegro, we had a small belt, one big question, a big border with the Republic of Croatia unnecessarily stands delayed for many years, the ratification process with the Republic of Serbia is accelerated, and that is what this country needs. Then we will allow economic, infrastructure development to be channeled by what follows. But here I would especially like to highlight one of our responsibilities when it comes to regulating that great border, it's a matter of security. You can also take over the security of a single border if it is defined in its nature. We live in a time of great turbulence, we do not rule out the possibility of being hit by a new refugee wave, we are responsible for managing that space in a way that protects the integrity of the part we are responsible for and the part we are pursuing, that is the European Union, and it is important that we have that. Let's tell the world, let's tell Brussels that we're partners who are capable of dealing with it. The agreement between Mr Izetbegović and Tuđman, who in due time managed the states of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, to ratify it. We don't have a burden on that because we weren't involved, though, we think it's important to do it today. I call on you to ratify the Agreement and call on us to direct and send a message to our colleagues in the Croatian Parliament – we are ready to ratify, we suggest that we do so quickly and effectively to open up the opportunity for the builders to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19866	Thank you. Debate, MP Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19867	I thank the chairman. Mr. Lovrinović has challenged the constitutionality of some letters. You see, it's indicative that in recent days letters have been written by SDA and HDZ officials and can't separate one letter from another. So if it's a letter, here's just an example for the sake of it, Mr. Džaferović unconstitutional then it's just like Mrs. Krišto's unconstitutional letter and everything else. The point is, it's not constitutional, the point is that all these letters are just such an unserious approach and the principle of action extremely harmful to the interests and international image of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This approach is useful only in the pre-election interests of the SDA and HDZ, because while you are texting like this you do not answer why the questionnaire is not finished yet, why the translators for this questionnaire are not still engaged, why there is not one single law on the agenda today from the Council of Ministers and so on. But here's a little bit of a reminder when this question is on the agenda. This issue began with three open problems with Croatia, the bridge, territory, the top of Klek and Velika and Mali School, and land territory also affects the breadth of the territorial sea, and the third issue of the straight lines of the Republic of Croatia between Cape Proizd and the island of Vodnjak. The BiH presidency, then in co-operation with Silajdžić, Komšić, Radmanović, reacted to unity, seriously, responsibly and argued. Together, they decided to direct several letters to Croatia in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They have potentiated the issue in all bilateral talks with Croatian officials. The foreign minister also worked alongside them at the time. And this kind of action resulted in the consent of the Republic of Croatia to raise the bridge height from 30 meters to 55 meters. On the other hand, this territory, this action has also resulted in increasingly rare claims from Croatia that the Kleka Summit 8 and Velika and Mali School are its territory, and the final point on this issue has put the BiH presidency's visit to the Klek and velik Školje, accompanied by members of the BiH Police and Border Police Coordination Directorate, the visit was shown as the need to visit every corner of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After that, the Republic of Croatia, whose official has never been to the top of Klek or any of the Školjev, has never questioned the issue again. And then we still have to solve this issue with Croatia of their flat starting lines between Cape Proizd and the island of Vodnjak because these starting lines are not allowed according to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, because it clearly states that the coastal state, in this case Croatia, cannot draw straight lines in such a way that it separates the territorial seas of another country from the open sea or an exclusive economic zone, in this case another state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, the BiH presidency has no longer taken any action since 2010... the issue and it is unclear why the new Bosniak member has simply not dealt with the issue since 2010. It should be perfectly fair to confirm that the foreign minister in that mandate, Mr Lagumdžija, has done so and has taken certain lines, certain steps with a view to resolving this third issue, but this has never been completed. But what is particularly concerned is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not taken what every coastal state first needs to do in this field, has not established normal starting lines and published maps of the same, and what is the obligation of each coastal state, not to say its interest, according to UNCLOS, is that obligation. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the few countries that has not drawn straight lines of entry even though the configuration of our coast allows this with Školjev, but definitely in a way that closes Neumski Bay, making all the seas within the Neum Bay become the inner waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, as I have already pointed out, have an international status that is identical to land territory and which would make this aquarium even more protected. This is in response to these who insist all the time on protecting the aquarium. And now I am even more concerned that Minister Osmanović absolutely knows nothing about this issue, because when I did in March 2016, before any of these gentlemen from the SDA remembered that Neum exists, he asked why and when Bosnia and Herzegovina, why not so far, when it will not, on its own, determine its normal starting lines and draw the straight lines, Minister Osmanović answered me, provided me with an official response, that it cannot be done until the border is finally established at sea. But it's completely wrong, it's a response to the unit, it's just the opposite, without those lines being bordered at sea can't finally be determined. And that's why we're in '99. when we signed this Treaty, which Mr. Škaljić spoke of, used the lines provided by the Hidrographic Institute from Split, but today we haven't set our normal starting lines, which is our obligation and interest. In the end, both Slovenia and Croatia and Montenegro and every other coastal state in the world have drawn both their lines and their normal and flat right after their independence, in any case before the bordering at sea with their neighbours. These answers show me that, apart from the lack of expertise in the BiH presidency, which existed earlier as I said, we have no profession in the Council of Ministers now. In view of this second issue, the top of Kleka and the Great and mali Školj, we were inadmissible in the SBB, and we were shocked when we first saw that sentence in the letter of Minister Osmanović to his colleague Butković, where Osmanović threatened to withdraw Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Treaty on Borders signed by the then chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Izetbegović, Alija Izetbegović and Franjo Tuđman. And to remind you, this Treaty was signed within the Stability Pact, in the presence of 40 heads of state, including President Klinton at the time. And then Osmanović threatens to pull out of it. I also think that Fazlić owes us an explanation of why you brought this to our signature saying that Bosnia and Herzegovina will withdraw from that Treaty, who wrote it. In any case, we insisted on getting it out, taking out that sentence, and only after that sentence was removed was the SBB signed by that Declaration. But I want to say, the only reason the ratification stopped at the Croatian Parliament is because someone remembered there, before this visit, which I was talking about, the chairman of the BiH presidency top Klek, to challenge those territories. And they would be eager to wait for Bosnia and Herzegovina to withdraw from the agreement. We are also pleased that this was finally taken out and we hope that Mr. Osmanović also gave up that part of his letter because it is an extremely dangerous threat to the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I advise you not to play with such big questions. If Alija Izetbegović and Franjo Tuđman sign something on the Stability Pact in the presence of 40 leaders from other countries, and then you say that you will launch the procedure to get out of it, uh, it is really incomprehensible. Now, since many have called for a letter signed by Mr Radmanović in 2009, the letter also says at the very end that Bosnia and Herzegovina will, if its interests are not respected, and I say the rest is to satisfy this part of the flat lines, that it will launch the arbitration process... the lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia. In the letter, it is written in a way that Bosnia and Herzegovina will exercise its rights under point 2 of Part 15 of UNCLOS, and that is what we will sue you. Now, I'm curious why Mr. Izetbegović did nothing about it between 2010 and 2014 when he might have done something about it, when Mr. Komšić was in the presidency at the time. Now it looks like it's all down to copying. Now I'm interested, or I'm worried about whether all these threats will end, like that failed attempt at review, whether we're going to have some Sakib Softić taking boxes out of the trunk before the International Court of Justice or the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea in Hamburg, playing with some powers, etc., and whether one will take 100, what, 150 thousand marks for that failed attempt. What's the point here is there's no waist and there's no political responsibility. Do you think that in this meeting of the BiH Presidency, which I mentioned earlier, Fahrudin Radončić, at the end of the day, some other people, some village cheater might offer, uh, to say - here I am, I have, but that doesn't matter, let's try to screw up the International Court of Justice, something, uh, slip through and still take 150 thousand marks for it. At least Mr. Izetbegović should have found some small lawyer to provide him with a clause in the contract with Softić that if there are no results, then there are no 150 thousand marks. I'm afraid this is all going in that direction, because it has neither the profession nor the leadership.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19868	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19869	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will probably not present anything new in this discussion that we have not already heard on this agenda point, so I will try to make this critical review and commentary of the report in question as precise and concrete as possible. Given that we have received three different texts of the Report and one Supplement of the Report, this tells us how much this topic of building the Pelješko Bridge is easily understood by the Ministry of Communications and Transport and by the Council of Ministers, but also points to the willingness of individual representatives of the government to work contrary to the interests of their country, trying to impose the adoption of conclusions by the Council of Ministers that are contrary to the official positions set out by the BiH Presidency. By reading the Report and supplementing it, I concluded that the report tends to be trendy, i.e. with the intention of manipulation, it neglects the conclusion of the BiH presidency, adopted at the 18th session, held on 27 June 2007, which sets out the official position on the activities of building the Peljega Bridge as a requirement to establish the territorial border of the sea between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the BiH presidency concluded that it was not useful to take any unilateral acts until the border at sea is established on the basis of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. I recall these are the official adopted views of the BiH presidency that represent the official and binding foreign policy and the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina on the issue. The report noted that the Council of Ministers in 19.07.2017 took note of the 3rd position of the BiH Presidency, which required the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the situation and provide complete information on all the activities of the BiH Council of Ministers and individual ministries so far with a proposal for concrete measures. I therefore ask the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers – has the Council of Ministers since that date delivered the required full information to the BiH Presidency or has the BiH Council of Ministers been deaf all this time about this request from the BiH Presidency? If the Council of Ministers has disobeyed the request of the BiH Presidency, is there responsibility and who is responsible for such reckless relations, or who should possibly be responsible for the negligence and inaction of the laws of established obligations? Subject Report except that it is superficial and chronologically exaggerated is not even up-to-date, and in the same past events are announced as it will happen in the future. Although the latest version of the Report was signed on 25.08.2017 and received on 28.08.2017, page 4 of the Ministry of Communications and Transport points out that for 6 July 2017, the date passed, the joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which the proposal for the agenda is also the establishment and operation of a joint team of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia for negotiations on the application of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the demarcation of the sea. I ask the Ministry a question – why is this part of the Report not up-to-date and why is it not stated whether it was the agenda point of the joint session of the two governments, and what conclusions were adopted at that point? Given that the BiH presidency has found that, before the construction of the Peljega Bridge as a previous issue, it is necessary to establish a territorial border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, based on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, I have sought expert and scientific views on the matter, as some MPs have requested in their discussions. In scientific work, the Maritime Code of the Republic of Croatia and the International Law of the Sea, published in the Faculty of Law in Zagreb in 2008, prof. dr. The Faculty of Law of the University of Zagreb, Budislav Vukas, who, he says, has devoted his entire life to international law of the sea, in Chapter IV – Internal Sea and Territorial Sea, cited at point 8, quotes – On the eastern coast of the Adriatic in Klek-Neum Bay and along the outer coast of the peninsula Klek Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina has 21 km of coastal land lines. Like any other state along its coast, Bosnia and Herzegovina has internal seawater and territorial seas... The State Borders Treaty concluded with the Republic of Croatia on 30 July 1999, delimited with the Croatian sea. This Treaty shall apply from the date of its signature and shall enter into force when any detailed documents necessary for its permanent application are drawn up. Despite the fact that there are some dilemmas in Croatia about the justice and historical justification of some segments of demarcation, the existence of the coast and the sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the basis of the 1982 Convention, states that the Republic of Croatia is revising the lines that close its internal sea waters. Namely, in the position (6) of Article 7. The 1982 Convention is said to be – the state cannot apply the method of flat starting lines so that it separates the territorial seas of another country from the open sea or an exclusive economic belt. The rule is clear, regardless of 11 on the complete geographical satisfaction of our islands to be the basis for flat starting lines, regardless of the right of safe passage that Croatia guarantees through its internal waters and territorial seas to all ships that sail towards the coasts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina's maritime connections depend significantly on the use of Croatia's Luke Ploče, Croatia should withdraw new starting lines that would allow the territory of the coast of Bosnia and Herzegovina through our territorial sea to be combined with Adriatic waters outside our territorial sea, I end the quote. Therefore, this scientific and professional interpretation of Article 7(6) of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982 confirms the right of Bosnia and Herzegovina to link its territorial sea to the open sea, and I find it entirely justified and necessary that in the spirit of good neighbourly relations in bilateral talks, a solution which will satisfy all the rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea, as well as a project solution of the Peljega Bridge, which will in no way restrict, distort or reduce those rights, nor can be considered a perceived situation and a finished act. For this reason, I also consider it necessary and important to call on the Declaration, as an act expressing our opinion on this long-term important and important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina, to support and advocate good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Croatia, with which we share 1.001 km of borders, and to reach an agreement on this and all other issues of contentious and important importance on the principles of mutual respect, respect and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19870	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Aleksandra Pandurević, came forward for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19871	Thank you to the chairman. Well, we've said more or less in previous discussions what anyone's had. It seems to me that the basic problem here at the Peljega Bridge is the lack of communication, the lack of communication between the two states. We certainly remain in the position of what the institutions of this country say and the summit that it is necessary, when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, we have some open issues, and in order to have good neighbourly relations and in the interests of both countries, it is also necessary to resolve the issue of the border, because the issue of borders is for some people in this country a life issue. And the problem they've been facing for 20 years and a few years, especially those in the area of Kostanica where their border passes through the house, or the area where Una crosses 11 places from this and the other side of the border, which is a huge problem in everyday life. Of course, in addition to the border issue in the interest of both countries, given that we are economically dependent on each other, it is the infrastructure integration of the two countries, which we fully support. We therefore have a proposal to supplement this Declaration proposed by our colleagues. In the preamble, and I will read it, in the preamble of the Declaration to finally add two more positions – stressing the necessity and importance of resolving the issue of the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, and – calling for the rapid infrastructure integration of the region. Then, in the very text of the Declaration, we propose to add new points 8, 9, 10 and 11, and so far point 8, to become point 12. And I'm going to read these four points. First, point 8. We call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union, to speed up the activities of providing funds for bridge building on the international road route across the Sava River near Gradiška, and to end other procedures on the part of the Republic of Croatia so that the bridge is recently built and released for international 12 traffic, including connection shares in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which would make this international corridor fully functional. In fact, we know that Bosnia and Herzegovina has built a border crossing, and we have a highway that ends in the Sava River. Point 9. We call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union, to form the Union border as an interstate railway project in the National Strategy for the Development of Railway Traffic of the Republic of Croatia in order to create conditions for ensuring the financing of this key rail corridor for both countries. I'll remind you that this railroad used to pass, before the war, there were millions of people and 4 million tons of goods. And value, the technical and technological capacity of this railroad is estimated at 2.5 billion marks, but due to the carelessness of the collapse. Point 10. We call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union, to recognise the importance and role of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to drawing up documentation for the construction of the Adriatic-Ionian highway for a part of the route across the Popov field in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to include this traffic route in the part passing through Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to ensure the conditions for financing the construction of mutual satisfaction of the two countries, and to enable the effective integration of the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Croatia through Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and the Republic of Albania with the Republic of Greece, thus giving the Western Balkans another modern road communication. And finally, point 11. We call on the Republic of Croatia to address the issue of the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, recalling the difficult life of the population in the two Kostanica, Croatia and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the fact that the Una River is crossing from one side to the other side of the territory of the two countries, which significantly makes life of the local population more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19872	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, this is the second, you have already had two corrections to the wrong allegations, so in this case you do not have a Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the debate, MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19873	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that if this debate is looked at, it can easily be determined that, or apparently, there are two interested parties here and that this one third interested party, uh, the uninterested party, is not very much burdened by this problem. I'm saying apparently, because essentially I think this problem is much more complex than the problem of building the Peles Bridge. I'll try to make myself clear, as far as possible, and finally propose some measures. First, and not often, I sign a significant part of Mr Arnaut's discussion, and I think that it sheds considerable light on some of the dilemmas that are here through this act, and also through the Ministry's report, delivered to us. It will never be clear to me, nor this time, what kind of practice of correspondence we have with the European Parliament, the United Nations, the Secretary-General, the presidents of neighbouring countries, etc., and all of this we have had here in Parliament, and 13 I am even more vague about how it is possible to place a stamp on such letters. I was the last time there was that writing to the secretary-general of a number of colleagues, and that the seal of Parliament had gone, publicly said that I would file criminal charges against those responsible. And then people who understand themselves a little bit more rightly told me that they'd get screwed by civil servants, not by those who signed or forced civil servants to hit stamps there. And then I gave up that criminal report. Here, we have these letters again, and I think these letters are a significant damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation. We know the effect of those letters already know the effect of these letters. I said last time, uh, the only effect is that we established a really serious communication with the European Parliament, although they don't write to us, but we wrote to them a few letters already. The second thing that leaves a problem here or a space for this kind of discussion is the material that we got from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It was natural to get along with the material some further steps that the Ministry is planning and take this and the Council of Ministers to solve this problem. We didn't get that, whether or not I didn't know it, but then we got the space to write whatever declarations and conclusions, so to supplement those same declarations, so that we change the text, etc., etc., and all because it wasn't done, we didn't get quality material from the competent ministry, or, better said, that we obviously don't have a solution and we don't know what we're going to do next. That's exactly how it sounds to me. What is the range of this Declaration? I'd say the same as the letters. What's the point? The bottom line is good neighbourly relations between us and all the neighbors. Are we going to raise that good neighbourly relationship to a higher level or not? It's just an amazing attitude for me too. Declaration calling on the BiH Presidency not to reach bilateral solutions within 60 days of the entry into force of this Declaration, to initiate the exit procedure from... You guys know what 60 days is? 60 days is impossible for us to take any step through diplomatic channels, take a serious step, to solve this problem. It's just not possible, it's a job that's measured by a much longer time period than 60 days. And this is absolutely unacceptable and I don't think it's in the interest of either those who signed the Declaration or in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. There is little need here in the Declaration itself to prepare Article 3, and that is all I think we need, which is to call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union to urgently engage in bilateral talks with Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to achieve bilateral resolutions on the demarcation, not only at sea, so I would say the demarcation, without this at sea, on the principles of respect for the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. If we don't do it and we don't try to end this conversation, we're creating ourselves a much more complicated situation in the process of entering the European Union than we now assume. I think this Declaration, before we adopt it, must also be brought into line with the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and Liaison as well. I understand that we have a parliamentary right to bring the Declaration and without responsibility for the consequences of any declaration that we bring, because this is our political position on this issue brought in one way or another, some will justify having slept for 10 years, and they haven't solved this issue. I think it's one of the objectives of this Declaration, including those letters that were, that those who were supposed to solve this issue didn't do it when they were supposed to, and then now they're trying to justify themselves in this way. And in the end, I propose that today we do not adopt any declarations and any conclusions, that all of these materials and these discussions that we have had here, or through a specially formed group, or through an extended college, or the College, we make some documents that we would adopt at the next session, and that we hold certain consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Transport, or the Council of Ministers, as well as the BiH Presidency if possible. Any document we bring in today, nor will all around 14 agree, which in itself will have less range than he would otherwise have, nor will we, with such signs, achieve any effect by means of a scrawny document. So once again, I suggest that after this debate a stenogram with all the proposals of the conclusions be the subject of a consensus or a specially formed body or a College, i.e. an extended college, and that at the next session we adopt whether the conclusions, whether or not a declaration, but something that we can and about which we can reach a consensus, with the aim of relations with Croatia today, tomorrow, with other zeds, are settled by agreement and by no arbitration. And according to what I heard from my colleague Arnaut in that possible arbitration, it seems to me that we would have passed as well as... audits, given the number of mistakes we made in this procedure from 2006 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19874	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19875	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I ended up adding that what I wanted to say was actually a question of keeping the agenda. In fact, most colleagues today, and last time, talk about demarcation, about borders, and even in the Declaration, the most contained question from that area, and our agenda point says – Report on activities related to the construction of the Peljega Bridge and the Report on the activities of realising the project of building an interstate bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj and Corridor 5c, which no one has even talked about. So we obviously just took advantage of this point of the agenda, most of the people, the ones who encouraged them to actually talk about something else, and that's what I was saying in what I was saying. As far as the borders are concerned, here's a colleague of Aleksandra's, let's say we have problems inside of us, I'll just mention it to her, for example, the Koricani settlement on Vlasic, the cemetery is in Republika Srpska, and the church is in the Federation, so people don't know where they're going to get the water, the road, the road. So we have inside ourselves, within the limits of our problems, and not this, so we went all the way to the story of another topic. And I will remind you that the report, which, with the 108th session of the Council of Ministers, told us – notes that resolving issues related to the construction of the Land-Peljesac Bridge does not prejudge or create legal assumptions regarding the resolution of other issues in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. So that's what the Council of Ministers concluded, but we went into a whole other story and, look, I don't even know what it's like to come back at all. So we're not talking about the Peljesk Bridge at all anymore, because the Council of Ministers said it had nothing to do with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19876	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19877	Chairman of the House, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19878	Thank you very much. 15 Here, in the review of the report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, we have a lot of things, in some ways, from information from the Ministry of Transport and Communication of the Federation on 22.04.2015, until what was done by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH. So I will only briefly refer to certain things that are in these reports where it is mentioned that the expert group has considered these issues and has also taken into account the border at sea with the Republic of Croatia, which is established on the basis of the State Border Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, and according to the Act of the State Border Commission, the bridge is 400 meters west of the border line in the Republic of Croatia. Also, this information, i.e. the Report, shows that three bilateral meetings were held and that on the third of 7 December 2006, it resulted in the signing of a harmonised bookmark stating that the Republic of Croatia fully complied with the requirements of the Bosnian Herzegovina side and accepted the proposal on the width of the 200m waterway and the height of the light opening of the 55m bridge. Later, it says that when the contract was signed on the construction of a bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj since 18.07.2016. The Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH from Croatia, from the ministry, means that the Republic of Croatia received documentation on the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge and which was actually made at the request of the Croatian highway investor and said that the minimum demanding navigation profile below the future bridge was agreed at the levels of expert groups between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, by preparing this concrete report on the activities that we have received from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, it has also proposed the adoption of conclusions, and there has also been a reference to a number of representatives both through today and through the previous debate, and these are the three conclusions. This is the adoption of the Report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješko bridge, the Council of Ministers tasks the Ministry of Civil Affairs to ask the State Commission for Borders for a report on its work and the demarcation at sea and notes the Council of Ministers to address issues related to the construction of the Land-Paljesac Bridge in no way prejudges or creates legal assumptions regarding the resolution of other issues in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. And I also touched this one because, of course, several colleagues today have already said that we have received this kind of report that followed from the 108th session of the Council of Ministers. So that was one thing, so 18.08.2017, so it would be 28.07.(?) The report arrived and, of course, was completed with a report completed for the 51st session of the House of Representatives in which we actually see that previous conclusions have been lost, and it remains the conclusion that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is in charge of requesting a full report from the BiH State Commission on its work in connection with procedures, the maritime demarcation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. In fact, we can conclude that by sending, so, various of these versions, various reports and these additions to activities related to the construction of the Peljega Bridge are actually retroactively trying to change the previously adopted conclusions and thus actually offend this relevant report that we have received. Also, in information related to the construction of the Pelješki bridge and bridge on the Sava near Svilaj and the Action Plan for the construction of the highway on Corridor 5c, you saw that given that the Pelješki bridge is not on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry points out that there is no direct responsibility in connection with the implementation of this project, nor has the Ministry signed any agreement in connection with the construction of the bridge, according to the above mentioned and does not have any information regarding the construction of this bridge. The same is said that the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport initiative since 19 April 2016 held a meeting of delegations from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, and in some ways, in order to address even open issues with cooperation and, in fact, mutual satisfaction, as seen from this information, and in fact, some of them, as we call them, were presented here in the Information, constructive conclusions that the construction of the Land-Peljesac Bridge should be a matter of profession and no policy, and that the Land-Peljesac bridge will be built with respect to all the prescribed technical and international standards of 16 related to the construction of such infrastructure facilities. After that, here until today, there have been many different ways in the public, and also in the House, things related, and some statements, and also some letters mentioned today, and I, too, want to express here some attitudes regarding this problem, which is, in fact, a disturbing fact for me throughout this story, because in public, I wanted to create a picture that the views expressed are the views of the officials of the SDA, i.e. those are not the official opinions of the Council of Ministers, nor the Parliamentary Assembly, but the personal views of the colleagues who wrote these letters. You know that, therefore, the second deputy of the House of Peoples and the second deputy of the House of Representatives sent a letter and, in my view, I made it clear to the College, where I see a clear intention to deceive the public to interpret these views in the letter as the official views of the Parliamentary Assembly, in which both the authors and these letters were, in some way, through the media and received such a kind of feature. The example works, the letter mentioned, states that the meeting of the House of Representatives was held on 05.07.2017 – The House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to send a note to the Republic of Croatia to suspend all activities related to the construction of the Pelješko Bridge until full mutual agreement is reached. Although the same session concluded that three more stakes were adopted, the letter is absolutely not mentioned. For all things, I, as House Chairman, as a person representing the House at this time, had an obligation to, together with the chairman of the House of Peoples, to inform, so I did not write a letter to the same institutions about pointing back to any matter, or to some facts, but simply pointed out that these were not the official views of the Parliamentary Assembly, nor the Council of Ministers, but rather the personal views of the signatories of the letter or the views of their parties. We also stressed in this letter that, in accordance with the applicable regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the said gentlemen are not in any way authorized to lead Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, nor to interpret decisions, both the presidency and the Council of Ministers. So, but unfortunately, I have to show it here, we're all behind the pay phone, today it's a lot and it's been said, and here often times the gentlemen, too, who are not authorized to express their views, nor their opinions on this subject, but often they take their right to do so, so I also said that certain representatives here behave – the state it is I, the court it is I, the institution it is, but that is what hurts the most, I would say, to the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to all its peoples and citizens who live there. The construction of the Peljega Bridge itself today is used exclusively for pre-election purposes under the cover of the protection of vital interests. I think one of these behaviors and one of these, perhaps, debates, as has been said here by many colleagues, harms all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that it is an inappropriate rhetoric and that these days we have brought forth so many things that have damaged the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both in the neighbourhood, I would say, and in the European environment because the Republic of Croatia is a member of the European Union. I say this, whatever I say, no matter how anyone experiences it, and letters and writing, means, in no way do I want to put myself in any function of any protector of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, they need neither lawyer nor lawyer here among our ranks, from our representatives, they will only, I am convinced, out of all the views and facts that we have here, respect the views of the profession and will do nothing to harm the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its peoples and citizens. And we deal well with what we do under cover of well-being, and I would say, both the interests and objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina are being done. I'd say that those who advocate her most, most of all harm her, her interests. Thank you very much. I hope I'm understanding positive. Deputy, colleague Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19879	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. At the last session, in the context of the replica or response, or in the context of Mr. Novaković's discussion, I presented my position. Today I have the need to repeat through the discussion only in short lines what I said last time and to state my position and to refer to several discussions that enter the sphere of politicism. We must, unfortunately, also turn to this because this Parliament is used, among other things, to politicise which, in my opinion, is not like this Parliament. The Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina must resolve this issue together with the intervention of the European Union. Croatia is very important Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina is very important to Croatia that there is no need to talk about it in particular and to talk about it. But relationships must, as someone here said, be based on mutual respect, mutual respect, on the principle of reciprocity, which applies to one, applies to the other. We don't need any paternalism here in Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Republic of Croatia, so we want to be totally equal. And that's what we're right to. So the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina will have to resolve this issue by agreement with the European Union. Bosnia and Herzegovina has the right to access its sea to the open sea, by joining the open sea navigation regime and which is valid, which is prescribed by the International Convention. The Republic of Croatia has the right to connect its territory, but this link must in no way compromise the least quality of access Bosnia and Herzegovina should have towards the open sea, and that is the essence. In a situation of unsettled border, therefore, an unsigned agreement, in a situation where the Republic of Croatia unilaterally, without, despite the official stance of Bosnia and Herzegovina that opposes it, begins with construction, it is normal that we must react. Bosnia and Herzegovina is leaving, among other things, the views, after the Republic of Croatia got a loan back a few months and started building, that nothing is disputed, that it should go so, and we all know it is a big problem and then we should keep our mouth shut. No, I decided I wouldn't keep my mouth shut, and then I wrote a letter on which, as vice president, I have the right. And I expressed my personal position based on the official views of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that is my letter, that is my position, and Mr. Softić, who, in my opinion, are based on the official views of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Presidency and the House of Representatives. It doesn't go a long way here, and Mr. Arnaut finds a chance to attack the SDA, attack SDA officials, president of the SDA, that's his favorite topic, so here's to say that we from the U.S. will respond to such attacks. The U.S.A. won't shut up about that, because it's just not true. When you talk about expertise, Mr. Arnaut, then it's just enough for me to mention the April package, then it's enough for me to mention just Article 17. The law on citizenship, so let's open up a discussion and debate, but I don't want to, ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I answer now, but I won't. The BiH presidency took an official position in 2007, I am not the presidency's lawyer, but should say this, in which it clearly said that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in agreement that the Republic of Croatia is building a bridge. After that, Bosnia and Herzegovina had no need to react. The activities of the Republic of Croatia begin with the granting of loans and then react immediately to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Don't deceive the public, I've got 18 of these for the public's sake. Around the Declaration, we immediately saw, I am one of those who saw it, as Mr. Fazlić saw, that the sentence that speaks of leaving the Treaty should not stand there, that it is too high and that it is harmful. And we inside the SDA immediately said that it should be deleted, here is Mr. Fazlić. They started consulting with people who signed it to delete it and during those consultations, Mr. Arnaut, You, and these are the cameras they recorded here, along with Fazlic you go out here and you invite me out and I say this should be deleted, before you, and you have presented it as a masterpiece of you and the SBB. This is true, let the public know. It shouldn't stand in the Declaration, we said it right away, the mistake is that it even came with that text here in the House of Representatives. And you didn't do it, it was done before you, and you joined it. And please, when we talk about these things, we say the things they are. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19881	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19882	I thank the chairman. Here it is, Articles 75 and 77. The Rules of Procedure, then after the replica, this is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We now had a colleague, Džaferović, who has now admitted that he has passed through the replica, I quote him now - expressed his position. So he admitted that he then used the replica for discussion, because he held his position in the discussion. And since he's spent his replicas, he's already had two, now he's also admitted in the discussion that he's using, quote, to look back at some views, therefore, for the replica, because when you look back at some attitudes, it's a replica. The Chairman, please, please apply the Rules of Procedure and, when it comes to your deputies, so much for Mr Džaferović's expertise.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19883	Thank you very much. This Rules of Procedure do not apply to the Chairman. I'll do everything I can to work on the Rules of Procedure, but he does refer to every MP and MP. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19884	Thank you. So, he completely blames what Mr. Džaferović has now said about the release of this part of the Declaration calling for the exit of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Treaty on the Borders. Mr. Džaferović, that was the first in a letter that Adil Osmanović, minister in front of the SDA, unless there were some changes I haven't known since yesterday, as they often happen, this, the minister in front of the SDA sent it to Butković, that's a fact. Then that same sentence is found in the Declaration which, with seven signatures from the MPs of the SDA, and I assume that you all read it before you delivered it to others for signature, means it comes with seven SDA signatures to us. We read, we say no way. And then we cross this part, this is me, this is the gentlemen of the press my handwriting, or my line, I've crossed this out, you're not you. This is a fact, this is an original. Mr. Fazlić, do you know this? Did we go out Mr. 19 Džaferović, when you mentioned the date, at the door to ask me to get this out, Mr. Fazlić said – we talked, do we want to take a step. So you said, "Don't take the checker, it's insecure, let it crash again without that part." Is that what happened? So that's true, it's facts and I have evidence, as I always have evidence when I say something, because I don't speak without proof, because then it's a codex injury. Mr. Emrić, everything you've said is right, but of those who have raised the biggest shit about this, they haven't done anything, seven years of Bosniak presidency member Mr. Zvizdić and Osmanović for almost three years. On the contrary, from Mr. Osmanović I get totally wrong answers, the man calls, calls for a retreat. etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you, I have another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19885	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19886	Thank you very much. Well, the comment is on Mr. Džaferović's discussion. You have the right to write a letter, and you wrote a letter. So I don't know how many letters are all written. So everyone has the right to write a letter and everyone has the right to put us in a situation, say, where we are today. But my discussion is in the direction why don't you call on the responsibility of those who, because of their inaction, brought us here today, we're all in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the situation we're in, and we know who's responsible for it. What has been the BiH presidency since the first time it has taken one position, what it has done afterwards in the sense that it is fighting for it, that the views that the BiH presidency has done to ensure that these views are fully respected and implemented. So, we're in this situation today because we have people who obviously are not up to the work they're doing and, obviously, who have, obviously, whose style is that and whose way is to run a policy that because of their incompetence, when they can't do the job, they drag all the institutions into it and drag the fight into it. And in a way, here, after ten years of total inaction, we are now in a situation where we are again in some position that we had when she was talking about the lawsuit against Serbia. So here today, you have to be correct and say that those who, because of their incompetence, their inaccessibility or their iniquities, are also responsible today for why we as a state are in this situation. And if we write letters and if we want to say that we are, for God's sake, the protectors of something here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we have to watch it correctly and objectively, we have to show to the end what is the real picture of the responsibilities of those who are responsible for this situation, and they didn't manage, and now they've brought us all into the situation where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19887	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, and Šefik Džaferović, do not adhere to the established agenda. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19888	Mr. Šepić, I'm not running away from responsibility, nor is anyone running away from responsibility, and that's not the subject today, and that's not the point of the agenda. The agenda is a debate over Pelješko 20 bridges and the session should be held in this direction. But since you've all come out of this, you're free to say that you've been Deputy Minister in front of the SDA since 2006, civil affairs until 2010, that you were an MP in Parliament with me since '10-14. And here, so take over the brother and you on yourself part of that responsibility, not only is Izetbegović and SDA responsible, and you were there, I think why you're running away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19889	Please stick to the agenda item and do not abuse the business provision of non-compliance with the agenda item. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19890	Well, as these letters are being sent to me and as these discussions continue, nothing is clear to me anymore. So this is where we came in, we're in a ringishpillo, and no one's reaching out to how this problem is solved. What is most difficult to accept here is to ignore Croatia, at least when it comes to this, to be denied, that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina exists. It provides them with support, if they give money for this project, and the European Union. So here I am afraid of the European Union and Zagreb view whether the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina exists, because if you ignore the decision or conclusion of the 2007 BiH presidency. Yes, I was in the Council of Ministers, too, but the 2007 decision is the BiH presidency's decision, and so far, the BiH presidency, seven years or ten after that, has no other decision, and I do not think they are capable of making an adequate decision to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests at this point in time. I don't think these letters, according to the esteemed chairman, are good letters from the U.S.A., but they're also not good letters from the HDZ. So that's not the way in this country to solve the problem. I know that there have been these discs when it comes to these barrels... but try to make another pie please, so sit down to get rid of this. So it can't be different, I said it last time, it can't be different And that's the way to solve this problem. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19891	Thank you. Representative Amir Fazlić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19892	Well, here's my correction of the wrong allegation refers to a number of times repeated facts by Mr Arnaut, who persistently potentiates the sentence that the SDA has told colleagues from the moment it was sent that we would throw out that sentence, and with the president of the club, Mr. Đonlagić, we immediately agreed to it without any problems. So that's the sentence we're going to throw out, it takes time for the SBB to reanalyze this Declaration a little bit, which is quite democratic, the colleagues came in later, signed. It's all the fact that Mr. Arnaut said because of the public, that we went out there and said -- here, if you need to delete, delete, new text, no problem, but from the very beginning, that sentence, we said that I would present it, that it would not be an integral part of the text. We have the facts here in explaining the Declaration, what is, what text of the Declaration is valid. It is true that the text, which is in the background, has been signed by 24 MPs. We had in parliamentary practice a series of declarations, a series of conclusions that went through 21 certain stages, fixed, dressed, gave up some sentences, but I never caused something this powerful to be potent, so it's not now. After all, when the whole set of sentences is better evaluated, it is one of the possibilities in the negotiations with Croatia, here, here is the one that gave up. We all aim at this Declaration, therefore, to show that together with the Republic of Croatia, we have really good relations, to try to solve this problem correctly, but we are not now making out from the Declaration who it is, from which party. After all, this is Declaration 24 MPs. Nowhere around here does it say that it's a club of one, the other or the third party... And I really wish we weren't getting any point about it anymore. We've got a declaration on the background that's around [[the speaker is warned on time]] which we will declare today along with the addition of colleague Pandurević who gave certain conclusions and a certain addition to this Declaration. [[the speaker is warned on time]] After all, fellow Arnaut, whom I highly appreciate, means, we had an explanation of face to face, means really why this much potential is not clear to me. And why so much uplifting? Here, I give up. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19893	Thank you. Non-compliance with the established agenda, MP Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19894	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I have to admit, to be honest, and I've abused this, like everyone else who's reported for correcting the wrong quote and not keeping the agenda in order to say what they wanted to say in their discussion, otherwise, I'll never get to say what I meant. Otherwise, I wasn't going to discuss it for a long time, but it's just amazing that after 20 years of some signed acts that were allowed to operate in this direction and that we have now, at this point, come to what we are now discussing. It is certain that colleague Vajzović was not sure that everything we heard today would come out, that her idea was, in fact, to get dark information about the Pelješki bridge, and that we would get this much information I do not believe she knew and that she had it in mind. But it's just amazing that we want to preserve credibility without keeping continuity. I am here asking questions about the political responsibility of all those who have participated in any way in this process in the last 20 years. It can't be seen by the arrival of someone, or by the minister or any representative, the chairman of the dom or anyone who enters this building, that life or history begins with him. Well, I guess there must be some continuity, if there was no continuity in this world, there would be chaos. I really think it would be fairest if someone were to bear political responsibility for everything that's going on here right now in this room. That after 20 years, we have a serious problem like this, and we haven't caused it, and we haven't been informed in time about all this, it's really just amazing. I want to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest in every possible way and that must be the priority of this House, but it cannot be alone enough, there must be and, as I said, the continuity of the decisions that contribute to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19895	Thank you very much. 22 I ask the representatives not to abuse the business provisions of non-compliance with the established agenda. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19896	Well, sir, I mean for Mr. Džaferović, he doesn't run away from any of his responsibilities, and I don't think anyone can escape in this country from their responsibilities, but you're not going to say that one deputy minister in the capacity of what he did has responsibility for the inaction of the BiH presidency whose responsibility is to lead foreign policy. I invite you to be a responsible man because it's the only way we can get out of this situation we're in. And my discussion went in the direction of saying that we need to put an end to a policy that, because of our unhappiness, shifts responsibility to the entire community and to the whole country, so we are dealing with what we do today. I mentioned it, which is why I mentioned the story of that defamation with the lawsuit, so today we have this. What about for the next few months, what's the next topic? I say that such an approach and such a policy principle should be stopped because it certainly brings no good to us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why one of the conclusions that I am proposing in front of the Independent bloc is that, in the direction of getting out of the situation in which we are, therefore, it is called on the BiH House of Representatives to invite the BiH Presidency to provide us with information on all the activities it has taken since 2007 when the Presidency in that composition established decisions, i.e. conclusions concerning the Pelješki bridge. You'll see there's a lot of space here, let's see that political responsibility, and we'll all learn from this. We will fight to the end for the interests of the state but the interests of the state do not, the interests of the state do not protect themselves in the way you do today, who lead the country, who are the most responsible that we are in this situation today. And well some of the colleagues here have mentioned, the people who run the SDA and the people who run HDZ, so equally in that sense, with their approach you have, you've brought us into this situation where we are, and it's our obligation to say what we think we should do that doesn't happen again and enter another phase of building the country on some different relationships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19897	The chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19898	Just a moment, we have a non-restraint agenda, a distinguished representative of Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19899	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I could replicate and talk more times about not keeping the agenda when appeals to The Hag were mentioned, Mr. Softić, but I will now refer to Mr. Šepić's presentation. I ask my colleague that his personal wars with Mr. Džaferović and us 23 all from the SDA, from which he has come out of his will, however, by his own free will, Mr. Šepić, as a longtime representative, should not hold us here, beyond the agenda, lessons about relations in the state, about whose jurisdiction, what is whose guilt. Not Mr Bakir Izetbegović is the only member of the BiH presidency in the past period, there were others. And besides, Mr. Šepić as a self-called so-called, so-called. European Affairs expert should have mentioned today, we expected him to say that Croatia has one-sided access to the Pelješke bridge, given the fact that the European Union has asked for funds without informing the official authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and without the official stance of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus bringing itself into a situation that is unnecessaryly suffering from the legal consequences of such behaviour. That's what we expected from someone who calls themselves an expert on European issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19900	Thank you. Chairman Borjana Krišto, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19901	Thank you very much. In the course of my debate, I did not touch the Declaration that was mentioned, and when it was mentioned, here, by my colleague Džaferović, so fellow Arnaut in terms of correspondence whether or not something was thrown out, I refer to their allegations, but in fact to everything that stands here in the Declaration as an act which is actually the opposite of Article 165, so I will read it. In that sense, because you're someone who keeps referring to the Rules of Procedure, I believe you've also read this provision before you sign. The act referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article shall be defined as follows, that is, Article 165(2). ( a) The declaration is an act containing a principle of opinion on important issues that the House has discussed. And now I will return to the Declaration, and just a few points – we call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union, to suspend, without delay, all actions that may have a reduction or a complete abolition of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina; we call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union to urgently engage in bilateral talks, etc.; We call on the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers not to reach bilateral solutions with the Republic of Croatia, or with the European Union, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Declaration, to take all necessary legal actions by diplomatic means, etc., etc. Furthermore, not to refer to this Declaration, I would just like to conclude that everyone who has put this signature on is, firstly, in line with the article that is listed, whether, again, it is in the interest and in line with the discussions that we have discussed here, and above all, protecting the reputation and interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And also here, colleagues have mentioned that if it were the House, let us not forget that the Parliamentary Assembly consists of two homes, regardless of these views and the Declaration, if it is in the manner that we normally adopt it in this House whether it will be the position of the official BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19902	I thank the chairman. 24 I will Ukazać you an indication of Rule 27 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, which says - the duties of the Chairman of the House worry about the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you cannot, as my chairman, transfer responsibility to worry about the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure, it is your duty. By putting this Declaration to be discussed, you have admitted that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because it is your obligation to worry about the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure. If you put her to the vote, you will further confirm that everything is fine with the Declaration. So, I remind you again of the provision of Article 27 (1) point (h) that it is your duty as chairman to worry about the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure, and it is my only right to warn if there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19903	Thank you. I just want to tell you that this Declaration is not a item of the agenda, but a proposal for signed representatives, among other things you, which is related to the item of the agenda, which is the Report on the activities of the building of the Peljega Bridge. So, this has been put in line with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, me and the members of the College will continue to work and do their utmost to ensure that the agenda points are in line with the Rules of Procedure and that they are spoken of in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Counselor, is this a breach of the Rules of Procedure again? Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19904	Thank you. A member of the Rules of Procedure, who shall specify that, if the chairman wishes to take part in the debate, he shall give his word to the next deputy and go out for the speaker. Thank you. Please stick to that in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19905	Hanka Vajazović, correcting the wrong allegations, you already had two so you have no right to correct the wrong allegations. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19906	I apologize, I have pointed out that what I intended to say in the debate that I said in the intervention of correcting the wrong allegations, or referring to non-compliance with the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19907	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate, Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 25 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, every time we take care, if someone applies for a correction of the wrong quote he has the advantage and priority in accordance with the Rules of Procedure before any debate. Here's my colleague Arnaut, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19909	No matter, I waited for Denis to get up and then I signed up, but it really doesn't matter. So you see, about what my colleague Fazlić said, I'm sorry he's not in the O.R. when I replicate. After a sentence at the request of the SBB Club was cast out, this one on the withdrawal from the Treaty, Mr Osmanović, in his discussion, when he presented the Declaration, described that there had been minor linguistic changes, quote him. So that's one shy description of what we insisted on. And then a colleague of Fazlić said today: from the very beginning, the SDA was a position to cast the sentence. I am now interested in the definition of "from the very beginning", a quote, whether the beginning after you signed the Declaration with a controversial sentence in it, is the beginning when Adil Osmanović was sent to Butković with a controversial sentence in it. I don't know what you're thinking at first. So, there's a version of the Declaration with a sentence of contention requesting withdrawal from the Treaty of Borders on the portals with your signatures without our signatures. Our signatures came only after the sentence was cast out, and you read the Declaration and signed that sentence. So, really, uh, this debate is unnecessary. Just one more thing. Why the potential? kolega Fazliću, because this Treaty is of strategic interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is dangerous to think, let alone put on paper that we will get out of this Treaty, because the Treaty was signed in the presence of 40 leaders of the world's most important countries in Sarajevo on July 30th '95. A year. One more thing, Replica Novaković. Point 11 says -- two Kostanica, Croatia and those in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the Bosnian Costa Rican as far as I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19910	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19911	Thank you. I personally belong to those political forces and to those people who have always considered and believe that all citizens and peoples in this country should have absolutely equal rights and equal obligations. However, I must say that both in the Bosnian Herzegovina frameworks and in the European frameworks, Bošnjak as a people have, in particular, two accidents that I think no one else is facing. The first is that only after World War II have again experienced genocide and with this trauma alive and facing, and the second is that they have the most indisputable political representatives. For this first fact, they are not responsible, and for this second responsible political representatives are certainly responsible. And when I say that this responsibility is responsible, to whom it is greater, to whom it is smaller, but also to the positional and opposition political parties. 26 Since I have talked about this subject several times during this debate and I want to say a few more of my proposals in terms of some final discussions on this subject, I have prepared something and I want to present it in five themes, here at the end of this debate. First, I think it is very important, and for Parliament's sake and for the sake of the public, that we also make an important distinction at this session, and it is in the next. Free communication between a coastal state and Bosnia and Herzegovina is a coastal state, so between its territorial waters and the open sea is not the same as its right and obligation to pass safely through other coastal states. So it would be good today to conclude that the first concept refers to freedom of navigation and it is much greater in scope and scope than this institution of harmless passage. Secondly, I believe that we could reach a consensus on this in the state bodies here in Parliament, which is that, before the construction of the Peljega Bridge, it should first permanently resolve the border at sea and land through a bilateral international border treaty that would eventually be ratified both in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. Third, I don't see who questioned this whole debate. I think it is necessary to establish that in an internationally-legal manner, the legal regime and the width of the future corridor that will connect Bosnia and Herzegovina's territorial waters to the open sea. The fourth thing I want to say is that as the BiH Assembly Parliamentary House of Representatives, I think it would be clear that there is an international dispute between the two coastal states, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, which share the coast of the eastern Adriatic. And that this is why I should choose the most appropriate legal and diplomatic means to resolve this dispute with, of course, an attempt to satisfy the interests of both sides and the end, I would like to say that it would be important for all MPs in the House of Representatives of the Assembly of BiH, delegates in the House of the Peoples of the Assembly of BiH and other interested parties to have the decision of the Permanent Court in The Hague in the case of Slovenia – Croatia. It's not the same case, but no doubt there are similarities, and it would be good for everyone to be thoroughly informed about it. I remind you, every coastal state should have a limitless, therefore not just a harmless passageway, and access to the open sea. That, ladies and gentlemen, is in the decision of the Permanent Court of arbitration in the case of Slovenia and Croatia. We also need to study this material. Finally, we need to repeat once again that we want the best possible relations and relations with the Republic of Croatia, that we understand and understand their needs but it is both our right and our obligation to point to our needs and our interests in this equal dialogue. And certainly if we open an honest and correct dialogue it is not impossible to reach an agreement that will be mutually acceptable for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19912	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19913	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 27 Ma, I would just like to remind this House that at the last session, when we saw the Declaration as it was in the proposal, we have sent a proposal to conclude to all the members, to all MPs in Parliament, and this proposal is the following, to remind you only of this – the House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to launch in the next 60 days, i.e. to intensify the ratification process of the State Border Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia signed in Sarajevo on 30.07.2019 and in accordance with the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. If it wasn't for that part of the text being mentioned here, which is now controversial, and not getting into those details, we certainly wouldn't have given this proposal to the House for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19914	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. A colleague of Sadik Ahmetović's had two corrections to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19915	...,one had,one had. I had a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19916	One and a half? That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19917	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19918	You had a session last week.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19919	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19920	No, I don't. We've got it on record, we've got it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19921	... So I know... spoke, had a discussion... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19922	Please be nice, be nice. I'm running a session, we've got everything on record. You can see for yourself the Secretary of the House who keeps records. In the last session, you had the wrong quote. According to all the MPs, it's the same. Here's a colleague and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19923	Thank you, Madam Chairman. If you already wanted the power of the argument, then what you said in a sentence that speaks of open sea access is missing that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be the only country on Earth's coastal globe, and there is no access to the open sea, if the situation would remain this way. So it would be the only country on the globe that has a coast without access to the open sea. So, by consulting, free approach, by consulting everyone, looking at such an example in the world, there is no such example. And examples like Bosnia have a lot, so, in terms of territorially closed on two sides of the other country, but the sea passage is completely open to that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19924	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19925	I don't know what's worse, and at this sequel and at that beginning of the session, this information that we got from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, this resolution of relations within a coalition ruling at all levels, or if there's already this ruling coalition, or whatever's going on, what's trying to do and cloud, don't look, so I'm going to try facts, read what's there and what's true, which is only legitimate and what's Bosnia and Herzegovina's position. I have to really look back on Mrs. Krišto's discussion that's trying to explain one part, and it's not explaining the other. So he talks about harmonised notes, about expert groups, and forgets to say that in these notes, such as These from the expert group meeting are beautifully written, the 5th conclusion, that BH is a side, that everything needs to be ratified simply, everything that's agreed on, when we talk about the technical aspect of a bridge that has nothing to do with what we're looking for as a state. There is no discussion at all about the conclusion of the BiH presidency which is only measurable to decide on these matters and what is only important what we get from the BiH presidency. And this is the position to be followed by the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where it is said finely that the debate on the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge through the territorial waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina, members of the BiH Presidency, concluded that this issue was raised at a session of the Interstate Council for Co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia in Zagreb, and then bilateral contact with Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader during his visit to Sarajevo, with the requirement to establish a territorial border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. The BiH presidency feels it is not useful to take any unilateral acts until the border at sea is established under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. The BiH presidency is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the situation and provide full information on all the activities of the Council of Ministers and individual ministries so far with a proposal for concrete measures. President Nebojša Radmanović. Sarajevo, 27.06.2007. So that's Bosnia and Herzegovina's attitude and nothing else. Then you say yourself that letters and what is sent is not a constitutional category, that not everyone can talk about it, that not everyone can send and give their opinions, and then you can do the same. So, not only You, but Mr Džaferović and the ministers from the Council of Ministers give views that are, in some cases, contrary to the BiH presidency's position, meaning the only official stance of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After what was happening, you also mention the second note of the section, i.e. The expert group's report on the negotiations on the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge, where it also says in this report – the Bosnianherzegovina expert group had no mandate to discuss other aspects of the application of the Convention on the Law of the Sea which we consider extremely important. As Croatia took over the former SFRY line by its maritime law, thus neglecting the existence of the territorial sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it closed the sea to its internal sea waters, which is, in the view of this task force, opposed to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. In this way, the expert group considers that Bosnia and Herzegovina's right to a safe passage is at stake, as this right applies only to the passage of the territorial sea, not to the internal sea waters. According to the mandate, the section considered this right only in relation to the harmless passage under the bridge, which is only one part of the waterway between the open sea and the territorial sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, another conclusion. ... You accept this information in part, but when you need to get to the point of that information, you skip it, as well as the media that you control. Then the stories that nothing was happening, it was happening because Croatia was aware of the problem it had. And it doesn't begin the ministry's work, when we talk about the Ministry of Communications and Transport, by the arrival of the Minister of Juska. You also have acts and meetings of Minister Damir Hadžić, who held with the Croatian minister and other ministers from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you also have an act by then Foreign Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija, who also sought certain things and who had bilateral meetings on the topic of the Peljega Bridge. And in the past government of the Republic of Croatia there were certain indications that Croatia would go towards solving the problem. So Minister Slavko Matanović, after his meeting in Zagreb with Minister Hajdaš Dončić, as it does not begin there Butković, means he agreed to form a working group. Names from Bosnia and Herzegovina have been proposed, but no names have ever come from Croatia. And for all of this, I have referred a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, which I have no response to after 40-50 days, to hear who was meeting after Slavko Matanović's shift with ministers from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who promised what he promised at those meetings, who agreed to build the Pelješko Bridge, who gave any guarantees on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because the only position Bosnia and Herzegovina has on this issue is the BiH presidency's position and it is the only one that is valid. Everything else is stories for small children, everything else is politics that you are entering in the election year, which you are trying to work for in the election year, rather than protecting the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that you finally realize that you are not sitting at the head of the Croatian Parliament, but at the head of the House of Representatives in the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19926	Thank you very much. Representative Amir Fazlić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19927	I applied for the discussion first, so I was warned that I had discussed it last time, but here, I'll try to correct myself. This guilty allegation, I would like to clarify one claim by the president of the SBB Club whether they remain with this proposal of theirs, given that they have made here a claim that the proposal has arisen as a result of the wrong sentence,... I will no longer explain who is what, how it has crossed and how it, means that we would know on the break to take a stand. In our view, the conclusion is very good, so whether you stay at this conclusion, given that these disputed sentences are no longer in the Declaration document. And I'd like you to just explain it to us, and the rest I wouldn't have thought about who crossed what. I wasn't looking at who crossed it, but I was verbally explaining and underlining what it was, and I talked to the president of the SBB Club, here it is here... and point. Thank you, 30.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19928	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19929	Thank you, Madam Chairman. And, uh, you're exactly the replica of the Honorable Chairman. Before we finish the debate on this agenda point, I would ask you for another clarification, because you said in the discussion that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made a request and that Croatia has met those requirements. I am particularly interested in which institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made demands, who has met and when is it either agreed or signed, this one, and with which institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Since these are written acts, I would ask you to deliver them in writing. And for that reason, I'm asking for a 15-minute break until you're done with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19930	Are you looking for a break on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19931	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19932	I'm taking a 15-minute break. I'm asking the MPs to proceed with the session. At this point, we have a quorum. Representative, please educate the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19934	I thank you for your word. I have explained the request for a break to ask you to convince us that, that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have made certain requests to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, that this is agreed and, behold, I would ask you, if you are able to answer this question of mine, that is to say, I asked you to deliver in writing the texts that were included in the course of the debate that we were talking about earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19935	Thank you. I'm asking the MPs if they don't have the Rules of Procedure to be delivered to them. And in this case, we find that you have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which means that correcting the wrong allegations may require a word to correct, in his opinion, a false statement which may be the reason for 31 misunderstandings or which requires an explanation. The President of the House gave him his word after the representative whose statement caused the need for a plea ended his presentation. Correction of the wrong quote, i.e. an explanation may take up to two minutes and may not be used more than twice for one item of the agenda. So, you've abused, there's no right for any representative to ask someone or to demand an answer either in your mouth, or in writing. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, the correction of the wrong quote you already had, so you don't. Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19936	I thank the chairman. This answer would be Mr. Fazlić's question. So, the SBB club submitted a proposal for a conclusion before the very agenda. So that's the answer to the Declaration, so before it was deleted from the Declaration, that part of the sentence in Article 4 that says whether or not it was controversial to cut short. However, and we are now staying at the conclusion, it is explicitly requested, we remain on the proposal of the conclusion that the SBB has set for the simple reason why this conclusion defines itself, this international contract between Mr Izetbegović and Mr Tuđman. So, we want this conclusion to go further into debate, while this Declaration abolishes that part of the sentence, but it does not oblige us to make this clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19937	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19938	Well, I can tell you that you didn't convince me of the explanation you gave. You should have answered the asked question, but here, the Independent bloc will until the final decision is made, which is until the vote, propose a conclusion to postpone the statement on item 7 of the agenda until lawmakers in writing receive the text of the request from the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Here, let me not explain any further, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19939	Thank you. With this, we exhausted the debate on item seven of the agenda. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Consideration of Nikola Lovrinović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15) I submit a parliamentary initiative to include the agendas of the next meetings of the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, entitled: Declaration of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on Article 7(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament", issue: 01-50-11508/17, since 16/06.2017. 32 The House College has appointed a Joint Commission for European Integration responsible for considering this initiative. Proposer Nikola Lovrinović delivered the addition of the materials for the initiative on 29.06.2017. The Joint Committee provided the Information on the initiative on 26.07.2017. The Commission did not declare any initiative, nor did the proposed conclusions of the applicant. At the last session, we delayed the debate on the initiative. Representative Nikola Lovrinović proposed the adoption of two conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19941	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I don't think there's any need to take up precious time. I hope you all remember the debate from last session, and I hope you know that this is about the Rules of Procedure, so, the PSC, the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, whose part we are, our delegation, and how for over a year and more, perhaps two now almost, uh, we have no agreement on, first of all, Article 7, I have nothing else, and there is no need, unless the College thinks we need something special to elaborate today, but to repeat that conclusion. I only then at that session in 50, expressed regret that it did not go to the Constitutional Court, perhaps to hear their opinion, but here is the College's return to the agenda. So, today we have nothing left to say but my conclusions and I don't know if there's any need to repeat them, you have them. Now all it has to do is correct, so at point 8, today's agenda with the 51st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I suggest these two conclusions in the text that I hope you have in the material or, behold, my colleague Škaljić suggests that I read it anyway, so here, I'll just read them: 1. The House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH accepts Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly and the European Parliament, which reads as follows: – On the proposal of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association of the Recommendations of the Committee, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers, the Council of Stabilisation and Association and the Council of the European Union and the European Commission; – The proposal sets out a recommendation by the Bureau of Consensus; – Any member of the Bureau before a final vote on the recommendations of the Committee may request a break for the purpose of consent; – Amendments to the proposal and the final text shall be considered adopted if they receive two-thirds support from the members of the European Parliament's delegation and two-thirds support of members of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation of BiH. 2. The House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives is in charge of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association to hold a session of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association and to adopt the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the positions adopted at the meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Parliament. 33 Of course, this second conclusion is conditioned by the way of voting on the first, for if the first conclusion does not pass, then the second conclusion is pointless, so I suggest that we make a separate statement, and in the process, if this first conclusion does not pass, then I have nothing against it but to plead on the other then, because there is no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19942	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19943	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues. I have a need to say a few words about this initiative, although it is proposed today only to be placed on the agenda, but if we look at the essence and the real reason why it is sought, why one such initiative is actually run, then what my colleague Lovrinović said is an inability... or voting on the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee. What is the most controversial actually, which is why we couldn't do more than a year, now in December will be two years, as I think for the first time, and the only time has been met by the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, that is, the delegation of the European Parliament and the delegation of our Parliament is the way of voting and deciding which should be regulated by that Rules of Procedure. And all the problems arise when we, as a Delagacija of this Parliament, have proposed a way, i.e. a modus, how it will be decided by this Parliamentary Committee, where we wanted to precisely determine how, that is, not to say, the European Parliament's delegation will decide how it decides in the European Parliament, but we have focused on how our delegation will decide, in a way that, when we adopt our position, we will first agree our position in the Delegation, and only then to synchronise together with the European Parliament's delegation. And there was, of course, a major disturbance made by Mr. Tonino Picula, who is the head of the European Parliament delegation who said... We have all agreed in our delegation that this should be put in place as one of the items in the Rules of Procedure on the way of decision and, of course, together with the European Parliament's delegation in the end to come to a common position. On that occasion, Mr Picula said that he could not accept that the Rules of Procedure cite ethnic decision-making methods. Whether he has well defined it, formulated it, or not, I will not go into it, but he is well and accurately informed that we have called in the way of decision known in the Rules of Procedure and in the home of both Parliament. So, we have proposed nothing new, but we have called on the Rules of Procedure which regulates decision in both homes and commissions, and in the other bodies of this Parliamentary Assembly. To him it was unacceptable and then this way, therefore, deciding to decide the two-thirds majority of the members present is actually a proposal from Mr. Tonin Picula. He suggested it and forwarded it to our head of delegation and it came to us, so it's now required as an official position. What do I mean? If this House of Representatives accepts, or may vote to demand that such an item exists in the Rules of Procedure, it will clearly derivate the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure by which it is decided in this House of Representatives. So, when I say to me, I speak for myself and for Mr Radmanović, who is also in front of the House of the Peoples, and I think at first there was that attitude and colleague from the SDS, Mrs Pandurević and Mr Ognjen Tadić, that we must, in our Parliament, respect the decision-making mode as regulated by our Rules of Procedure. This is not acceptable to Mr Picula and, of course, we are now in a situation of whether we will succumb to that request, because it is explicit that if 34 cannot be accepted, the Rules of Procedure on the Parliamentary Committee cannot be voted upon, and that means that the Parliamentary Committee cannot work without the Rules of Procedure. Someone may say that these recommendations to be voted on by this Rules of Procedure on the Parliamentary Committee are not so important that we now have too much to argue about. Well, it's not that they don't matter. If we should all be in agreement with this Parliamentary Committee on these recommendations that it will pass on, which are actually our possible conclusions, then it is important that everyone in this Parliamentary Committee is in agreement. I would once again like to underline and stress, and I will conclude, that our delegation, originally, had an even position, or a coherent position, that, that we would agree on the recommendations and conclusions in that Committee before, and when we agree, we would agree with the delegation and carry them out as joint recommendations and opinions of the Stabilisation and Association Committee. And once again I say, there's all this confusion and confusion made by Mr. Tonino Picula who said it was unacceptable and we are now where we are. Because we did not bring the Rules of Procedure, we could not meet, our Delegation met, as you are mentioned here in the materials, 10 or 11 times we sat down, talked about it, agreed, we could not agree, because simply, for Mr Radmanović and for me, it means us as members of that delegation, or the SNSD Committee, it is unacceptable to introduce a new way. This would be a new way of voting in that committee, to vote, that, therefore, the recommendations bring a two-thirds majority without taking care of who is in the two-thirds majority. There are 12 of us in that delegation, of those 12 are four from Republika Srpska, and eight are from the Federation. It is theoretically possible that eight of all members from the Federation vote something and say it is legitimate, and we from Republika Srpska if we think it is wrong we will be overvoted and it will be considered legitimate because some two-thirds majority voted it. So, Parliament is here in front of the situation whether it will confirm that we are still, therefore, in that the Committee must work, our delegation should work according to the current provisions of our Rules of Procedure, as we do in all bodies and in this Parliament, or we will comply with Mr Tonine Picul's proposal, which defacto means introducing a new way of deciding on that Committee. And what it's going to come on and how it's going to come out in the end, that's what we're just gonna see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19944	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19945	Thank you. So, in a way, first of all, just to complete Mrs. Marković. So, I'm the chairman or co-chair of the POSP. So, we've worked very correctly so far, I think we can all confirm, and we've never voted on anything, at least on the Committee when we are. We should be distinguished as the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly and us as a delegation. As a delegation, I am the only one who would like to add some information that Mrs Marković did not say in her performance, and I did not think, however, here it is necessary. So, I chair almost, here's two years, or I co-chair the POSP, and there's no point in us getting exhausted for two years, and I can't let that happen anymore as co-chair or chair of our delegation not to solve Article 7, and this is how I read it. Our delegation has its Rules of Procedure, we have agreed, Mrs Marković, therefore, and she is sitting in the breaks and we are not prohibited at all, in the preparations for the POSP vote. We have our Rules of Procedure and it is the same as the Rules of Procedure of the Committee when we prepare for the way we vote in the PSC. Mr. Picula is not the only 35 and exclusive culprit, although it is his position, and it is not his position but probably a member of the PSC from his delegation and they cannot accept it. So the only way to get out of this was, according to him, to propose a two-thirds way of voting from those present, and your presence is usually about half of the total membership, that's what the practice has shown, because he said it's also an exception to their rule. So they did not allow any delegation, not in any accession procedure to the European Union, but only Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it is two-thirds of the decision. So now we should make the same concession, whether or not we decide the Dom. On the other hand, to be honest and honest, I have Deputy Mr. Ognjen Tadić, and Deputy Ms. Kapetanović, therefore, no matter how much Picula created about it, as you said, I think Mr. Tadić did. But right now, we can't talk about defending our principles, and they're giving up their principles. So you just need to know that. Now, the House will be declared what will be said. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I had no others, but to offer what I offered,...I chaired as a representative, so this is not the Commission's position, it's a fact, it's the truth. If the House declares itself, this will be Article 7. Rules of Procedure, if not, and both homes of course, then we don't know what to do next.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19946	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19947	I want to say very clearly that Mr. Tonino Picula in this case has not made any confusion. It is not the European Union's goal to become Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the other way around. Bosnia and Herzegovina's goal is to become part of the European Union, and that is the essence. So we must look alike in all spheres, in all areas, including this Committee, to the European Union, and it would not be logical for that to be the other way around. And finally, let's not forget that one of the two, a consensus among us, has come to this, and this strategic goal is for Bosnia and Herzegovina to become both a member of the European Union and a member of the NATO alliance. We have an obligation to work on it, not to lecture the European Union and introduce rules that are not in force anywhere. So we must adapt to European standards, European standards, and not demand that our standards apply to the European Union. We can do that, but we will be isolated island in Europe if we continue with such a policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19948	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19949	Part of what I was about to say was already said by a respected colleague named Denis. In total practice, we need to move towards the European Union, not the European Union towards us. It's too complex a mechanism to adjust to us. It is a mechanism that has a regular way of working and will certainly not allow what is up and in practice has proved to be well destructive because somewhere out there some Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to apply some rules that are considered undivided, and everyone knows that, regardless of the overall insistence, in the whole world, the monstrosity, the abnormal. And I hope we finally understand that. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19950	Thank you. Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19951	Well, the first correction of the wrong quote in the address of Mr. Bećirević, a colleague who said that we here should not lecture the European Union and introduce rules that do not apply anywhere. Neither here who lectures the European Union nor introduces rules that apply nowhere. I was talking about the rules that apply in our Rules of Procedure, which is still valid. If someone, if you think that this is not valid, then say it, or if you think you need to ignore the documents and rules from your own country with what is outside your country, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is still outside the European Union and not even close to it, then you need to say what is more important to you in this situation. No Niko here has asked for anything but respect for what is valid and what is in force in this House, and nothing more than that. If you think that Mr. Tonino Picula is a European Parliamentarian and that he came here with some, let's say, superior positions compared to us, because he was acting like one, that's another story. Maybe that's how you feel it. I don't see it that way. When he comes to the Parliamentary Committee, we are all equal MPs and parliamentarians and everyone represents interests from the position he comes from, we from Bosnia and Herzegovina, he from the position he comes from. So here they're trying under the flossulas that, with these findings and the definition that it's said that it's now aman for nothing, if it's said by Tonino Picula that it's more important and more difficult now, it has more weight than the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. So at the previous point, when we talked about the Peljesk Bridge, how was it not a story to go towards the European Union? You say now – do not go past the European Union, but we are going towards the European Union. Well, here, and that's the story about the European Union, Croatia is a member of the European Union, which wasn't the story of going and giving in, giving in, giving in, simply We put it down in front of Croatia and we say - it is the European Union, we must respect it, it is required by the European Union. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The country does what it does, asks for a loan from the European Union, does a lot of work, but there's no need to talk about going towards the European Union, and here when it's looking for SNSD in particular, it means when we insist, then the problem is, then it should go towards it. I mean, don't do that demagogy. Leave it alone. You should vote to determine whether you respect the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament or whether you think you should step on it and comply with what the European delegation and Tonino Picula are looking for. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19952	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirević, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19953	Well, I'm afraid I'm not even quite understood the way it was supposed to be, and so I'm going to do it again very briefly. So we in all spheres and in all areas must adapt to the European Union. And it's known how other countries have done it, and it's known how our neighbors do it, and we can't be any exception here. We should stick to some of our rules, in this case it's not any rule, but one interpretation of the Rules of Procedure with which I and many MPs here agree that we can interpret it in such a way. But, then, don't insist on some rules and we want to join the European Union. We must adapt to European rules. If we had strictly adapted to our rules, today we would have transported in this country 37 by ancient means of transport because we wouldn't have a registration plate for motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19954	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19955	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Correction works, I didn't experience Mr. Tonin Picula's performance that way. We need to be politically correct towards Mr. Picula, it wasn't just his attitude, it was the attitude of their entire delegation, and I think he did everything he could and that he had exhausted all the possibilities of agreeing and talking with us and their coming, every one of them coming, and our communication with them was really on track to finding a good solution. We need to be correct and tell the truth. I don't think that this is about running down the Rules of Procedure, as the colleague said, nor, behold, I personally have no real problem why these SNSD proposals, nor for a living head absolutely, I personally don't have a real problem with that. But I want to say that I have a problem with the eternal fear of voting that exists with us inside Bosnia and Herzegovina between the three peoples and that's what worries me. It is not Bosnia and Herzegovina in the situation, and we are clearly told by Mr Picula and all the other members of the Committee, just as Mr Lovrinović and Mr Bećirović said, we are not in a situation to set our own conditions, but we must accept the terms of the European Union. And we were then clearly told that Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country that has really come out to meet, as Mr. Lovrinović said, to make some compromise, here, which would be on the lookout for colleagues from Republika Srpska. So, it wouldn't be politically correct in a situation where we really have a good composition of the delegation headed by Mr. Picula, it wouldn't be a good idea to send such a message from here we need to agree and we need to understand that this fear of revote must finally cease once. We must accept the terms of the European Union if we want to be its member, simply play by those rules, and that is simply the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19956	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19957	It is now not the correcting of the wrong quote, but rather the replica of Mrs Nermina Kapetanović's exposure. Well, what you said would drink water if we were really in one reality and reality, to respect the rules and to know here a certain order of things, how it works, how it comes to certain attitudes. If I didn't go back and forth a lot, here's just today's example at the previous agenda point we saw that here, Malten, almost nobody respects anyone. The letter can also be sent by this and that side, that Parliament's conclusions are interpreted as being interpreted as one conclusion, and the other two, Parliament, ignores, because the one is only responding to it and then represents it as the position of this Parliament. We've seen this today, so there's not a full two hours as we've seen that example. We have seen this, for example, that he can perform attitudes here and represent it as an attitude or a particular institution, for example. The Council of Ministers, to say 38, last year the Coordination Mechanism was agreed and set up at a Council of Ministers meeting, after which it turned out not to be. And then the chairman says -- well, it was a phone session, and after a month or two, they really have to call on the composition of the people who are supposed to establish the Coordination Mechanism, and previously it's all presented to the Council of Ministers. Not to go to the Bureau now where one member of the Bureau writes a speech that suits him and goes to the Security Council and presents it as the stance of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other two members of the presidency have nothing to do with it and absolutely disagree with that view. So, to say no more examples, there are many in this country. And what I'm talking about isn't any fear of voting, it's just a requirement to respect what's in force. If the approach is to introduce a new way of voting in that Committee, and the two-thirds majority is without any indication who participates in that majority, who must be represented, it is a brand-new principle of voting in relation to what the Rules of Procedure says. If you think it can be done in this House, here you go and do it, but Mr. Radmanović and I will certainly not work under these conditions on that Committee. The other two members of the Republika Srpska delegation will have to determine according to this, but, therefore, we will certainly not work in a way that introduces a new [[the speaker is warned on time]] the voting system, and that's how it's done. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19958	Thank you. Nermina Kapetanović, not keeping the established agenda. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19959	Mrs. Marković, you have in most of your discussion now, the replica, i.e. the corrections of the wrong allegation, referred to the work of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the discussion of the Pelješa Bridge, which now has nothing directly to do with what we are talking about. You know that I was with Mr. Lovrinović and Mr. Tadić, that we were trying to find ways, and Mr. Genjac was also involved in this, we tried to find ways. memojte, don't really, uh, tie up today's discussion and at all things related to the Presidency, the work of the Council of Ministers and the current situation that is happening here in Parliament right now, with something that we have to solve here. I repeat again – Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be the only candidate country waiting for candidate status in the European Union, which will impose its conditions on the European Union. Mr Picula made it clear that such a case has never occurred before, from the very beginning of the establishment of the European Union to the day of today, that no country has laid down its own rules of procedure. The fact that we are so complicated by the constitutional solution of the states, indeed, here I think, precisely because they went out with someone, with some compromise solutions, and we really tried to do everything on our part, to get one deal, and finally to start that Committee doing the right thing and to get the trust of the European Union. I'm afraid we lost him, at least when it comes to the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilization and Association.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19960	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19961	Thank you. I'm trying to figure things out, but I'm not doing it at all. Article 121. The SAA – this is the establishment of a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. It will be a forum in which members of the Parliamentary Assembly and the European Parliament will meet and exchange views. The committee will meet in the time intervals that I have determined. The Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association consists of members of the European Parliament, on the one hand, and members of the Parlamenary Assembly on the other. The Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. So, the Parliamentary Committee brings its Rules of Procedure, it is not an act of the European Parliament in principle to take or leave. I must say, I'm mostly surprised at my colleagues from the Bosniak people's ranks here. It is not about revote, here, Republika Srpska or representatives of the Serb people. It may happen to you distinguished colleagues in the same situation. Do you know who's safest here and who can't happen? In this case, colleagues representing Croatian political parties. Because they will always have the protection of that part of the European Parliament's most feared delegation, led by Mr Picula. Are you ready to be overvoted? Yes, here, the Peljesac bridge, Srbin and Hrvat agree nicely to go to the bridge, that it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest to discuss it, and the Stabilisation and Association Committee adopts recommendations. Are you ready for that? I think you need to think a little bit better about it and that the interest of all of us here is that such a Rules of Procedure and this proposal proposed by Mr. Picula is not in the interest of anyone here. Our highest interest is that we here reach consensus ourselves and agree and come together to the European Union with what really are the views of this country, and the position of this country can be what all its peoples and its citizens agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19962	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19963	I thank the chairman. Maybe more for clarification, so didn't Mr. Bosić and the SDA agree to support this Declaration around the Peljega Bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19964	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19965	I thank the chairman. Indeed, although I am not a member of the Committee mentioned, nor of the Commission mentioned, I am a little confused, so I would appreciate it from my colleagues from the SNSD, or from my colleague Lovrinović, to get things back to square one. So, in the last month, we at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, by members and members of the SNSD, have been given resignations to all parliamentary committees in both homes, both permanent and joint, so it is not clear to me now whether the mentioned gentlemen have only given resignations to 40 working bodies that involve working in the Parliamentary Assembly, recently unpaid, thank Bog, the work that has sometimes, until, until, until, until, until the SBB has launched, did the SBB start, to use the Arnaut not to report, so that it does not mention that it has changed, until it has stopped paying, or has SNSD remained on boards, working bodies outside Bosnia and Herzegovina that, do they involve a tour of the world? Well, now I'm interested, if they are in favour, in fact, of what we've heard, of non-proclaiming, i.e., colleague Lovrinović, at this point, that is, he needed the initiative, like all other committee chairmans, to find a solution, i.e. to raise the question of what we are going to do with these missing members, who have resigned from working in parliamentary bodies, but their resignations should then absolutely involve working on committees and working in groups of friendships, delegations that involve representation and participation in the work, which they mean, is the representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19966	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19967	...an esteemed colleague of Bosić who is not here. I'm surprised Mr. Arnaut you don't know, so you're an expert with ears everywhere and you love listening in the halls like that. Mr. Bosić hasn't made a deal with anyone. We only have an agreement within our club to propose what we suggested, and if the others will support, we are you Democrats, no one dictates to us, so neither Mr. Bosić nor our President, Bovedarica. We're making arrangements inside our club because we think we're grown and mature people. We don't need anyone to call us and tell us what we're gonna support and what we're not gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19968	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19969	I want to say to my koleginica, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Political parties within parliaments have different opportunities to act politically. One way is that often MPs do not attend parliament meetings at all, to go out, to fight, to not know what they are not doing and not to participate in working bodies. The SNSD has decided to step out of the working bodies because it is not natural for all commissions to carry the greatest burden of work, and that we are an opposition party, it is not appropriate. Some working bodies won't be able to work at all because all members of the SNSD are in them, and these are the most prominent working bodies. Wherever it took little knowledge and skill, they were representatives of the SNSD, not the Alliance for Change that was required to change, the way they became power. It's an internal plan, so we don't want to be key carriers, I'm supposed to be reading materials, and my colleague is playing on the phone. That's not the way it is. The one who's acting in power must bear the burden of the authority he carries on himself. That's the thing that's tied to... As for the outside, we will never allow anyone else to represent our political views outside the country. So, as far as working bodies, or delegations and groups of friendships where I'm not... I'm a member of a group of friendships never called me to speak a word, to do anything on 41 of that plan, so in that case we'll be representing opinions, political opinions of the SNSD. And that's why I'm asking you not to talk about it, it's our right to do it, and no one can take it away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19970	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19971	Dear counterpart Majkić, you have sworn here in December 2014 that you will work under the Constitution and respect the Constitution and laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that you will work under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which absolutely implies that you will justify your salary of 6,000 plus marks here in this place. This means absolutely that you should participate, both in the session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in the joint commissions and permanent commissions. However, you are, is it, like your political right to decide, and unfortunately no one, I appeal, here, to the ruling, or to the College who is the only one able to bring it to the end, to launch the question of the Code in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and to pass a law on working in the Parliamentary Assembly which would imply that every time Mr Džaferović is chaired by you and you, as you say, leave the session politically, that 20% of your salary is denied, so I am convinced that you will forget about all the activities that Mr Džaferović allegedly had, which I am now not, because it is not the point of the agenda, to enter. The biggest burden says SNSD endures because you read, and we don't read as others, is the insult of Mrs. Majkić, who can also go through the code, because you then interpret that you, how do you know if someone is reading or not reading and whether who read it might be his political right not to absolutely declare himself, or to participate in the debate, so... And when you mention the weight, or how measurable it is, Mrs. Majkić, it is measurable in a way that you take out 6 000 KM from 5, plus when you retire 30,000 KM plus, and it is measurable for Mrs. Majkić, i.e. for your troubles, i.e. for not being in the working bodies, you charge it well while the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are starving.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19972	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19973	Thank you very much. Here, and me on this, maybe it's a chance for some things to work out. How can someone in this House say we decided not to participate in the work of permanent working bodies? Now I'm in a dilemma about whether it's in the job description. So, as is the obligation to attend meetings of the House of Representatives or of the House of Peoples, it is also mandatory to work in working bodies, in permanent working bodies. How can someone say I don't want it anymore? It kind of comes to me as a merchant to come to the store and says I'll be at the counter but I won't provide services, I won't sell. I mean, it just might be high time to clear up whether it's an obligation or not, thank you. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19974	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19975	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I don't know what this debate is motivated by. The SNSD decided not to participate in the work of the Commission and to inform the College of the House of Representatives in accordance with the positions of the Party's authorities and the Club's position. It's our attitude that we won't change. When it comes to delegations, Ms. Majkić was very clear, we are absolutely clear who and how much costs for the citizens of this country are real and we are ready, and we appeal to those who can make it an analysis and deliver it to Parliament as long as it travels, what are the costs, etc. To make Mrs. Majkić that she is the only one, as if she is the only one here who receives a salary and benefits, in accordance with the positive regulations, acts that allow MPs to have some privileges, is at least correct, and I am really asking you not to open that story who, in which way and how she uses the privileges. First of all, this is not a part of the agenda. You won't be able to discipline the SDSD in any way, we have different political views, policies of attitudes, and one of the political views is that we don't participate in the work of committees. Then when party authorities bring different views about working in some other bodies, you will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be properly informed of our political position by all you dear colleagues. We have not often commented on the views of some political parties, not at least here in Parliament, we are the political views of some other content, but... we really haven't, and I really appeal to you, as far as possible, not to do so... when it comes to SNSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19976	Thank you. I will repeat once again that I am asking all MPs, if they do not have, we will share the Rules of Procedure, so that we will adhere to the agenda at each point, so there will be fewer replicas, of course unfounded, unargumented, etc., especially those that have nothing to do with the agenda points. Let's move on with the debate. Representative Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19977	I thank the chairman. And I was surprised how we suddenly began to discuss the participation of committees, members of delegations, because this is, I don't know how we came to this, given that the agenda point is quite different. I also think it's a ligitive right for someone to make that decision. The fact that we haven't regulated it, and it needs... from pay and income, that we haven't regulated that it has consequences on pay, it's a whole other thing. We didn't do it, and it's now, whether we need it or not, and that's another thing, but at this point it's legitimate that you don't work, that you work. What I think my colleagues were supposed to do - resign to the House because the Dom chose them, not the College that's holding it out there right now in a drawer, uh,... A home that needs to be declared. But, well, that doesn't matter now. 43 I am going back to this key question that my colleague Lovrinović gave in his initiative. First of all, I did not find a foothold in the Rules of Procedure that we could speak of this as a House, and especially I did not find a foothold so that we could make any commitment when we came forward. I'm asking the practical question here, here's how we're going to adopt everything like this -- how we're going to adopt the Rules of Procedure on the Committee. Be careful, before we change, we adopt the Rules of Procedure to vote like this, in which way we adopt this Rules of Procedure. I guess we'll adopt it in a way that everyone respects their own rules. And then we're back to square one again. I therefore think that this Committee, or members of this Committee, should make decisions in the way they are made in this Parliament. And it's not to correct my colleague Marković, and she said it herself, it's not something that SNSD requires, as far as I understand it, that's what my colleague Tadić was looking for. So that was a bit broader than any political party's attitude. And, I think, be careful what this sentence reads – Amendments to the proposal recommendations and final text recommendations are considered adopted if they receive two-thirds support, I will read what it says, the present members of the European Parliament's delegation and the two-thirds support of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation. I really do not understand that it could not stand two-thirds of the support of present members of the European Parliament's delegation and support or support, as it says here, members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation, in the way we decide. What is the problem with the European Parliament? I don't see what the problem is, unless they want to make a problem. We don't change their rules, nor do we intend to change them. I think it would have been better if this problem had been solved, and I realize that it could probably not have come this far, that it could have been solved right at the level of that committee. Here, I have asked the practical question that I am asking again and which, in my opinion, is crucial – how will the Committee vote the Rules of Procedure in which it writes what my colleague has proposed? Whether the two-thirds majority or otherwise, or someone will impose a vote on the Committee on how to vote on the Rules of Procedure. So it's simply not possible that it's different than what we do in Parliament, and I don't see that that's a problem for anyone. We would agree, we have a consensus on these issues, and I don't think it would be a problem to even agree on this, and I don't see what that's like for our European Parliament colleagues to agree in our own way and to go with a unique attitude in the way this Rules of Procedure does. And maybe it would be good if we didn't have a debate about this at all today, because just out of this and this way we're not going to go out with this solution, because this isn't a solution, it's not a practical solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19978	Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19979	Thank you. First I propose to this body to amend the Rules of Procedure to erase the Institute of Discussion, he is offended by the usurpation of these three principles next. If you want to discuss this Parliament then you should be aware that you will be on..., because everyone else will skip you by usurping what is not a discussion and by discussing. We must say that we have begun to turn into bureaucrats who forget the essence of our roles. Bosnia and Herzegovina and European institutes have one common body... This delegation, and it doesn't work. [[You don't understand.]] It does not work because we have put the periphery in essence and we have said that co-operation between the two parliaments through a common body has as a condition a Rules of Procedure, an internal or an auxiliary legal act. And on our part and by our colleagues in the European Parliament, I think that's where the mistake was made, and we need to talk. The fact that this body is responsible for analysing, on behalf of the two parliaments, the accession process and making recommendations, the fact that the body is not meeting, we had one founding session and never again, which in its position and role has the character of the recommendations. These recommendations cannot get 44 of their capacity unless adopted on the principles of how parliaments, the European Union Parliament and the BiH Parliament work. Therefore, I believe that there is an urgent need to continue the session of this body, not to put the Rules of Procedure in the essence of its role, we do not have to make decisions, nor can we make decisions that oblige anyone. We have to follow the rules of our parliaments, and we need to talk about the common body. We are doing extensive damage to Bosnia and Herzegovina and relations because we have completely excluded the official co-operation of the two parliaments in the part where we are equal. That is why I call on us here and this part of our second part of the European Parliament to schedule a session for October and to speak openly in forums, not to exchange with letters and through administration information about what may be and cannot be. Meeting the delegation, the work of the delegation is imperative, and the Rules of Procedure is something we should strive to find the best solutions through discussions and meetings. What we conclude can do no harm unless the parliaments accept it. And we, in that part that we have established here, have the situation that the Joint Commission on European Integration is at the same time and the Delegations, and that we here are doing by the principles that have been established in our Parliament, and so far we have not had any leaps in this regard. I appreciate the tenacity and agility of President Lovrinović in this body and support him. You can talk about the capacitation of what he suggested but I understand it as one way to find a way out. At this point, I call on the chairman of this joint body, Picula and Mr. Lovrinović, to schedule the session in October and this session to be in Sarajevo.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19980	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to MP Lovrinović for correcting the wrong allegation, I would like to meet the honourable representatives and MPs that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, together with certain ministers, has a meeting of the BiH presidency at 14 o'clock. We have been asked even earlier in the below, it was difficult to find a term for the session, the Aministrative Commission is scheduled at 15 hours, we have in some way made a promise that we will make sure that if the session does not end until 15 hours that we will then take a break from an hour in order for the Administrative Commission to be able to maintain itself. So, here, let's just keep everyone thinking about how we're going to define ourselves about further work, here, in particular somehow at the points that follow us. Here you are, MP Nikola Lovrinović
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19981	Thank you. Well, I'd like to start at the end, or the last speaker, Mr. Novaković, actually from Mr. Škaljić. So, first of all, the request for a meeting without a Rules of Procedure was and I was surprised, therefore, as a member of the Committee, that is why colleagues from the European Parliament do not accept the session without the adopted Rules of Procedure. They think it's a piece of work, they're looking for a Rules of Procedure, and that's the story, so they insist on the Rules of Procedure. We can tell them again, there's no problem with me. So, we've been doing this for about two years, and you said it yourself, we held one session. And, therefore, the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association, we..., because the Joint Committee he is not the committee of this House and this Parliament, but also theirs. So it's a joint committee that needs to work on the Rules of Procedure that are common fortification, as Mr. Novaković was saying. So they did not accept any other story except for the half majority of the decision-making by the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. Finally, after our extraordinary efforts, we are required to respect our Rules of Procedure, and they have allowed us to form our 45 delegations. We have our delegacija and it has its Rules of Procedure, and we are working on our Rules of Procedure in preparation, making decisions and our views that we will plead on the Parliamentary Committee according to our Rules of Procedure, which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission, so he does not jump out anything. When we are together with them, they insist that it be the Rules of Procedure, both of them and others, they cannot decide by the overhalf majority, by two-thirds, and we decide by our Rules of Procedure. They don't accept that. So now I can tell you anything you want. Since I'm sick of it as president of the Committee, I want to be, we're a parliamentary committee, so we're part of this Parliament, we're doing it on behalf of you, we're not doing what we're gonna do and we're taking some... The Rules of Procedure and the law of how we're going to do it. They eventually agreed beyond their principles to two-thirds agree to decide in our part and their part without being uniform. That's their proposal. So, since we don't have, we could bring this, this Rules of Procedure, Mr. Novaković's revote in our... we could bring it, I'm telling you, here's what colleagues who are members, but we didn't want it, I didn't want it. I didn't mean to. I was exhausted. I, therefore, insisted that we bring the consensus, brought everything by consensus to bring this along. [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[is not understood by the sound signal]] As that no longer goes, so now, the purpose of the work and the delegation and me as president and committee of the one you've chosen here is being put in place. And there's no problem with this initiative if you want me to take it back. You want to consider me responsible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It doesn't make sense. There's no point in working on this anymore. _________(?) [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[no microphone turned on]] And the resignation, There's no problem, but we need to replace the entire delegation with the Committee. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, but there's no one else in the back. So, come on, if you make yourself known as Home, we'll install this into the Rules of Procedure and bring our Rules of Procedure, as we wrote here. That's it, that's the only... no... if we're going to work. If we're not going to do let him bring it home this, second, we don't have a Rules of Procedure, which will be next I just can't predict, but I don't want to carry that burden anymore. This is the only parliamentary committee, the only parliamentary body under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19983	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to present, in cooperation with entity governments, a proposal for effective protection of domestic agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary House of BiH," No. 01-50-1-1622/17, of 05.07.2017. 46 The House College has appointed the Foreign Trade and Customs Committee responsible for considering this initiative. The Commission delivered its opinion on the initiative on 06.09.2017. The commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Agent Denis Bećirovi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19985	A few words as a proprietor. So this proposal for the creation and delivery of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly proposed effective measures to protect domestic agricultural production was delivered in July in parliamentary procedure. It was examined by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and by 6 votes for both BH entities and only one vote against the Commission supported this proposal. Given all the problems facing agricultural producers in our country in both entities, I think this proposal should be supported today at a session and invited by the Council of Ministers to join the implementation of this proposal as soon as possible, so that such a set of measures can be taken here and on the benches of the House of Representatives, and then I believe the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19986	Thank you. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this point. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Review of Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH be binding on the agenda of the first next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly of Points: Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest, guaranteed prices and safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH, and a proposal for a response to this initiative", issue: 01-50-1-1623/17, of 05.07.2017. The House College has appointed the Foreign Trade and Customs Committee responsible for considering this initiative. The Committee delivered its Opinion on the initiative on 06.09.2017. The commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19988	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. 47 So, last August, on August 1st, I made this story at the House of Representatives here in Parliament, but then submitted a written initiative to the Council of Ministers of BiH and other competent institutions system offices and to establish the principle of safe purchase and guaranteed prices of agricultural products in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following the example of many positive examples in the European Union and the region, with the aim of protecting and timely guaranteeing the safety of farmers in our country. Here, 13 months later, and especially in June of this year, we have seen how important it was for the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be responsible, to listen to what is coming from the field, to listen to what is coming to them through the positions of these initiatives that we have here in Parliament and, in some ways, to be held responsible for their work. In time to prepare for the problems that we, here, had the opportunity to see in June, July, so we look at them today, that actually these problems don't happen. After a month, after about 40 days, we received a response from the Council of Ministers saying, among other things, that this approach is known in the countries of the European Union, that in some European Union countries, after a certain period and giving up one such approach, but the fact is that until a system was built that it existed everywhere and that the ministry, or the Council of Ministers, considered this initiative and the very theme to be interesting, challenging and complex, so we had nothing more to do with the realization. So what's important to people on the ground, at this point we have, according to the information of people who do this job, about 100,000 people who directly or indirectly depend on whether we sit, especially people who are operating in power, those who have to, whose job it is to do, do they really understand how important it is that they represent people, protect them, and that the state in that sense does that part of the job. So, I mentioned earlier, the lowest guaranteed price and the surest ransom is the principle known in developed countries. Nowhere did this farmer, as he called himself, organized, nowhere he stood on his own, made that kind of standard, so he went into a position to compete in some real world, the market economy, but everywhere the state had to be that regulator, the state had to be the one that would help him get on his feet, therefore, help protect him from those who in the system, I would say, that second step, after the agricultural product was produced, those buyers and after that, in fact, this end-user at the end, but this category of redeemers would not be the ones who would blackmail people after the product arrived and after we had a finished agricultural product. Since, here, institutions haven't done anything concrete in a year, protecting farmers, and we have a system in which we will prevent the abuse of purchasers most clearly we could see it, let's say, in this case when it comes to BH Malinars. I think here in this room, of most of us sitting here, each of us had, whether it was concrete, whether directly or indirectly, some kind of requirement of these people to involve the institutions in this regard and to help them. So that's what the role of the state is. So, the state in this, when we talk about the Council of Ministers and when we talk about the institutions of the state, it's a different kind of story, but it's a commitment to actually coordinate the matter and to get us to solve the problem of people, nobody here can say that in that operational sense he didn't have, uh, jurisdiction. You all know that after sinking this year, hundreds of tons of raspberries have been produced, because of the lack of such a mechanism, that we have come into a position that a small group of people, so obviously, which is why institutions don't do the job the way they should, therefore, have come into a position to blackmail a thousand agricultural producers by giving them and offering them the lowest possible price, of which people can't actually cover their basic costs, and let alone, on the basis of what they do on earth, have some kind of income, that they can feed their families. So, what's the fact, there's a huge interest in the European Union, in the countries developed, in this production of our own. The state has an interest, too, in being on its own to be this kind of regulators and intermediaries and 48 being someone who will make sure through this that some hundreds, that I don't say thousands of jobs here are properly provided, but that they are provided in a way that people can think about how they will develop their product and that they will have the security to spread that kind of their products. Since there was no agreement of this kind, here we are today in the position that, as I mentioned earlier, we still have no concrete step for 13 months. In the meantime, we got, in the meantime, people on the ground organized themselves, so I think that you all got on your benches the last days and some of these adopted, established conclusions in the broadest sense of the Malian Association, people who deal with this business in the territory of the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which they sent us written views, therefore, in which they appeal, in which they pray, in which they ask that the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose citizens are, be involved and help them in this regard. To not simply allow those, as I would say, those who do not have a soul, redeemers who have been allowed by such a system to blackmail a large number of people, that for their honest work, therefore, they lead them to a position that leads them to the end of the situation that they are forced to throw away the product that they have made, to close a huge number of their landowners, a huge number of space they sow, because of one, I would say, because of their lack of opportunity, because of the unresponsibility, the misunderstanding of the institutions that they need in this sense, just to do their job. And I repeat, here are several times I've said that so far, everywhere in the world, the state has played this kind of role, why, say, is it not in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Why the government, why the institutions, this is why here the Council of Ministers, including entity governments and cantonal governments, don't have that kind of relationship and don't have that kind of system access, so simply, just to do their job. The conclusions that we have received from these people, from the Malinary Association, are clearly said to require that all levels of government be urgently involved in solving the problem of BH malaria, that, too, they are asking the Federation government, this is now the part that applies to these other lower levels, to make public statements about the level of raspberries in this year, to demand that they meet the requirements that were properly sent to all institutions and all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, let's say, in the last year. If there had been hearing and there was some honest relationship, and you could have connected this to some previous discussion that I had about the Peljega Bridge, that it had a simple conscience, one responsibility, one ability for people who run the executive government, there would have been no one after 13 months, no room, no possibility of, say, calling for something that begged someone and threw them, conditionally speaking, some balls 13 months ago to do it, if people had done it, we wouldn't have room to talk about this anymore, or thousands of people who live out of this and feed their children today would be in the position they are in. So, this, these conclusions and these demands that we have received from the people who are dealing with this work, which are addressed to all of us here in Parliament, in which it is said -- we are also talking to the BiH Parliament, why, because Parliament is the most legislative body of the state to which they belong and that is the fact, because Parliament, as the highest legislative body, expects it to stop, that this Parliament stands in defense of the rights of its citizens, and that is our, as it is called, obligation – we expect Parliament to take our problems extremely seriously and not to allow the destruction of malaria as the largest branch of agriculture that directly and indirectly feeds over 100,000 families. So, accent, over 100,000 families. If we have no consciousness here, so let's agree on that, to make some kind of, as I would say, arrangements and send some kind of message that we understand these appeals, then we really ask ourselves, I mean, where we are, how we do our part. They also call for this initiative that we are discussing here today, which, behold, has been waiting 13 months for some kind of response and some kind of realization, primarily from the executive government. So that there was consciousness and that there was hearing, so 13 months ago, that this matter was seriously devoted, we could have done it long before this, long before some re-routing in 49 parliamentary procedures had that kind of response, and the people on the ground could have a much better position than they are now. So, not to be misunderstood, I ask that in the direction of this discussion, at the very least, let us adopt at least one part of the conclusion. I expect to hear people from the Council of Ministers today, here is the chairman, I don't know, there's no minister here right now, but let's hear what's really theirs right now at this moment and the possibility and capacity, that here's the thing we're not particularly talking about for 13 months not having solved the problem, and we'll have the same problem next year about this time if.../the ambassador is being warned in time/... we don't react to the adoption of two conclusions, I'll deliver those conclusions in writing, since that time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19989	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Information from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić on the current state and relationship between the BiH Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the attitude towards the parliamentary majority – Proposer: Representative Sadik Ahmetović, number: 01.50-1-15-51/17, from 07.09.2017. I'm opening a debate. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19991	If you can tell me again, what does it say, what's the agenda point, I don't get it, information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19992	Please, I think you as an agent who has a long experience to know and read. It says on the display what your point is called.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19993	Thank you very much, thank you. Given that I asked the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit this kind of information, and the College of Parliament did not bother to obtain such information, and probably because of the seriousness of the situation in this country, because of the responsibility you have and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you should, because of the citizens of this country, because we are all getting paid to, to deliver, to make sure that such information comes to Members. So it would be good to get that kind of information in our oral form. I suppose you agree at least on this, if you don't agree when it comes to the position of building the Peljega Bridge, so you write different letters and embarrassing the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What you are doing today is irresponsibility towards an institution called the BiH Parliament, irresponsibility towards the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this country has its 50 institutions, they are called Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers, at the request of this Parliament, may and must submit information. At least that's the rules in all countries. Don't use your work to make cartoons out of the state. This is not a cartoon, there are a lot of people, a lot of people in this country who expect us to have this country working and that the citizens of this country live better. Why was I looking for this? I asked for the reason this country has great ambition, at least when it comes to the exposés of the Council of Ministers and the Work Plan. In the exhibition we heard a lot of what was promised to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also heard a lot of things in the Work Plan. We had a report on the work of the Council of Ministers at the previous session where the report failed. In every country when the report fails, when there is no parliamentary majority supporting the government, a question arises what are we going to do in the next period? Can we respond to the tasks ahead of us, can we respond to the citizens of this country, can we speed up Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, can we improve the lives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? These are all the questions that MPs and citizens of this country need to answer. So, I'm sure, I don't know what kind of gymnastics it is that you don't have a parliamentary majority and you can work. Well, you can see from this current agenda that we have today, which we had last time, that he's nothing, that there's nothing in it. Why is there nothing in the agenda? Because no legal project comes from the Council of Ministers, because this House does not have a majority, has the majority to take views on what are existential issues from the powers of the Council of Ministers and Parliament. Are we gonna play crazy, all of us here together, and watch for another year that we're not doing anything? I'm sure, and if you take the official papers, the only thing you have consent to is put people there by some kind of party, family, I don't know what criteria. That is why it always has agreement, and for consent to what is the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, does not exist, it does not exist. So these are open questions, so can we move on after all we've got right now? We're here to tell us, we're here to destabilise(?) The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the scene is destabilising. Perhaps the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not even guilty, it may be those whose hands are the strength, the political force in this country that meet in cafes and various other destinations, which have led this country into a schizophrenic situation so we don't know how we're going to get out of this. I know that many here are afraid of their leaders, I know that they can't say anything, most of them might think what I'm saying, those who have responsibility, and there are those who, of course, have no responsibility, it's nice to have a good salary, that their families have a good salary, that they hire a family and let it go like this, and to the citizens as it is. I'm watching only part, one small part in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's a return. One third of people, I'm talking about Bošnjak because the more I know, one third is less Bošnjak than the previous period in Republika Srpska. We can't get together anymore, there aren't any problems there now that were ten years ago, when there were more problems, by the, I don't know, government or someone, there were more, now there's not one-third of them. Why? Well, because they're completely forgotten, completely rejected, because no one thinks of them. I'm not going to go into any other questions, so they're, well, I'd like to get something out that would be positive, but in this last period, there's not. It would be good for the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers to say who is responsible. I know that a man may have tried to get something together, but the culprit exists and he has to be defined here, it must be clear why there is no parliamentary majority, there must be steps here that will answer all of us these questions why there is no, when it will be, this, and whether there will be parliamentary majority. Why? Because we're gonna stand in place and maybe go back. In this regard, I will propose a conclusion – that the BiH House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to collect 51 signatures of MPs from which it has support by the next session, so that they can define this status that we currently have and get out of this difficult situation so that they can answer the questions, the tasks that are ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19994	Thank you. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. We're closing this point. We're moving on to point 12, Ad. 12. Information on the activities of the BiH Market Control Agency, materials of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-9-12-3/17, of 12.06.2017. Last session of the House delayed an information debate to prepare an electronic presentation on the Agency's activities. I'm calling on the Agency's representatives to hold a presentation. Here, according to the reports, there's the deputy director, Mr. Dražen Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19996	Thank you very much. Dear President Krišto, members of the College, distinguished representatives, representatives of the executive government, representatives of the media, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you in front of the BiH Market Surveillance Agency and a personal name. I thank all those who have recognised the importance of this area as part of the infrastructure and quality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the share that there is a problem in the functioning of this area. In particular, I would like to highlight the conclusions of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Council of Ministers, and the insistence of this esteemed House on improving this area. I have prepared a short presentation to expose the existing situation in the area of market surveillance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the challenges ahead of us in this area. Market surveillance in Bosnia and Herzegovina operates through four institutions, therefore, the Market Surveillance Agency as a roof organisation, the Federal Inspectorate's Office, the Republika Srpska Inspectorate and Inspectorate of the Brcko District of BiH. Therefore, direct inspection is in the scope of the entity inspection bodies and the Brcko District which are authorised to control the safety of the product. The Agency's market surveillance measures are to coordinate and coordinate the activities of the market surveillance system, ensure the same and uniform implementation of the rules on product safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina, participate in the preparation and development of product safety rules, provide scientific and technical support to relevant inspection bodies, ensure uniform procedures for consumer complaints concerning product safety, information to the public, interested entities and authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina on market surveillance activities and achieve international cooperation in the field of market surveillance. The objectives of market surveillance are that products on the market in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not endanger consumer health and safety, animals, plants, property and the environment, free flow of goods and fair and fair competition for all 52 economic operators. This is about one scheme of how market surveillance is carried out in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about how, therefore, proactive and reactive control is carried out, how the annual surveillance plan is adopted, how the projects adopted by the annual plan are implemented and how inspections are ultimately carried out through laboratory tests, of course without laboratory testing, where we have visual and administrative controls, where a product risk assessment is determined, depending on the level of risk, and measures are taken for appropriate products. These are several images of insecure products found on Bosnia and Herzegovina's market. About here we have a child bike, I will briefly paraphrase, where we have dangerous parts of these children's bicycles, where they are approximately the diameter of the handle, an unprotected part of the chain that can catch parts of the clothing from the users, especially children. This is an example, too, of an electric product that is insecure where we have a large diameter of the protective grid of heaters that can cause burns, or electrocution in this heater. This is one skateboard that poses a risk to an injury where you can see that during a laboratory examination of this skateboard, there was a shooting of the axis of the skateboard. An example, also, of a floating aid where most of them have a problem in a irreversible valve and laboratory tests in most of these products have identified an irregularity. This is an example of insecure personal protective equipment where we have protective gloves that pose a chemical risk because they contain an illicit amount of chromium. For example, toys containing illicit phthalate concentrations that present a chemical risk, and phthalates are chemical composition, i.e. a chemical substance that allows the softening of plastic parts. These are approximately the results of market surveillance in 2016 where the administrative, visual and laboratory controlled 251 product models, of which 130 models or 374,200 pieces were not in line with the safety requirements for these products. The number of non-compliant products you have on the slide. The number of products which, where removed, are incompatible with 366,922 and the number of products withdrawn from the market is 7,271. This represents approximately groups of products with a serious risk to consumers where the main group represents toys. They are also the most extensive, so go electrical equipment, ladder, products for children, sports equipment, personal protective equipment, equipment for phones and products that come into contact with the skin. The most common risks identified in insecure products are the risks of injury, chemical risk, the risk of electrocution and fire, the risk of fire and burns, the risk of drowning and the risk of hearing damage. The origin of the product is, the most represented Chinese products, then Turkey, Poland, Germany, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this last one is unknown. This is an example of the market surveillance agency's website through which we inform the public about the insecure products found on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market, as well as the activities carried out by the Market Surveillance Agency. This is an example where we publish a guide and bulletin every year on insecure products. The guide refers to economic operators where we inform economic operators about the proactive surveillance to be carried out next year and where we inform them about those safety requirements that products must meet in order to be safe on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. In addition to these instructive, we have various brochures on product safety, which we certainly share to consumers to inform them which products are safe, which must meet the safety requirements, in order to have a safe product for use. What I want to highlight here are the current problems we are facing, which is not the adoption of a new Market Control Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with Regulation 765/2018 of the European Union, the failure to adopt a new European Union approach in Bosnia and Herzegovina legislation, insufficient funding from the Agency for Laboratory Studies and insufficient current human resources to carry out market surveillance activities. That's about 53 problems we're facing, and I'm really glad that you recognized that and that we're on our way, I hope, to solve that problem. I thank you for your attention and if there are any questions I'm open to.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19997	Thank you very much, Deputy Director, Mr. Primorac. I'm opening a debate. A representative of Dušanka Majkić came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19998	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for eventually introducing the man, because I had a dilemma. I know he's the chairman of this agency, Aleksandar Golijanin, and I see he didn't find fit to come and represent the material, but his deputy did. What I'm saying is that this material shows all the misery that we are in and the irresponsibility of the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry the chairman isn't here, and the competent institutions involved, but also the College that allowed him to send this chaotic state to the House. Now, I'm going to say a few words about what this is about. So, the first material on the subject... of presentations, which one knows about the purpose of the rules and who knows for whom, came, arrived to us MPs on 16th of June 2017, and this came with a letter from the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development to us. So, just... a presentation without a single sentence, without who it's referred to, and who's giving it, and who's responsible for the material that's been delivered to us, not a single sentence on that subject. And I can imagine that it came to the Commission, what, freak out what to do with it, let's go, let's send it to Dom and let Dom do it. Afterwards, the following document is called Information on the state of affairs in the area of control of the non-food market in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. It's on the Agency's memo, but it's not known if it's addressed, whether it's addressed to homes or it's done for someone, so here they share when they have some seminars, round tables and everything else. So, catastrophic. Now, there's something that's been put on there, someone who wanted to remind themselves of some things they've thrown into that material on a few pages of what kind of state it is. At the end of everything comes a new... presentation with a date of 06.09, which is on an increased number of sides, poorly copied, unrepresentative. It's embarrassing for Parliament. And now if a man wanted to say what this situation is like for us and why this Agency, which wanted to present that it actually needs money, sent one of these unfinished and inappropriate material to Parliament. You know what would happen in a country that holds on to itself, what would happen to such executives standing in the lead and this is how it fits. So, a really big grudge for you as a Kolegijum to keep the minimum of criticism when it comes to material coming to Parliament. This is our degradation, we need to waste time on one material that doesn't deserve attention, and it's so current and important that we should think about it alike. If this is adopted by the Council of Ministers, we don't know, it doesn't say anything, it's just a tragedy. So, I don't think this is worth talking about at all, that it is necessary to ask the Agency to behave, to send new material, after the Commission for Economic Reform takes a stand and after that to discuss this House of Representatives and to take... individually what needs to be done to bring this Agency into order. Thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u19999	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20000	I thank the chairman. I find that there is no one in the Council of Ministers' room, all of them were wiped out as soon as this point was completed about the report concerning them, at which the dots did not even find it appropriate to address it accordingly. Article 180c) states that the Council of Ministers, through its representative, is obliged to take part in the House sessions, and Article 181 says the Council of Ministers at the House meetings is the chairman, ministers or deputies. I therefore suggest that either take a break or otherwise ensure compliance with this provision of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20001	Thank you very much. We are now at the point of the agenda where we have the proposer and who, here, filed the report and please let us conclude this point until we get to where we should be that the promoter is present. I hope we understand this in the context of Home's work, more efficiently anyway. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20002	I thank the chairman. I did not talk about this point of the Rules of Procedure regarding the presence of the Proposer, that is a completely different point of the Rules of Procedure, if I remember 74 correctly, but I was talking about point 180, which requires the presence of a representative of the Council of Ministers at meetings of the House which is necessary regardless of the point of the agenda discussed at a given time. We've had this before, I don't know why we're reopening the debate. Therefore, without the Council of Ministers' presence, there are no business conditions for maintenance, or debate on any part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20003	How's the Rules of Procedure...?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20004	So we don't see any here, that we have to have a mandatory presence. So let's move on with our work. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20005	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 55 Damir, I support you, for it is he who is in charge of obeying and seeing what is to be done that is not there. But I'll talk even though he's gone. I hope someone at least reads what we say or it's just a set of mere sentences written in session stenograms. I tried to read this material, tried to figure it out, tried to get to the bottom of it, and then I built my own structure, because simply from this man can't come to what it really means to protect consumers, or to protect the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because all consumers, from unborn children to the oldest residents of this country. I'm very surprised that those who made this information, or wanted to make it, didn't at least find that interference and internal division, in the Federation from Canton to Federation, were in the state through entities. I can give you examples of different interpretations of standards and quality. You have an example of a child toy importer, the same toy imports one into Republika Srpska, the other in the Federation. The toy has a magnet in the back, it has a declaration, it has what it's made of, it passed everything in the Sarajevo Canton, it passed in Republika Srpska. And watch the interpretations now – since it is far away from this in Lukavica that he is coming for this toy to sell at his facility in Banja Luka he is taking over from suppliers in Sarajevo. The inspection in East Sarajevo says – it is not precisely stated that it is a magnetic toy and is being tried. Look, I'm talking about the exact same product from the same supplier. And this one from Sarajevo has to pay a fine of 4,000 marks because he distributed a toy where there is no precise "magnet", and the same declaration, sold in Banja Luka, in Prijedor, is not punished alive. You have to tell me what the catch is, whether it's in different regulations or because it comes from another side. This is an example from practice. When it comes to food, gentlemen, you or us here or the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, someone fat lies, and when it comes to quality and when it comes to origin. Don't lie down, I don't hesitate to say it, and I'm not ashamed of it, I supply the family, I go to the market, and on the front of the crate where the tomato writes the country of origin of Croatia, on the front page, on the declaration. When you pull out those baskets downstairs, you forget people take out paper, and it says in Albanian that it's from Albania. So Albanian tomatoes originating in Croatia are sold in Bosnian markets. I'm very interested in who's been in control and who's done the background control? The next example, melon, I have to do this because we have to show examples that we are not doing what needs to be done, that in this country we can do whatever anyone wants, it writes the origin of BiH, and from where, somewhere in the Neretva Valley. I'm talking about a melon at a mall that's called, I don't want that name right now because they've torn up a lot of them in the joint business. And they are complex in that crate, so watch out for BiH origin, declaration, lift, down in the declaration reads Turkey. How can Bosnia and Herzegovina be a Turkish product? I'm interested in that. And I hope you're fully aware that nowhere in the Mediterranean does it mature or grow a melon that has so-called denominations. The name sneezing melon, impossible. It's from the tropics and Africa. Now, look at those crates and read the origins of where we eat. It came from Croatia, tell me how and where it is grown in Croatia. Go to the markets, please, I must say, in Sarajevo, I am very interested in when in Sarajevo or the surroundings of Sarajevo or in Bosnia and Herzegovina we make leafy shadow cheese. How is it possible to sell as a product originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina, how is that possible? And now we can do dozens, hundreds of examples, hundreds. Gentlemen from the Agency is the basic anarchy on the market, the basis is that there is no total legal legitimacy at the level of the state, the basis is the conflict of the right to control, i.e. the adoption of the right of jurisdiction. And to Europe, we will not, not that we won't, but we won't be able to get close unless such legislation is at the level of the state. Imagine if the different criteria had Berlin and Bavaria, imagine if the Italian regions had different laws and criteria, French regions different laws and criteria. It is nowhere in Europe except Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20006	Thank you very much. Representative Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20007	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. I will briefly, since, behold, a presentation like this, as the predecessors have already said, as it is, confusing and all kind of scattered, so is the situation in the arrangements of Bosnia and Herzegovina's markets to non-food products, we can modestly reie like this – it's worse. I'm just going to say, here's an example, what hurts me and what I have... I'm dealing with it. Before the non-food product is placed on the market of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is to be imported, it must, that product, fulfil certain assumptions, that is to meet certain conditions, and these conditions are defined or defined by certain regulations, or rules. And for a kind of product, which, here we are today importing into Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have that defined by the rules of the former Yugoslavia of 1982. So today, when we import the product, specifically in the exclusive environment, it's defined by the '82 rule. A year. 35 years ago, people said what that product should contain. And now we want it and we want to have security on the market, and we don't change anything and we don't adopt it. Another example I'm going to point out, I'm not a very respected colleague here, in the last part of this session, so last week, she was commenting on the initiative that me and she put together, it's about adopting one of the new approach directives, and we got an answer as to why this directive wasn't adopted, and it's about, directly, the security of our citizens, or consumers who use such products. We are told that we have one complete blockade in the adoption of these directives and the regulation of these things on our market, i.e. in our regulation. I would, here, no one is here, and I'm sorry, from the Council of Ministers, really these people at the Agency need huge support, and I don't know if we have a single product testing lab in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we should, we should fight, try to get these things, and in particular, here, from a respected minister, if we can't adopt some directives, if there's a blockage around this Directive Committee, then we should try to build this up in a more state, in some way to overcome this blockade. I totally agree that we're definitely not having a market. As far as the material is concerned, it is as it is material. We had a debate on the Commission, and there we adopted a few conclusions, there they were on the Commission from both Houses, the one, members, was an extremely, extremely constructive story, there was no one against, I think, against those conclusions. I don't know what those conclusions are, which isn't... with the Commission in this material. I really think it's part of the gap, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20008	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20009	I just Demirović to say to my colleagues, the entity inspection authorities are conducting an examination and surveillance in the segment they are covering. This is not the Agency's excessive activity. Her, uh, 57th since the law is somewhere, it seems to me, in 2004, it was quite beyond anything, but this insufficient and insufficiently proactive position of the Agency is surprising. Because what happens after, here we heard the first time we discussed it, what happens after this session? Is anything going to change? Nothing, and it's so alarming, our children are getting sick from the wrong toys, so the population is at risk. And if we were to manage what the Agency has done, where the Agency is in public, where it is represented and where it warns, so what has been delivered to the MPs is not enough, what the citizens need to say. I've never had a case like this before that I've had such a bad report from an agency that it's embarrassing. And I hope that there will never be so much neglect and so much pride for Parliament to come forward with such a document. Three different documents that have nothing to do with each other. And now Mr. Novaković tells me there is a fourth, but it's a commission matter, not the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20010	Thank you. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, issue: 01,02-34-1893/17, since 31.07.2017. You've received a proposal for a conclusion. The joint college of both homes suggests that the Joint Commission be appointed from the House of Representatives: Šefik Džaferović, Mladen Bosić and Borjana Krišto. I'm opening a debate. Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20012	When it comes to this problem where, especially in the West, it is very important that the opposition representatives are represented in such committees, even if the opposition has most members, you have provided us with a Prijdlog that of all six members is from ruling parties, two from the SDA, two from the SDS and two from the HDZ. I really think that, not by bringing in the essence and need to do this at all, but that at least half of the members in that commission should come from the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20013	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20014	I thank the chairman. Not to repeat what counterpart Bećirović said, it is also necessary to remind, for the sake of the public, what the Independent Committee is. So, the Independent Committee appoints directors of all relevant police agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is the Commission that will conduct interviews with candidates for members of the Independent Committee and propose their appointments on principle, whether, take or leave, as these commissions normally do and what we have indicated on more and more occasions. Here I'll remind you again, uh, of the appointment of Mufid Memija for BHRT, the Management Board, etc., etc. In this, the public, unlike these letters, will, as SDA and HDZ officials send to various addresses in Europe and the world, and as one they attack the bridge, others as a bridge dam, this will show how SDA and HDZ work perfectly well together when they need to fill places, for example. in such important institutions as this is the Independent Committee for the Selection of Police Officers. And they just, not only do they choose but they do a number of other shops when it comes to police officers and police agencies. Therefore, this proposal of the College is absolutely unacceptable. So, not only do we have three members of the College from each House as proposals for these committees, but we have three, by two members, as Mr Bećirović already said, from the SDA, from the HDZ and from the SDS, and then there will be no surprise at all that there will be a Committee that will not be independent at all, but that will fully depend on its composition, which will depend entirely on the will of these three political parties. And this completely devalues the purpose and nature of the committee as it was imagined when the 2008 Act on Independent Authorities of Police Structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted which, I remind you again, was a condition for paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. And that's what brings me to the bottom of this. While you're writing gentlemen from the College, who you yourself have proposed in this Commission, when you're already writing to European officials – a bridge, not a bridge, etc. And play great patriots, will you also write to them that this is how you politically formulate this Commission to elect an Independent Committee, because it's something they need to know. Here, I'll wait until Mr. Bosić and Džaferović consult, so I'll continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20015	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20016	A colleague Bosić's been trying to listen to me for half a day and he wasn't even in the O.R. for half a day. This is actually what European officials are interested in, whether we are making genuine steps towards membership in the European Union, because, I remind you again, this Committee and these laws were a condition for paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, you can freely write to them that you are now going to the politicisation of these police bodies, and that will, I am sure, reflect negatively on the European aspirations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20017	Thank you. Representative Zaim, Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations, apology. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20018	I just have one question. When the children of high-ranking officials of judicial functions are placed, when they are placed in positions, in front of political parties at the positions of the director of public enterprises is that politicisation of the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20019	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20020	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't know what to say anymore. At the very least, it's degutant when he looks at anyone that's the gentlemen who chair the homes and the Independent Committee, at the very least. I don't know if there's anything that can shame people into taking so many things into their own hands that they think they're fire and sword and that they cut and create in this country an atmosphere or create a picture that's an absolutely politicized country in every segment of her life. I also ask myself very often – whether people have inner presses and how they can see with wide eyes when they list themselves in how many the bodies of this congregation are. And when you look at it, it's clear why we don't actually work, when people have taken into their own hands, it's just amazing that they're the ones who know, not just everything and everything, but they're able to do everything and everything. Is it possible that there are know-it-alls? If so, let us say who our Einsteins are, who are ours, who are ours, that I don't list them all, so that we say that on the wings of this infinite knowledge and infinite opportunity we will soon, and probably from Monday, have a state that is entirely framed in the full rights of equality of all citizens, peoples, peoples, national minorities, etc. Do the gentlemen who chair this House, make an effort not to be what our people say you are in every corner. Do it. Look how many of us are sitting here. And I'm asking you directly now -- how many times you've gone on the road, how many times you've gone on the road, how many times you've gone on the road. You ask me. Not five meters outside of this House. What's this about? You've usurped everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20021	Thank you very much. Deputy, colleague Mladen Bosić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20022	Well, I mean, I have no intention of justifying myself to anyone, but this is a practice that was in the former members of the College, in the former majority of the congregation. And don't talk to Mr. Backović like that, you're wrong. I was never on any committee here, parliamentary, because I thought they were supposed to be other people. And this is the College's proposal because it was thought to reduce the discussion, let's say, here, the College members will be in the Commission so as not to open up the story of what he, what he, but let's be members of the College. And that's the only reason. So you're wrong, I don't want to, I don't need to justify myself, that's what happened. You 60 vote for or against, will be on the committee or will not be on the committee, that is Parliament's right, but do not be offended when there is no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20023	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20024	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, just Mr. Arnaut asked me to say this, because he wasn't the only one talking today, so eveningly, all the time today it was happening, let's say by Mr. Šepić and some others, HDZ - U.S.A. So, on behalf of the club, I'm ready to talk about who's responsible for what's been going on in the last 25 years, in the last day, in the last five days, etc. It's a hollow story dakle, first of all HDZ doesn't have as many representatives as the SDA, there's no position as many SDAs. So, equating some kind of partnership through some kind of historical time in this country is even inappropriate in this way. So, if we just made a deal about these, this place doesn't matter at all. So, you're bringing us back, banalizing us, not only you, today Mr. Šepić spoke to him, when I told him that Mr. Čović was not, that he was Komšić in the presidency and then in 2007, so he shut up, and he was evening it up, so he said, "So, then 30% is HDZ's fault." So these are funny things, to compare it in a way like this when it's some appointment, because we're part of some parliamentary majority, if at all there is, so I find Mr. Zvizdić's debate even unclear. So I don't even know who the majority is anymore and what the majority is, and who the opposition is, who the opposition to this, pardon, Denis...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20025	Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20026	Denis Bećirović, I apologize. So, I reject that, the way of the claim, and I'm willing to talk about the responsibility of the HDZ BiH in all 25 years, the last day, the last five days, the last ten days, and this is how to say it, it's funny to me, it's banal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20027	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20028	Dear Mr. Bosić, I'm sorry if you recognized yourself here, because I wasn't talking about one person, but overall, to the one who presides over this body. You want me to tell you what the total of you three committees are, commission? I'm sorry you found yourself here. Mr. Lovrinović, I'm not taking twice, if nothing, you're in position. So don't tell me what the position is, who's not the position, HDZ is the po-zi-ci, the government, and don't say you don't know who it is. You know perfectly well, you're the government. Dot. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20029	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20030	... to say that this assembly of Parliament will remain remembered for practically eradicating the opposition wherever possible. I remember the law when it was passed and when it was said that there was no point in the Council of Ministers choosing the directors of police agencies, but that therefore it was necessary to form an independent body to deal with, meaning, the election and suspension, or the resolution of the directors of police agencies. And that's why it was logical for the opposition MP to always preside over such a body. But what you've done today shows not only your relationship to the opposition, it also shows a relationship to your colleagues from the parties from which you come. So you had no confidence that your party colleagues would do well, but three members of the College decided to put themselves in a position to make that choice. Well, you know, you can blame us here for all sorts of things, but if we weren't smart enough to understand your intentions, you really can't accuse us. I'm asking you to change this choice, don't make fun of it, adopt everything and adopt it, leave something at least to be an illusion of independence in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20031	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20032	I just want to react to this, that this stimuli has wiped out the opposition, God Bog. This Parliament has a very democratic Rules of Procedure which fully allows the opposition to launch every initiative here. In one of the previous periods, when the SNSD was part of the majority, I'd like to see these commissions that were members of the SDS, of this kind.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20033	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20034	These kind of things, Mrs. Majkić. Wherever the elections and appointments were, we never fell, when we weren't part of the majority. If we talk about eradicating the opposition, erasing the opposition is what is happening at this time in the National Assembly where police have blocked the hall where the National Assembly session is held and does not allow the opposition to enter the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20035	Thank you. A fellow deputy, Šefik Džaferović, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20036	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 62 So the truth is what Mr. Bosić was talking about, none of us here have any interest in being in this body. If you think it's supposed to be another body, suggest, we'll vote on it. We were in charge of the fact that in the last term this body was composed of the College and we felt that the people most responsible, have the highest obligations in both homes, should be in the Commission that will translate this procedure and that you will certainly decide on. So, like this – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 41st session of the House of Representatives, held on 31st, I read what the Croatian version, 31st January 2013 and 27th session of the House of People, held on 26 February 2013, by the same conclusion of the House of People and the House of Representatives, the number of which since 26 February 2013, has appointed members of the Interim Joint Committee of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of the procedure of the appointment of members of the Independent Committee, the Committee of Appeals of Citizens as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, in the follow-up text of the Committee, which is made up of: Dr Božo Ljubić, therefore, member of the College of the House of Representatives, Dr Denis Bećirović, also a member of the House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dr Milorad Dragan, as well as a member of the Representative of the House of the House of the House of the House of the House of the House of Čović of the House of the House of the House of the Houses, Mr of the Houses, Sulejman of the Tihić of the Ognjen of the Tadić of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the Generals of the Europeans of the Generals of the Europeans of the Europeans of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of BiHs of the Europeans of BiHs of the Council of the Council of the Council of BiH of the Council of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of the Council of the Council of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of the Council of BiH of BiH of the Council of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH, Mr of the Council of BiH. And finally, it says here, that she signed this, they chose among themselves the College of the Body, so the chairman of the Interim Joint Committee is Dr Dragan Čović, the first vice-president of the Interim Joint Commission Dr Milorad Živković and the second chairman of the Interim Joint Commission, Dr Denis Bećirević. So this is how it was, we were handling this, don't attack us. We thought we should do it like this, if you think otherwise, the House will decide, we don't decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20037	Thank you very much. Debate, MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20038	Thank you, Chairman. Well, Mr. Džaferović, that was real a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20039	Was it a long time ago?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20040	That was a long time ago. We're going to Europe, so we need to change some rules. So we could, uh, in a different way form this Commission. But unfortunately, it's a bad practice, isn't it, bad practice that we need to finally get rid of? I would say it this way, independent committees are chosen by independent people, dependent on politics and their leaders, and by choosing independent committees they will turn into dependent on their political leaders and policies. The problem is, you don't trust your members anymore either, because then they have some candidates, and you will certainly spend what the leaders say. I think that's the answer, I don't know what else would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20041	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20042	I'm sorry again, but I have to react. Dear colleague Džaferović, you say you've handled yourself and done what they are, all the time you're saying you're going forward and you want to improve, that you want it to be better, more transparent and that politics interferes as little as possible in these things, and then you confirm that they've been doing the same because you're acting the same way they are. It's an affair.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20043	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group on the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of the Officials in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02- 34-1894/17, since 31.07.2017. You've received a proposal for a conclusion. The joint college of both homes suggests that the Interresor Working Group should be appointed: Amir Fazlić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Predrag Kožul. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20045	I thank the chairman. A moment ago, the same situation is here, we have the Commission, we have a proposal from the College and this proposal from the College is being represented, now it will be a big surprise, SDA, HDZ and SDS. So, the same situation as before. Now just now, Mr. Bosić said that members of the College themselves have proposed that there should be no dispute as to why this name, why not someone else, would be very interesting to me to hear an explanation for these names. Did you propose to a colleague of Fazlić, a colleague of Pandurević and a colleague of the Kožul that there would be no debate why this name, why not someone else? Are you still standing by your explanation, Mr. Bosić? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Uh, here's a proposal from the College. Now, so this is completely inconsistencies and the only consistency in all of this is that it's three parties, SDA, HDZ and SDS, which, some of them, and very often all three, are having such a public argument over things that the people have nothing to do, and then when something concrete is to be done, it's very easy to agree. And secondly, I apologize, the second consistency is, is whether, that they will very easily agree on three first-ranked candidates who will be, is, in that Commission, this, B, H and S just now, and you can never happen, although statistics do not know 64 such a possibility that two Bošnjak or two Hrvat end up first and second on the ranking list, so let's say that now someone from another or third people is third, etc. As for this particular one, these Interresor Working Groups, which is now a part of the agenda, the SBB fully supports the creation of the Law on the Study of Origin of Officials in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I will now remind myself that this is not the first time that this issue is at the polls. We, there, can't remember how long ago, adopted the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is in charge of making a law on the examination of the origin of officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, as far as I'm aware, the Council of Ministers has never submitted a proposal for such a law in the procedure. We then voted in favour of that conclusion that the Council of Ministers was in charge. We fully support the adoption of such a law and, I remind you, when it comes to this particular conclusion, this conclusion was adopted in both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and the SBB through its four MPs in this House and through its delegate, Mr Radončić, in the House of Peoples voted in favour of this conclusion. The Council of Ministers was totally deaf about it, and I don't know if it was because the Secretary-General didn't want to do anything about making such a law, I can't get into it, but the fact that the Council of Ministers had been deaf about the conclusion of both homes, and I think, for a moment, Mr Lovrinović, or perhaps someone else, can't remember, said that he only admits the conclusions adopted by both homes. Here, that's one of those conclusions that both homes adopted and the Council of Ministers went deaf again. Now, you see, we have a problem since HDZ is constantly against making such a conclusion. I'm going to quote an HDZ delegate in the House of Peoples who said that passing a law like this would suck. Those are her words, I don't use such terminology in serious debates, so I quote, she said -- it sucks. As far as the SBB is concerned, this law is necessary. However, given that the composition of the Commission is two SDAs, two SDS and two HDZ, as it is, whether proposed here, and we all know that the commissions act by principle that you should have at least one vote from each nation and given that the HDZ candidate said that this law would be meaningless, we can then expect that the outcome of all of this will be non-registration, or that what we now need to be in charge of the Commission to do, is there absolutely no other option. Therefore, if the composition of the Commission does not change and in this particular case, given that HDZ has already pointed out that such a law would be meaningless, then this Commission, the composition of this Commission, is necessary to change the order of the Croatian people to enter someone who is not from the HDZ, because otherwise we already know the position of HDZ, and since a single bar, from the Croatian people, is the result of this effort will be zero and then we will not have a law on the investigation of the origin of the property of elected and appointed officials and all of this will be another pre-election farce. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that one representative in this Commission of the Croatian people should not be from the HDZ. And since I'm an MP at the House of Representatives, I think we should do this, remove that dilemma immediately. In this House, we have representatives of the Croatian people who are not from HDZ, and that is where the replacement should be carried out, so that we can finally get a proposal for a law on the examination of the origin of the property of elected and appointed officials. If this is not done, from everything the HDZ has said so far about this bill proposal, including that such a proposal sucks, as the HDZ delegate in the House of Nations said, we will not have a voice from the Croatian people in this Commission for this bill and will not see the light of day from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20047	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20048	Uh, what Mr. Arnaut is today in love with HDZ. So, Bog's gonna let HDZ rule on that, that there's at least a verdict in this country of HDZ, but, uh, that you quoted a colleague from another House, I don't know how you get that's the HDZ's position. A koleginica in this House or any other home, if not the club's position, can make her own position, so I guess we're a democratic state, and we're a democratic party. And, uh, all the talk, and I forgot to tell you earlier, and now this one, in addition to her, is actually a story that, all this time, is present. So it's just going to create a civil state because it shuts down HDZ, so there's the U.S.A., as you intend, I don't know, legitimate representatives of the people, then it'll be all right and everything, so at least I understand that, as you say. So, you didn't say anything special, new.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20049	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20050	I thank the chairman. Oh, this persistent, nothing-provoked, and I think totally unnecessary connection and connectionmaking of HDZ – SDA – SDS, I don't know, I, I think the distinguished colleague just mentions it to distract attention from those key and real connections. It's SBB and SNSD. Such a connection is never more visible than today when the opposition in the National Assembly is prevented from entering the Assembly Hall and attending the session, and SNSD's quorum is being held by an SBB MP. So we work and work together with everyone who wants some concrete solutions. We're not seeing that we know how any of our colleagues will behave or any of our HDZ colleagues do. We think everyone will have a public pressure problem if they try to obstruct. A colleague of yours, and your colleague Čivić is holding a quorum of SNSD, so when you're throwing, you don't let, I mean, provide business opportunities to talk. So anyone who does not have a solution like this will also have a problem with public pressure and with voters. We don't have a problem, we think a solution like this should be made. The SBB club will have a chance to make amendments, to improve, I believe you'll do well and I don't really see what this kind of drama is all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20051	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20052	Well, it's really idyllic that my colleague Lovrinović showed this connection between the SDA and HDZ, but you see, as far as you can tell, colleague Pandurević says - nothing is caused. I, if my eyes don't cheat on me, I saw at the last point of the agenda a proposal of the Commission's composition, six members, two HDZ, two SDS, two SDAs. At this point, it seemed like rain in a second, SDA, HDZ, SDS. Therefore, it was triggered by proposals submitted by the College. And as for this public pressure, so you see something, when the white bread was and those fees on the commissions, it didn't help me at all to put pressure on the public when the HDZ was a serious fight against the elimination of white bread and these fees on the commissions, it was. Thank you, 66.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20053	Thank you. Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20054	Now that we're having a public pressure attack today, the fact is that some people here like to manipulate the public, and then they say, we're removing white bread to save, and then much more than the white bread they'd take, they take it because they're transferring their wife to the budget. So much for fighting nepotism and principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20055	Thank you very much. Here's the moment we're taking a break by 4:00. I'll see you here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. The debate, Backović Zaim, I see no representative, Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20057	The Honorable Chairman. I'll be brief. I see here that a working group is being proposed, but it was logical to be in charge of the Council of Ministers, but since the Council of Ministers does not act according to, even on the agenda of this Parliament, I propose the shortest possible version, which is that, I remember at some point in my term as an MP and there have been many times the good laws that were on the agenda with the same name, they have been proposed by different parties, in particular they proposed, this, at the time of the pre-election campaign, so here, I suggest that today we do not vote on this conclusion at all, but to vote on the conclusion, I suggest that the proposal that one of the proposed laws that were returned to the parliamentary benches and to adopt itself. So there are good laws, I remember, so there were at least two at a time when I was in office in this House thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20058	Thank you very much. Denis Bećirović, the debate, I don't see anyone. I'm closing the debate on this point. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement (the Employment Support Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material number: 01,02-05-2-1546/17, dated 22.06.2017. 67 You've been given the authority's opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate at point 15. We're going to point 16, Ad. 16. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in the accession process to the European Union, No 01,02-05-2-1902/17, of 31.07.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20064	Someone says you should, read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20065	This is how the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to launch an initiative to introduce a blue elevator by launching a procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of the 39 present – 23 for, 6 against, 10 abstentions. We also have an entity majority in general, and we've adopted the conclusion of an independent bloc club representative. You know we don't vote on point 6 so there's no confusion. Moving to point 7. – Report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješko bridge and the Report on activities to implement the project of building an interstate bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj and the connected border sections of the highway on Corridor 5c – applicant: Ministry of Communication and Transport of BiH (realising the parliamentary initiative 69 adopted at the 49th session of the House of Representatives, held 05.07.2017.) Act No 01-50-1-1474/17, of 28.08.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Should I read the conclusion? House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly... _________(?) Would you repeat that, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20066	We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20067	What do I need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here, I'm reading the conclusion, just a little attention. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives forms a working group consisting of club presidents, which will, based on a transcript of the proposed conclusions of the Declaration and the proposed additions to the Declaration and, in consultations with the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, submit any declaration or conclusion to the House of Representatives. Of the 39 present – 13 for, 22 v, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 5 for, 21 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska – 8 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions. There's no general majority. Now we're going towards the order of conclusions. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of the representative from the SBB Club. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to launch a ratification procedure for the next 60 days between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia signed in Sarajevo on 30 July.In 1999, and in accordance with the Law on the procedure for the conclusion and implementation of interstate, or international contracts. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 11 against, 7 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 20 for, no objection, 6 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 11 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we agree later?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20069	Well, I can do it right now, if you want later, we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20070	We're going to the second round as far as the conclusion is concerned. 70 Out of 39 present – 21 for, 11 against, 7 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 20 for, no objection, 6 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 11 against, 1 abstention. So there is a general majority, but in Republika Srpska 2/3 are against and we have not adopted this conclusion. Now we're going to the text of the Declaration, by order. I'm voting on the text of the Declaration.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20071	/no microphone involved/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20072	And why should we read when we all have, we get written, and we vote on the written text, uh, the Declarations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20073	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20074	We vote separately. There's now a vote on a declaration signed by 24, if I'm not mistaken, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20075	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20076	So, on your request, we make exceptions when it comes to the text of these specific decisions, so let's be clear. We call on the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH not to reach bilateral solutions with the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Declaration, to take all necessary legal actions by diplomatic means towards the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union, with regard to the protection of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea of the adoption of a special law on the sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the launch of legal proceedings before international judicial institutions. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20077	... No withdrawal from the Treaty. [[no microphone turned on]] The SBB is pleased. _________(?) Whose suggestion is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20078	I said this is a proposal for 24 MPs in the House of Representatives, the text of the Declaration. _________(?) Whose suggestion is what you said... 71 It's a component of this, so I said we made an exception at the request of the MPs to just read point 4. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20081	Could I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20082	We vote, please colleague, what's this about?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20083	I'm just doing business to help.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20084	Well, don't say it like that, we're voting on a proposal for a declaration signed by 24 MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20085	We vote in the package, so we vote in the package on the Declaration and the Supplemental Declaration, in the package. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20086	Well, I don't really know what you're talking about. What supplements are you thinking about? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, you can't vote, everything the SDS suggested will come to order. Please repeat the vote, we are voting on a declaration signed by 24 MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20089	I'm asking it to happen again. _________(?) I'm looking for a break to see who's...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20090	Please, there's no pause during the vote. Let's move on with the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20091	Wait a minute, let the vote repeat and ask for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20092	You can ask to repeat the vote. Do you want to repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20093	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20094	Please repeat the vote. _________(?) .. We don't want... [[no microphone turned on]] You don't want to. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20096	The SDA club is asking for a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20097	We're putting a motion for the Declaration to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The same ones we're about, they're looking for a re-election. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20101	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20102	No, don't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20103	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20104	How will I give you my word? Please give us some patience, so don't make it now if you're unhappy with some things to do, so let's go work on the Rules of Procedure. We do that every time. We have suggestions... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And how will you know that the Declaration will be adopted? Is she adopted? [[/very bile joint discussion.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20107	_________(?) ... [[no microphone turned on]] At the club's request... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20108	Please repeat the vote. Of the 39 present – 27 for, 11 v, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 21 for, 5 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska – 6 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. If that was the objectives the Declaration was adopted. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of the SDS Club's representative, the addition of the Declaration. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20109	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20110	Please, come forward, everyone, you have written materials in front of you. Of the 39 present – 24 for, 10 against, 5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 17 for, 9 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska – 7 for, 1 against, 5 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. We adopted amendments to the Declaration, or additions to the Declaration in front of the SDS Club. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Agent Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20111	Pulling...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20112	I would like to conclude that Mr Nikola Lovrinović, the proponent of the conclusion, has withdrawn the proposal. We are going to the vote on the adoption of MP Hanka Vajzović's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20113	Here, and I'm pulling...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20114	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude that, at the proposal of the motion, MP Hanka Vajzović's conclusion was withdrawn before the vote. We move on to the adoption of the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative. Should we read the conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Did you say you should? The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the BiH Presidency to provide the Parliamentary Assembly with information on all the activities and actions it has undertaken since 2007 when the BiH presidency adopted in the latter composition positions related to the construction of the Pelje Bridge. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative. 75 Of the 39 present – 19 for, 17 v, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 18 for, 7 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 10 against, 2 abstentions. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go straight to the second round? We are going to the second round of voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative. Of the 39 present – 19 for, 17 v, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 18 for, 7 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 10 against, 2 abstentions. There is a general majority, and Republika Srpska has no 2/3 against...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20116	It's 2/3.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20117	2/3, yes, and no proposal has been adopted for the conclusion of Senad Šepić. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of Agent Denis Bećirović. Should I read the conclusion? [[Common discussion]] Please, should I read the conclusion? You don't have to. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Denis Bećirović. Of the 39 present – 18 for, 19 v, 2 abstentions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20124	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20125	Unless it's adopted, that's right, that's right. If this one's adopted, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20126	Then we also vote on number two.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20127	That's right. We are now going to vote on the proposal for conclusion number one. Of the 39 present – 18 for, 16 versus, 5 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 18 for, 3 against, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska – no... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 39 present – 20 for, 14 against, 5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 19 for, 2 against, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 12 against, no abstentions. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we get a match? We're going to the second round. Of the 39 present – 24 for, 13 v, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 23 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 12 against, no abstentions. There is a general majority but there are 2/3 against and the proposal has not been adopted. So now we don't vote, he doesn't make sense of this conclusion number two. Moving to point 9. – Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to present, in cooperation with entity governments, a proposal for effective protection of domestic agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina within six months of the date of adoption of this initiative in the Parliamentary House of BiH," No. 01-50-1-1622/17, of 05.07.2017. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. 78 Out of 39 present – 22 for, 12 against, 5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 21 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 12 against, no abstentions. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are we going to the second round right now? We're going to the second round of voting on this initiative. Of the 39 present – 22 for, 12 against, 5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 21 for, no objection, 5 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 12 against, no abstentions. There is a general majority, there are 2/3 against in Republika Srpska, so the initiative has not been adopted. We're going to point 10. — Consideration of the Senad Šepić parliamentary initiative, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH be binding on the agenda of the first next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly of Points: Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest, guaranteed prices and safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH, and a proposal for a response to this initiative", issue: 01-50-1-1623/17, of 05.07.2017. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 39 present – 21 for, 7 against, 11 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 20 for, no objection, 6 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 7 against, 5 abstentions. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20129	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-13-0.u20130	Later. Let's go with the suggestion of a conclusion, or we'll leave. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, it doesn't make sense, when it's no longer an initiative to leave a proposal for a conclusion for the next session. Okay. We're going to point 11. – Information from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić on the current state and relationship of the Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and from the parliamentary majority – Proposer: Representative Sadik Ahmetović, number: 01.50-1-15-51/17, from 07.09.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović. I'm reading the conclusion. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Denis Zvizdić with collecting by next session the signatures of lawmakers whose support he has in his work so that a position on the status of the BiH Council of Ministers could be adopted in the coming period. Of the 39 present – 20 for, 18 v, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 13 for, 12 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 7 for, 6 against, no abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the conclusion of Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Let's get to point 12. – Information on the activities of the BiH Market Control Agency, materials of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-9-12-3/17, of 12.06.2017. We're voting on receiving this information. Of the 39 present – 13 for, 24 v, 2 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 12 for, 13 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 11 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that we have not received information on the activities of the BiH Market Control Agency. We're going to point 13. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure – Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, issue: 01,02-34-1893/17, since 31.07.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion, the appointment of Šefik Džaferović, Mladen Bosić and Borjana Krišto in the Interim Joint Commission. Of the 38 present – 16 for, 21 v, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, 15 against, no abstentions, Republika Srpska – 6 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted a conclusion on the appointment of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to conduct the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure. Moving to point 14. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group on the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of the Officials in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-34-1894/17, from 31.07.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the conclusion, the appointment of Amir Fazlić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Predrag Kožul to the Interresor working group. Of the 38 present – 19 for, 18 v, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 13 for, 11 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 6 for, 7 against, no abstentions. With the general... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
