ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20536	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the council and MPs, please begin the session. I am opening the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Guests are invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House and media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak informed the House that he would not be present for today's session due to earlier commitments; BiH Minister of Communications and Transport Ismir Jusko sent a notice that he could not be present at today's session, and BiH's Ministry of Communications and Transport will attend Deputy Minister Saša Dalipagić. The delay was announced by MP Asim Sarajlić. According to the service, there are 38 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to legislators Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20537	I thank the chairman. Well, here, my question has been raised quite a long time ago, but the esteemed minister wasn't at the sessions, I hope he'll give me an answer today. The question was addressed to Minister Mektić. I am interested – Do security agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina have data that they have been in Trebinje area or the staying persons associated with extreme movements that pose a danger to security? Also – Are security agencies responsible for information that terrorist threats exist in this city? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20538	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Security. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20539	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Working Presidency, the College of the House of Representatives, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The Ministry of Security gives the following answer to the parliamentary question. Agency within the Ministry of Security, i.e. the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, the BiH Border Police Directorate, the BiH Police Coordination Directorate, the Foreign Affairs Service, as well as the BiH Security and Security Agency on the subject, declare themselves that there is no information available in the area of Trebinj, that there were residents or residents associated with extreme movements, nor that there is any information in this city that there are terrorist threats, terrorist organisations that pose a threat to the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20540	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20541	I look forward to the minister's answer, and that's what I expected. This question has been asked to calm the public in Trebinj. In fact, I have been asked by many people from Trebinj for such opportunities as frightened by the fact that the deputy mayor of the City of Trebinj Assembly said that the Dejan Bodiroga basketball camp, which has a ten-year tradition, will not be held this year, or has not already been held because of terrorist threats in Trebinj. Apparently, some of its incompetence, the abolition of such a good project as Dejan Bodiroga's basketball camp, was justified by the intimidation of the population. I'm glad and I really believe Minister Mektić's information that that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20542	Thank you. I give my word to Agent Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20543	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question applies, and I once again ask him, to the violation of the elementary human rights of Nana Fata Orlović from Konjević Polje. I ask the question to the Minister of Human Rights and the complete Council of Ministers of BiH. Namely, all or most of them know very well that Nana Fata Orlović was exposed to a terrible torture, that after the war on her private property, a religious facility was illegally built. So, here, two months ago, I once again asked the competent resolution ministry what seems to be the matter of correcting this injustice, and I also proposed some concrete measures. And today I would like to hear from the Secretary-General – What has been done specifically on this matter so far? I didn't happen to ask in last session of the House if there was a similar example on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory that someone had built an illegal religious property facility, on someone else's property, so on the property of a citizen. And in the end, we heard that there was one example, that he was resolved and that, except for this case, there are no more cases in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. I think it's high time that the issue was resolved in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should also be resolved because the citizens and the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina should turn to the future. And, here, I expect a response from the Council of Ministers of BiH now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20544	Thank you. Deputy Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20545	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Deputys, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Ministers and Deputys, the media and guests. Allow me to answer the parliamentary question of honourable MP Denis Bećirović and thank him for the question. The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees points to the fact that the institution has not received a request from Fata Orlović to launch any activity in resolving this issue, which was conducted at the property-legal request of Fate Orlović. Since we were recently asked a question about this problem, the minister then said we would address the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution. We have been delivered from this institution a response stressing that the Ombudsman institution will not interfere with the decision-making process of the courts, recalling that the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH are final and binding, and that in the event of a verdict in favour of the party to which the Ombudsman institution refers through its recommendations and in clearly defined time frames, it will require the responsible public authorities to take action to implement the verdict. The Ombudsmans stress the problem of the length of the court proceedings, and the fact that the Ombudsman institution has also not received a complaint from any party in this case. The Ombudsman concludes that there are elements that point to the conclusion that there is a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period protected by Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which they have already reported in their annual report, indicating the work of the judiciary. We also questioned the Constitutional Court of BiH, which, in its response to the current status of this case, stated that the appeal of Fata Orlović was filed by the Constitutional Court of BiH on 16.10.2014. The BiH Constitutional Court decided on the appeal of AP-4492/14 at the 106th plenary session of the Constitutional Court held on 28.09.2017. How we've been informed... The BiH Constitutional Court's editorial commission implements... decisions that will be submitted to the appeal within a month... and will be published on the official website of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20546	Thank you. Do you want to comment? Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20547	I must say, I am extremely dissatisfied with the content of the answer. From this answer, it can only be concluded that there is darkness in this country and that there is neither right nor justice here. And as you were saying and showing that there was darkness in this country, I don't know whether it was intentional or accidental, but half the lightbulbs were turned off at that point, I guess they're illustrating this darkness. 4 I am now asking you as a Resort Ministry and the Council of Ministers to provide me with written information within 30 days on the violation of the basic human rights of Nana Fata Orlović with a proposal for concrete measures to help this citizen of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Nana Fata Orlović, no matter how anyone behaves in this country, has become a symbol of the struggle for her birth, a symbol of incompetence and dignity. She's the one. It sends both the current and future generations an important message, and with this I will end it, the message is – the Bosnian-Herzegovina birth group is not for sale and it has no price. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The message is not monoethnic but applies to all good people in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20548	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20549	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues. A while ago, the Agency for Accreditation and Development of Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted a request for admission to the European Association of these agencies called ENKA and the answer that the Agency received is indeed something that every man who cares about the future of this country and each of us individually must be very concerned. In fact, the assessment of the state of higher education that the team has been given to this extent is alarming that it is simply incomprehensible to me. But I understand in this problem there is not enough adrenaline, so the media doesn't follow it properly, but anyway, the assignment of this House and all of us sitting here is to talk very seriously about this problem. In this regard, I asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or Minister Osmanovic, whether the team on this response is truly disappointing, serious, worrying and warning, call it whatever you want, for the perspective and future of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is obvious that this is how it goes it will not go on. This endangers the future of this country and all of us individually, I say it again, and I asked Mr. Osmanović to tell me, to answer me – does the Ministry of Civil Affairs intend to do something about it, and if there is something to do with the intentions of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, regardless of the structure of the country and the competences that are present, all things can be discussed, because people make laws but people change them? Well, in that sense, I'd like an answer, but as far as I can tell, Mr. Osmanović wasn't there. And I have to point out that, that was my question for yesterday's joint session, but by mistake, there's been, here's the question that I'm asking today. Yesterday Mr. Osmanović was here, but today he's not here and I don't know if I can get an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20550	Thank you. Answer, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20551	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the College, honourable MPs and MPs, members of the Council of Ministers. 5 First of all, I would like to thank Ambassador Đonlagić for asking the question. I'll agree with almost 100% of the findings from the question itself. The issue of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina is something that, as you say, there is never enough adrenaline and therefore very often is not interesting for the media, and plus... the ministry's answer will have to stick to what are the constitutional and formal competences of the ministry and therefore follows the answer to your question. During the interpretation and the current event concerning the admission of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH to full membership of the European High Education Insurance Association or ENKA, it should be borne in mind that this is about verifying the quality of work of the Agency and its compliance with European standards... insurance and quality, and that, according to the Agency's management claims, the International Commission of Eminent Quality Insurance Experts appointed by ENKA, during its visit to the Agency, assessed the Agency with a positive assessment. However, the ENKA Committee did not follow the recommendations made by the Commission of experts it appointed. Also, according to the information available to us, the Agency will file an appeal in accordance with the procedure for the first-degree decision of the ENKA Committee. This way, we stress that according to the BiH Framework Law on Higher Education, the Agency is an independent administrative organisation, and that according to established competences for the presentation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in international higher education quality organisations, it has submitted an application for full membership to the ENKA independently of the Ministry of Civil Affairs or any other institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that, therefore, this ministry has, in accordance with ENKA procedures, not so far, nor will it receive any answer on this issue. Respecting the independence and independence of the Agency in its work, and the fact that the Ministry of Civil Affairs is not an intermediary or a communication participant between the ENKA and the Agency answers all questions and the broader information regarding full membership should be explicitly requested from the Agency as an independent administrative organisation. The agency is also the most invited to initiate measures and activities that would lead to full membership in the ENKA, which would certainly have and will have the support of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Civilian Ministry will continue, in co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent educational authorities, as well as with education agencies to undertake intensive activities in reform and to raise the quality of education, including the level of higher education as it has been done so far, and to continue to monitor developments in relation to ENKA membership. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20552	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Does the representative want to comment on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20553	I thank you for the answer, he is, conditionally speaking, correct in the context of political connotations that are now worth high education. However, the answer obtained from this ENKA association is that it is too strong a policy influence, that there is too much policy in education, that there are no established procedures, that there are no constitutional procedures, that the Governing Board of the Agency which, here, I am in that commission who elects board members is directly under the control of politics. So that's one, that's, 33 I've isolated the items from that answer which are a very serious problem and this is just one part of those problems. And I think this is the answer I got, maybe he can't be different, but fix the situation sure won't thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20554	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20555	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, deputies, MPs and all other present, of course and members of the Council of Ministers. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, on two topics we have discussed so far. Last time we got an answer to ask too soon since it was only two years of office. Here, now it's been three years, so let me repeat the question. You have announced the adoption of two draft laws, i.e. presenting two of your objectives during this term of office, is the adoption of the Law on Strategic Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the second is the formation of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. After three years of office, I ask the question – How long have you arrived with the realization of your exposé promises based on which you have, I presume, been given confidence? I believe that's why people voted for you in part. And another thing that's really important, which is the National Security Council that you promised at the very beginning of the term of office. Here, after three years – How long have we arrived with the formation of the National Security Council, where you promised to unite the coordination of all security structures in order to strengthen the security of all of us, is it, citizens and then the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20556	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20557	Dear Chairman, members of the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected fellow members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished media, guests, I welcome you all very much on behalf of me and on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH. These are three questions, and I thank them for the honourable representative Magazinović, and therefore my answer should be six minutes, not two at all, but obviously we are limited in time of two minutes. So, just a few findings. It has not been three years of office, 30 months of the term of office of the BiH Council of Ministers. And everyone in my exposé is just some of the goals that you're asking for right now, and we had other goals there, such as dynamicizing European integration, whether, given the previous eight years of complete blockade, what we've made, is, of course, the realisation of the Italian conditions, given the fact that we haven't found any recorded location, then we've recorded them 30, made a credible progress, so of course economic development given the growth of the GDP that was -0.9% or 1.1%, now goes over 3% with exports of 17.6%, etc. So there were a lot of other goals, but certainly these goals that you're talking about. As far as the National Security Council is concerned, we have significantly improved the coordination and co-operation of all police intelligence agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Treaty with Europol and with all other necessary international agencies is signed, and in addition to that, the fact that, and thank Bog for that, we have a rather stable situation in this regard. In recent, practically two years, there has been no incident that could have been 7 characterized as an act of terrorism or any kind of national impatience. We actively cooperate, we are very reliable partners in both the region and the international frameworks in this regard. And as far as the council itself is concerned, I still think that, regardless of the opposition we have at lower levels, given the competences that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the bodies that exist, which are the Strike Group and the Operational Group, which, above all, deal with terrorism and coordination between police intelligence agencies, could be converted into one kind of council that would be one more serious, additionally serious coordinate all processes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As regards the issues concerning the Development Bank, of course there was such a proposal, it was also proposed in written form, there was a single fund or, here, to tell the bank that would be related to Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic development and investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic capacity, but, of course, such a proposal was not accepted by all members of the Council of Ministers and certainly not by the entity levels of the authorities that we have consulted in this regard. I think such a fund would make significant progress for Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll keep working on it, I'm not up to the end of the Fund optimists, but I am optimistic about the other numerous goals I've highlighted in my exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20558	Thank you, President. Representative's comment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20559	As usual, the answer is not accurate enough not to say it's gone. Chairman, it doesn't take you six minutes to answer these three simple questions, you just need to say five words, which is about five seconds. Those five words - I have not fulfilled the promises made to Parliament, and I am satisfied with that answer. And what you're explaining to us and answering the question that isn't asked is, in some ways, part of the answer and everyone can interpret it for themselves. Therefore, there is no National Security Council, there is no Strategic Investment Act and there is no formation of a Bank for Reconstruction and Development. If I understand correctly, it won't be, so I won't ask you next time, I'll move on to some of the other items in your exposé. And as can be rightly answered, we have seen from your predecessor, Mr. Vojin Mijatović, who, although unable to offer a solution, gave correct and concrete information. And if you were to answer that way, I believe there would be greater satisfaction from the MPs to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20560	Thank you. I give my word to agent Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20561	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues. My question is for Minister Jusk – što has been done to determine the route of Sarajevo – Belgrade? At the end of last year, I and my colleagues submitted an initiative that this route is heading towards Tuzla, Belgrade and Brcko, because all parameters indicate it. We also have the latest 8 media information on President Erduan's last visit to Serbia where the possibility, of course, is announced and the activity of the three mayors of Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina, so here I am asking the Minister of Resorship to say how far it has come along the route, because all parameters suggest that this route should go across northeastern Bosnia.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20562	Thank you. Answer, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20563	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished representatives, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will answer his question, the current situation with this initiative to build a fast road in Sarajevo – Belgrade. Namely, there are currently two paths in option and this route is called Zepce-Tuzla-Bijeljina and other Sarajevo-Pale-Visegrad-Vardište. And the other thing we have there is the position of Serbia that has been unchanged since the very beginning, so they will lead, uh, their part of the road to the point of Kotromani which... Vardište. Now I'd like to say a few words about the current activities of the Ministry regarding this... initiative. On 29 September 2017, the ministry received a response from the Turkish Minister of Economy, which continues to express its readiness to realise the Sarajevo-Belgrade project, however, provided... the route... In line with the special meeting of the entity transport ministers and representatives of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, it was agreed that, following a response from Turkey, entity prime ministers would also be involved in making the final decision on the route. [[You don't understand.]] Following the received response, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, together with representatives of entity ministries, formed a Task Force with the task of taking preparatory actions so that a joint meeting of entity prime ministers and representatives of entity resolution ministries and the Ministry of Communication and Transport could be scheduled to take place in order to reach a joint decision on the route. The first meeting of the Working Group should be held in the coming week, and further necessary activities will be taken after the end of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20564	Thank you. Is there any comment on that? Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20565	I respect entities and their jurisdiction, but this is a business of interest for the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and cannot be done without the institutions of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I therefore ask the Ministry and the Council of Ministers, and all of us here, that this road is built on parameters based on which it decides to build either the highway or the fast road, and that is also the number of people that connects, and the number of vehicles, and the amount of traffic, goods, people, services. So, all arguments contribute to the construction of this road through northeastern Bosnia, via Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina. And I ask that those who make or think that they make a decision to respect these arguments. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20566	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20567	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome the members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, guests and the media. The BiH Institutions' Audit Office has paid special attention to the financial audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget for 2016 by paying off obligations under judicial judgments. In 2016, around 5,400,000 marks were realised in the context of the position of direct transfers for payment of obligations under judicial judgments. Unfortunately, spending on court disputes remains a significant outflow of funds from the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. The funds planned in the institution's 2017 budget are significantly higher and amount to around 8.5 million KM, which means that they do not have a tendency to decrease, but on the contrary, they are increasing from year to year. The results of 2016 mainly relate to compensation for damages on the basis of completed contracts on public procurement, the issue of CEM licences, illegal termination of employment, non-implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court and others. I will mention several international or two international arbitration proceedings currently being conducted or conducted. The first in the case of Elektroprivrede Slovenije in front of the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes in Washington, the value of the dispute is 1.400,000. Two, before The Hague arbitration court on the Strabag AG Vienna suit against the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport worth 1,256,000 marks. The position of the Office for the Audit of Institutions is that a number of disputes arises due to insufficient application of the law, weaknesses in the functioning of the system within institutions, and low level of responsibility and non-domestic behaviour. In view of the above, I would like to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers as responsible, the most responsible in the Council of Ministers – does the Council of Ministers intend to establish a mechanism for determining responsibility for damages done to institutions, i.e. the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, since so far, because of the lack of responsibility and non-domestic attitude towards public funds, no one has responded?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20568	Thank you. Answer, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20569	Hello, everyone, with a desire for successful work. Regarding Mr Sokolović's question, I will base myself on the subject of what the issue contains and what we do and to reduce the damages. It should be said that in the previous years, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury rarely received orders to pay a judicial verdict by the pravobraniteljstvo's office, but their implementation was mainly through the executive procedure, and the payment from the transaction accounts of the Ministry of Finance and the vaults which were carrying certain additional costs. Facing weaknesses in this matter and in order to better co-operate with the Ombudsman, fully respecting the recommendations of the Office for Auditing the Ministry of Finance made an instruction on how to execute or pay executive court rulings through the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. The above instrukcija specify that as the basis for a solution for the payment of judgments 10 can also be the order of the BiH Attorney's Office towards the Ministry to make payments under judicial justice, an executive judicial solution implemented by a business bank in the System of the Single Account of the Treasury. This Instructions shall specify in detail the procedure for the payment of judicial decisions within 15 days of the adoption of a judicial solution with a view to avoiding additional costs from the executive procedure, as well as mutual communication with the Ombudsman in relation to the delivery of payment orders with all necessary elements. The finance ministry has already carried out a number of activities on these, regulating these expenditures, we have launched activities to prepare a software solution that will allow the exchange of data with the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH concerning the judicial tribunals concerning the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have formed an expert team with the task of preparing and exchanging data with the High Court and Prosecutor's Council where the software solution will, first of all, provide an up-to-date record of all judicial verdicts and the necessary elements for the execution of payments to be made within the time limit for voluntary implementation in cooperation with We have considered the possibility, through the records available to the VSTV,... allowing for more advanced budget planning and a series of others, I will give you this in writing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In 2016, a commitment was paid on this basis of 5,364,000 which is certainly a significant amount. However, in 2015 8 million 320 were paid, which is much less and this new way, in my opinion, brings results. It is only necessary to draw particular attention to the fact that, in the amount of judgments paid for 2016, the amount of 1,460,000 marks refers to the judicial verdicts, the payment of the costs of transport, the warm meal, the separate life of judges, prosecutors and other categories of professional staff employed by judicial institutions. You know we've sent a bill to prevent even greater damage. He was adopted at the House of Representatives, but not at the House of Peoples. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20570	Thank you, Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20571	Here, I thank the Minister for the information, but the essence of my question was – are there mechanisms? This is part of it, so something's going on, I didn't even argue that the Council of Ministers is not doing anything about it, but we don't have concrete measures. I, if anyone remembers, alone during the debate of the Council of Ministers' work for 2016 just mentioned this example of Strabag, someone here is responsible, this one, and if the firm won the tender in the morning, and in the evening someone canceled that tender and introduced the third performer, means there's someone in that chain to sit in jail. That is what I am interested in. What does the Council of Ministers do about it? I know it's not the present of this Council of Ministers, it's the tails that have been pulling for many years, but it's up to this Council of Ministers to establish a mechanism that doesn't happen in the future and that A few of those behind bars that, uh, against public money are treated like this, not to say, here's how, because I can't say directly that someone is responsible or not, but the figures speak, way of behavior and work that something very bad is happening and it needs to be discovered through the mechanism and thus prevent this further activity. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. I'm sorry about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20572	Thank you. 11 I give the counsel to Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20573	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. My question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers – What has the BiH Council of Ministers done in this term specifically to facilitate the transition and doubt of traffic at border crossings in Bosnia and Herzegovina and when will it permanently resolve the issue of traffic and the opening of small-scale crossings of Hadgin Potok, Tržačka Rastela and Zagrada for traffic and traffic of people and goods? I apologize in advance to all of you who, here, listen to me asking this question for who knows which way, but simply because of the need, for the interest of a huge number of people, I have to tell you that I come from an electoral unit where almost half of the people had a problem of this kind, so I can't be surprised that we're in a position to talk about this problem for almost three years, and where, in fact, to tell us, what is it that keeps us from being more alert, more agile, and at least that way, we help people. So, this problem, as I said, especially he has recently been observed in the area of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is extremely relevant in the space of the UN-San canton. I have to admit that something's started to work, so they have some shifts, but they're not enough to say that we could talk about something, I'd say, especially for these people. One is a border crossing, one is a small border crossing open to traffic between goods and people, and in this three months, it has shown this enormous justification because it averaged between 20,000 and 25 thousand crossings in one month alone. So those huge crowds are now down by about two hours, at that main border crossing, now reduced to about an hour and a half. So my question is and therefore I appeal that this demarcated transition which, which now points out the validity of the openness on November 1st, continues to be extended because it has shown justification for it, because it has proved possible to do so, is now only necessary that what was temporarily extended to three months over and over again, and that finally the initiative is launched, i.e. finally the process to open and these other two crossings, given that there is a huge interest, that there is already this and justification, there are reasons and that, in this sense, by opening these two new demarcated crossings, this issue is being resolved permanently by crowds and congestion. That way we could say here These problems I've been talking about for a long time. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20574	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20575	I thank you anyways for asking. As the esteemed representative Šepić said, we have been actively working on a problem that is almost 20 years old and of course could and should have been solved before, but we accept all the reasons why we should now be committed to solving this issue precisely because of the residents who need it. As for the border crossing of Hadjin Potok-Godovolja, it opened on 01.08.This year for a period of 3 months to 01.11. and it will continue to work, because it means a significant discharge of the Maljevac-Izačić border crossing, and it is about the pretegorisation from cross-border to international which, of course, can be used by all citizens not only by those with a pass, so that its status will continue and everything that depends on Bosnia and Herzegovina will be regulated at this point and can make this transition fully functional. As for the border crossing of 12 Tržaška Rastela, it is, of course, open to border traffic, but we have a 5km problem not on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, but is located on the territory of Croatia which has run for the European Commission and still has no answer from the European Commission, and they do not have the budget funds to pave the way at this time. And so far, according to the information we received in the conversation, they have invested more than 500,000 euros in the equipment of the facilities at the crossing. In 10 days, there will be a meeting of the Mixed Commission, I insisted that this issue be put on the agenda again and see if Bosnia and Herzegovina, to find the modeality, we are ready to participate in the overall implementation and completion of the project, regardless of whether it is the territory of the Republic of Croatia and those 5 km of time to be completed, which would then permanently be in office, would be re-tegorised and would significantly help residents, first of all, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the Zagrad-Pasin Potok border crossing, at this point representatives of the Mixed Commission in front of the Republic of Croatia are not agreed to open the crossing, nor to reach their retegorisation. Twice that was on the agenda, both times we have a negative response from the Republic of Croatia for the transition.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20576	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20577	I can do it for a while. So, thank you, Chairman, regarding the continuation of this Hadgin Creek, it's important that you say and guarantee that this will continue to work after 01.11. So it's an important thing. Regarding tržački Raštel my appeal, again send initiatives towards the Croatian side to do what is up to us. And please, while I'm standing up here, there's a theme and a UN railroad standing somewhere about 3-4 months from the Croatian side is ready, from our institutions ready, put it on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, that and in that sense we have some positive answer, because I have... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Great, so we have some positive opinion from the Croatian side and we can use our... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20579	Thank you. I give my word to MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20580	Thank you. I ask my question on behalf of the FIPA staff group, and the short question is for the chairman Zvizdić – Is it also if it is when the term of office of the FIPA Management Board has expired? 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20581	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20582	Of course a brief question, a clear question, a brief question and an answer. Earlier, only a note that, according to the Foreign Investments Agency Act, it is prescribed that the FIPA Management Board has 9 members, named for the two-year term of office of the BiH Council of Ministers, one member, one member of the Federation Government and the Government of Republika Srpska, one member appointed the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, two members represent the business community in a way that one is appointed by the Federation's Association of Employers, and the other Alliance of Employers of Republika Srpska and finally appointed two members by the Council, i.e. the Council of Foreign Investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, a total of 9 members, of those 9 members, have expired for 4 members and for two members who come before the Council of Ministers of BiH and members who come before entity governments. Entity governments have already been asked to appoint their new members, and as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, these new members will be appointed as far as possible along with the entity within 30 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20583	Thank you. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20584	Of course, of course. What is missing in response to President Zvizdić's response is to say that five years ago, the term of office ended for members who came before the Council of Ministers and that one of the members and your secretary-general, who also expired in the Council of Ministers, who has been working outside the mandate for two years. Therefore, I would ask you to provide me with your reply in writing and to extend the amount of compensation paid for the work of the Management Board over the last five years since the term of office for members coming before the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20585	Thank you. And now the MPs and the MPs are moving on to the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Representative Damir Arnaut reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20586	I thank the chairman. The material is divided, based on Article 71. I propose a new item of the agenda – Information on the type, number, intensity and cost of visits and travel by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina to other countries, as well as the purpose of the same for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. 14 A brief explanation: The provision of data available on the official Internet presentation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the poglavlje – currentity found that Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak had 44 different trips during less than 10 months 2017, i.e. visits to other countries. Copies of all these reports from their site are attached. Given the same data, only four visits are described as official, one as bilateral, whatever that means, each visit to another country is bilateral, while other trips relate to participation in conferences, forums, opening facilities and the like. At the same time, as all of us here know, Minister Crnadak is hardly ever attending meetings of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, including joint sessions. In the media, the minister said he described his job to travel, and compared it with other foreign ministers in the world. With that in mind, here's the comparison. According to available data, Mrs Hilari Klinton, one of the most active US secretary of state in the country's history, had the following number of travels during her term: 2011. - 24 different travels, reminding Crnadak 44; 2010. – 21 different journeys, Crnadak 44; 2009 - 15 different trips. This raises the question why Minister Crnadak is ahead of Mrs Klinton in the number of individual travels, and is almost equal by the number of countries he visited, equal to Mrs Klinton, and one of the most active state secretaries in the history of the United States. I also have data and copies for 2016, I really didn't want to burden the service, because this is much thicker because it's all over 2016, 61 different travel. So, in continuity Minister Crnadak has an average of five trips per month, 61 for 12 months in 2016, 44 for less than 10 months in 2017. Also, according to data available on the foreign ministry website, Minister Crnadak held only two phone calls this year, one with Macedonia's foreign minister and one with the Španija ambassador. And right now phone conversations should actually be the activity of the foreign minister, because this would be about continuity, in such conversations, for example, these border crossings and other important issues, rather than just walking to open objects. In any case, I propose that the House of Representatives discuss this issue and adopt conclusions that arise from such a debate, all with a view to protecting and promoting the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20587	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20588	I thank the chairman. I think the inclusion of this point is absolutely pointless. Of course, these trips are also a promotion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest and I guess some lobbying for Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests. I have to say that I'm worried when I heard about this comparison with the secretary of the United States of America, Mrs. Hilari Klinton, because when you're Hilari Klinton and you're the secretary of the United States, then everyone comes to your feet, but when you're small and powerless, like us, then you have to go and lobby for your interests. And the job of the foreign minister is to lobby for interests and I'm afraid then these indicators show that Igor Crnadak has traveled far less than this country needs. So, Hilari Klinton 46 trips, a woman whose whole world comes to her feet, and who, and her officers ask how to vote 15, where. And we should go and beg for support. And we support, certainly Minister Crnadak has done very much, so he has done very much for the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina by lobbying on Brussels-based conditions. And I will remind you that at one time in the past Council of Ministers and the one where your Minister Alkalaj was sitting and we have a far greater number of travels, then our conditions for handing over a credible application were to resolve the verdict of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20589	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20590	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My guilty allegation, i.e. the replica, refers to Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević's earlier presentation, which tries to defend what is indefensible, because we are all aware in this House of Ministers of Foreign Affairs, whose engagement and work in the previous three years has given the least, of all ministers, the country's least benefit. And I absolutely agree, and I support that this point is going to the debate of this Parliament, but I think it is not appropriate that we do it today, that it is going today, but perhaps for some next session because we received the material half an hour ago and in addition to your point of view, that is to say, all the arguments for the agenda stand, so where he went, why he went and what the results of that journey were. We need to read it and prepare quality for this debate. And as for the effect of his work, when I came forward to say, so besides costing the country's taxpayers very expensively, so also the Federation and Republika Srpska for walking and traveling, his travels have produced a very negative effect especially on the Republic of Serbia. This is one of the few examples, I think today, to this day the only example of a minister from the Serb people's council of ministers who used his position to blaspheme and defamation the institutions of Republika Srpska, as he did in Brussels and Salzburg, we heard and saw it on the media, where he also blasphemed very sharply and inappropriately the institution of the president and the institution of the Republika Srpska government. Now, that was paid by taxpayers, one part of the money was provided for Igor Crnadko's journey, and it's unacceptable and we are particularly interested in carrying out the debate and seeing if it's his mission as a minister from the Serbian people's order to the Council of Ministers to do so. And by contrast, the SNSD Club is at the beginning of its mandate, and I think that through the parliamentary issues we have repeatedly addressed the request to revise as foreign minister, i.e. introduce more order into Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomatic consular network and deal with it. It's obvious that man Besides this many trips he didn't get to deal with, because here's the information that only two phone calls were made in three years, what he means is that man went to the field to work, but what he went to the field costing this country very little use and effect. [[the speaker is warned on time]] By contrast, he was raped to slander Republika Srpska's institutions that have not done any previous minister who has not been of the order of the Serb people, such as Sven Alkalaj, such as Labumdžija and others, it is the only one [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20591	Thank you. 16 Before I give my word, I ask all MPs and MPs to abide by the Rules of Procedure and for the time that we have. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20592	Thank you. Just a very short time for my colleague Marković, this is a procedure, so it opens up, puts it on the agenda, and then the conclusions come out, and then we with these conclusions, in fact it's the only mechanism we have available, we task the Foreign Ministry to provide us with all the information. So, I'm like an MP here a little handicapped, because I can only rely on the foreign ministry website that gives me this information and that are really catastrophic. I say, here for 2016 is even fatter, uh, rebel, so to speak, but in any case, the average is clear, five trips a month. I really admire how a man can get here. Now, when it comes to this comparison with the distinguished Mrs. Klinton again, look, look, I've delivered everything here where all Minister Crnadak has traveled. If he had been here for three years, two and seven months, as Mr. Zvizdić's vassal, he'd have visited the U.S. Secretary of State, I wouldn't have opened this debate. But Mr. Crnadak has no such visits, and now you're telling the U.S. Secretary of State people are going on their feet. Well, if our minister had such a visit, I wouldn't be opening this question. I don't want to mention any individual country because it would be risky to offend anyone, but the fact is that there are no most important countries in the world on this list, and also when there are meetings in some of these countries, look at it mostly comes down to opening objects, attending cultural events, etc. And I therefore believe that the House of Representatives should open this debate today, the debate will give rise to different conclusions, I am sure that different clubs will have different conclusions, and then through these conclusions, among other things, the MIP can also be tasked with delivering certain answers, certain data, ultimately and comparable data with the predecessors of Mr Crnadko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20593	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20594	I would like to say that colleague Damir Arnaut has apparently very systematically prepared this agenda point and that as far as the SDP Club is concerned, we will support putting this into the agenda. I think it's a good thing for you as well, as well as to suggest that SNSD MPs have also supported this as a part of the agenda. Why am I saying that? Because they have made a huge contribution to the route to NATO, to the head of the SNSD, from Nebojša Radmanović, colleagues Nikola Špirić, Živković, etc. On the other hand, counterpart Igor Crnadak, the foreign minister, in these three years, has been hard atonement for these foreign policy goals, which is our path to the NATO Alliance, and I think, my colleague Arnaut probably planned it during the discussion to point out that this is a classic abuse of office by the foreign minister, and he should certainly receive certain political sanctions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20595	Thank you. 17 Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20596	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. My colleagues, colleagues, MPs and MPs. First, I ask the service to provide me with all the information they provided to Damir Arnaut regarding Igor Crnadko. So all the data that the service has provided to a colleague of Arnaut to deliver to me, so I'm going to check those phone conversations and eventually it's obvious that some have access to the services in a completely different way than other colleagues. As far as the agenda point is concerned, there is no problem in discussing this and every other item of the agenda, to discuss the contribution of anyone sitting here in Parliament and every minister in these three years, and the work of this Parliament and the work of the Council of Ministers, so I don't even have a problem with this, I don't think it's a bad topic. We could also discuss other ministers, directors of agencies, roads, at different levels, deputies, etc. But since the proposal is only Mr. Crnadak, it's probably Mr. Crnadko's problem that he tried to fix relations at the level of the diplomatic network and that's exactly where he shouldn't have. I'm surprised it bothered my colleague Arnaut, I think it was more of a distraction than he was.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20597	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20598	I thank the chairman. Article 7(1) of the Rules of Procedure states that the MP has the rights and duties established, not to list, among other things, the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates. Please do not allow this kind of address to the services of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly because these are the pressures. So here I am now saying that I had no help from Parliament's service that, I am aware that I am younger than my colleague Novaković, so I use the internet well, and my colleagues from the Club can confirm that I came to the office a little early this morning, I found everything on the Internet and on the BiH Foreign Ministry website. So it can't be more transparent, these are Mr. Crnadko's data, including these two phone conversations. And if you need them, don't put pressure on the service, here, I'll give you copies, and after all, copies of the travel are already divided, nothing to do with the services, no pressure on the services.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20599	Please, I haven't seen where the injuries are involved, where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is. I didn't see it. I listened very carefully to you and Mr. Momčilo Novaković. So there's no absolute damage, please take care of the Codex as well. Today, each of you takes the right to interpret the Codex. If necessary, then it should be done as requested by the Codex. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20600	Thank you very much. 18 About these violations of the Rules of Procedure, I launched an initiative two years ago on the replacement of Minister Crnadko for one reason and unfortunately it was never on the agenda. Someone broke procedures in this House, which is why I don't know. I asked for one reason then, because he banned foreign ministry employees from participating in the 20th anniversary of the Potocari genocide when more than one statesmen and ministers from around the world came to Potocara. But here, it's up to you why it wasn't on the agenda and you probably know the answer to that, but let me get back to what my colleague Arnaut started. I think this Parliament has a right, the problem is that it does not discuss what it should. So, we never discuss the work of all agencies at the state level, we don't even know what the situation is there, I'm not sure that in all agencies it's a good situation. In principle, I have no problem with the foreign minister traveling, but I have a problem if these trips are in vain. I therefore think that one such kind of debate should be opened in Parliament and see if it or not had any purpose, how close Bosnia and Herzegovina is to the European Union in the last three years or how close it has been to NATO's pact this past three years. So this could get answers from all these trips and discussions and everything the minister's been doing lately. But we have a problem that ministers travel even to neighbouring countries, and they do not open the most important topics that are the problem between countries, from the various topics that we have updated here in Parliament. So, never, or we don't know that they were the topics of talks between ministers and ministers, among other things, foreign affairs. With regard to this, therefore, there is no need to run away in this House to talk about anything. So that doesn't mean someone's guilty or not guilty. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20601	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20602	I must first look at the guilty allegations by my colleague Marković that Minister Crnadak is doing nothing to clean up the chaos in the DKP. The chaos remained behind Mrs. Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic, who apparently had little time to deal with the team, as she walked around the world much more than Igor Crnadko, but walked to lobby for NATO. And I'm glad to see here today that Minister Crnadak is actually a target because of his NATO statements. And here we have one coalition, SNSD, SBB, SDP and, behold, a respected colleague of Ahmetović, whose target is Minister Crnadak because of his stance towards NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20603	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20604	I really said I don't mind, so I'm not saying the minister is guilty. I said two years ago why I think the minister is guilty. What the College didn't put on the agenda, that's the problem with the College, but I don't have a problem with the minister going a hundred times somewhere, but if it benefited Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't know if she was benefiting, so I don't know if I'm even a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission. I wish the minister had spent more time getting to the Foreign Affairs Act that we don't have, and because of the absence of that 19 law, we have chaos when it comes to both the Ministry and foreign policy and everything that is a problem in the country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20605	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20606	Thank you. We had one newspaper now, Mrs. Pandurević usually has certain parties that attack, but today she listed us all, SBB, SDP, Independent Block, SNSD, only that continuity in its action did not attack the SDA and must never attack the SDA, as Mr. Crnadak must not attack Bakir Izetbegović. I congratulate you on your principled continuity in your actions and relations with your coalition partner, the Party of Democratic Action. So, when it comes to what Mr Ahmetović listed, exactly, I couldn't agree more. So, the Foreign Affairs Act, the Regulation on the evaluation of ambassadors and other international representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina I have been trying since March 2015, trying to get an answer to what is wrong with this Regulation, so first they pleaded, Mr. Crnadak responds – see, this has not been adopted before because of the bad relations between Mr. Komišić and Mr. Lagumdžija. So now more time has passed after he and Ivanić were in the presidency, than Komšić and Lagumdžija were, there is no regulation. So it was all excuses, excuses, excuses. And let me tell you, when someone can't make more than two phone calls a year from a long journey, how they're going to pass the law, how they're going to adopt the rulebook. I think it's absolutely clear that we have a chaotic situation, and that's why I suggested that this be discussed at Parliament. Now, this is a proposal for a agenda point, we can't get into the essence of all the issues, but I'm sure that this is a point that needs to be put on the agenda, to get into the essence of all the issues, so that we can all say what we think about this, to suggest different conclusions, and then commit the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to finally commit ourselves to our work, and not, as I said, to needless travels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20607	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20608	Well, what I said earlier about Minister Crnadk absolutely didn't mean anything by it, nor does it have anything to do with a NATO story, such as Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević reported that something was replicating me and correcting the false allegations of what I said. So Igor Crnadak, both as a person and as a foreign minister, according to his behaviour and actions, is a completely irrelevant link in the NATO story, because some others in this country are far more invited to say views on the NATO story and on Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for SNSD and Republika Srpska, we have expressed our position and you know very well that the recent National Assembly has also brought a declaration about it, but as usual you are not interested in the views of the institutions of Republika Srpska and so today you are pushing that 20 is important for Igor Crnadko. Igor Crnadak is a marginal figure because he is as he is and as a minister and as a man cannot make a significant contribution to move some things or do them right. What SNSD expected most from Igor Crnadko, and what he did not do, is deal with the story and state in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina and create more order. The second story he had issued from the foreign ministry recently was the Foreign Affairs Act, which he will not safely finish until the end of his term, for another year, because he does not have the capacity to do so, nor is he seriously working on it, but is only prolonging. Every time he says it'll be in July, it'll be in December, it'll be next year, it'll be like this. So, he is completely incompetent and has proved himself to be a man who has neither the will nor the way to move some things on the plan which, i.e. the Ministry and the Resor who took over and its effects of work are absolutely unsatisfactory for both Bosnia and Herzegovina, and looking for individuals and citizens as a whole. That is why we believe that it deserves the attention of one item of the agenda in our House to bring about this debate and to see, of course, its effects of work, as well as the costs that it has produced and the taxpayers of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20609	Thank you Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20610	Thank you. Dear Coelga Arnuat when you're elaborated, then give it to the end. She never even attacked HDZ. Also in preparing your point You are here forgetting the crucial fact, if we want to discuss it, that we do not have one, but four foreign ministers. We have a disharmonic trident, a presidency acting as foreign ministers, so the foreign minister is in a large number of cases entirely eliminated from the process of talks that are very important to this country. And travel, look at the number of trips of that disharmous trident, or, I don't know, the triangular presidency. Three heads that draw on all sides, each on their own and cannot approach one body, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20611	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20612	So it is obvious that there is a need here for all kinds of criticism to be brought down on the distinguished Minister Igor Crnadko who, in my opinion, is just doing his job. After all, when it comes to Banja Luka and Republika Srpska, the only ministerial conference ever held at the level of ministers in Banja Luka is organised by Igor Crnadko. So, all these visits if they resulted in foreign ministers organising this kind of activity, that you, or the government that makes up Republika Srpska, did not put that position in Republika Srpska's interest to get more investors and all those with whom to establish communication, that is not the problem of Igor Crnadko. So, as for you fellow Arnaut and this proposal, this kind of approach and consideration of the work of ministers, we can consider them through the Council's report on the work of 21 ministers. Issuing the position of only the foreign minister from the entire Council of Ministers really makes no sense, certainly there is a need. After all, I am an advocate of the following, that in addition to what I was talking about, and it is about parliamentary oversight, this should be done by this Parliamentary Assembly, by which we should pass a law on the Parliamentary Assembly, so that, if Bog were to introduce a practice they have, for example. The Nijemac, who are brought by the minister, not only the Crnadko, but every other minister and his deputy and his cabinet in front of these MPs, and that in open issues, without ministers and MPs preparing for 24 hours or seven days to prepare to answer the question and then we will make a parliamentary point of view. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm not asking you anything and don't throw it away because it's against the Rules of Procedure. So that's what the Parliamentary Assembly should do, not create a event and throw smoke bombs about how you filmed it on the basis of the observed travels of Minister Crnadko. Is that... or what you need to determine, therefore, the responsibility of Minister Crnadko. If this is the way, therefore, where the minister traveled, is the criterion by which the work of Minister Crnadko or the activities he carried out during his work is determined. I would say, however, that the minister was just doing his job, as well as a distinguished colleague whom you called incorrectly. As for our relationship with the Party of Democratic Action all that we believe is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, which is contrary to the Party of Democratic Action, or any political party here, we have made our position absolutely clear and unequivocal. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20614	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20615	I think we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point, even if it's not on the agenda, because we've all expressed our views. What I have now reported is the fact that, and what bothers me, is the identification of SNSD and Republika Srpska, as counterpart Marković said. So we also made our position clear about NATO integration. The fact that we weren't at the National Assembly is someone else's question, not those declarations that were adopted there, you know that as well as I do. And what seems to me to be unclear, or not clear enough, is that I asked to be supplied with all the information that has been submitted to the motionary. If nothing is delivered, then nothing will be delivered to me and I don't see what the problem is. If a copy of the phone calls has not been delivered to me, neither should I, unless the rest of these, uh, trips are delivered, I don't need to see what the problem is, which I suspect to someone, and now I am rightly doubting that some MPs are misusing party colleagues who are present, working on the positions of civil servants, and not just civil servants, but also the householder. I say it responsibly and that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20616	Thank you. 22 Advocacy Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20617	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome everyone present in the hall. So, Mr. Backović, let me just say that it's not exactly his quote. So, I'm going to remind him of just one, so I'm going to call him that, by calling or attacking the SDS on HDZ when I proposed amendments and amendments to the Charter of Fundamental and Medium Education, but thank him very much for reminding him that HDZ BiH exists on this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20618	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20619	I think it would be good if, in the sea of these replicas, they didn't blur and forget the capital facts, and those capital facts are the following. The first jurisdiction, competence for foreign policy and Euro-Atlantic integration is the exclusive jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this stands clearly in the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, and there is no debate about it. Secondly, unanimously, representatives of all citizens and peoples and all competent authorities have made a decision to go to NATO. And now we could read all of these documents, from that 2005 Defence Act, which was unanimously adopted, which says that we will spend everything we need to be a NATO member and signed in the Official Messenger by the chairman of the House of People and the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Nikola Špirić signed it on behalf of the House of Representatives. In 2008, we adopted the Resolution of both Houses of Parliament unanimously, signed by also the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr Milorad Živković. It is no longer our place to discuss what we have concluded, we should just do it now, and the fact that someone mentions some unauthorized resolution of lower levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are completely without any legal relevance, because it is clear who is in charge of it, who made the decisions for it. So it's our unanimous decision who wants to put things back in motion to restart the procedure to change it. Until it changes in every country, even in this country, there is a legal fact of decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20620	Thank you. Before the next MP gets his word, I also warn you, MP, and many others who have violated the Rules of Procedure, using it in a way that they report under the correction of the wrong assumption and do not say anything that you have corrected, here you are, as you are now a colleague of Bećirović, and you are opening up and having a debate, you want to say something under that point. I ask all of you, in the case of correcting the wrong allegations, which has been given by the Rules of Procedure, to abide by it. Representative Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Denis Bećirović now, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20622	Well, I, the right to tell you, I didn't expect you to quote some business provisions, but since it's already occurred to you, do you want me to start speaking now that you've given all the rules of the Rules of Procedure a flagrant violation? What does it say to you when you should have called and how many times a joint session of the House, how many times you haven't done it, how many times you've interrupted your MPs here and allowed your party colleagues to step over the allowed time and not to list further. Be principled, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20623	Thank you very much. I'll be principled and consistent. Your right as counsel and everyone is to warn of business provisions, but, of course, not to abuse them. And this time you abused the Rules of Procedure. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20624	Thank you. Dear colleague Lovrinović, you have not set an example that gives what I was talking about. This was about a debate about even taking part in the agenda point, or a point, which you... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here, I said one thing and the other, which you tried to suggest. So this is about something else entirely, a discussion about the agenda and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20626	Thank you. Debate, MP Mladen Bosić, colleague, deputy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20627	Dear MPs. I propose a new agenda item called the Declaration on the criteria for defining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo. Sir, Ambassador Hazim Rančić has already opened the topic in the first part of the session and we have heard some further information from the assistant minister. The declaration is politically neutral and tries to draw attention to the fact that when determining where citizens' money will be invested, criteria must be respected which are clear and which are exact and easy to prove. If Bosnia and Herzegovina and both entities and all its citizens are to pay highways or roads through excise duties or in any other way by paying off loans, then decisions on where to invest that money must be in the interest, or in the best interests of those citizens. In this case, political will was created in bilateral or trilateral meetings between Bosnia and Herzegovina's (BiH) executive authorities and 24 Republika Srpska. That included the Republic of Turkey, which has pledged to financially help build ties between Sarajevo and Belgrade. And the link between these two cities, it will exist in various ways, both through Corridor 5c and other ways, but the importance of this integration is also in internal traffic, i.e. in connecting cities, regions, businesses within both countries. If you take any real criteria, means the number of citizens who would use this future highway or the fast road, it doesn't matter what will be agreed, if you take the cost-effectiveness criteria of that investment, which will certainly be large in each variant and will burden a society this poor, it is clear that this route should go through Belgrade – Bijeljina – Brcko – Tuzla – Sarajevo. I address MPs to support this Declaration, which only indicates that we must be responsible for decisions taken by the authorities, especially when they are available and those decisions concern the money of citizens who are asked to finance all of this. So this proposal for a declaration is not against any other route, it stresses that we also support any long ties between the regions, and the states, and Belgrade and Sarajevo. So, we're not against anyone, but we're asking to appreciate that the interest of both the Republika Srpska and the citizens of the Republika Srpska and the Federation and the citizens of the Federation is exactly this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20628	Thank you, fellow deputy. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20629	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and others present in this room. I would look back on what Mr. Bosić said and what Mr. Bosić suggested. First of all, I think this is an unnecessary declaration for one simple reason that we have witnessed, so we have heard from the Honorable Deputy Minister, that all levels of government in charge of travel, i.e. traffic infrastructure are having intensive talks and, as I recall, one of such important meetings, when it comes to the route, will be in the next week. And what is very important is to point out that we respect the contributions of all those who support the construction of the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway, respecting, of course, all those who make a constructive contribution. I am not sure that this Declaration is a constructive contribution for one simple reason why I want to remind my colleagues, and perhaps I am not well-informed enough so let someone correct me from my colleagues, never the House of Representatives brought such declarations when... traffic and infrastructure jobs and works in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't see why even now the House of Representatives would do so when we have full information from the minister-in-chief to conduct all kinds of talks within Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Bosnia and Herzegovina and the competent institutions are also holding talks with Turkey. So I think that some kind of political neutrality in this context is absolutely not necessary. On the other hand, I have to say that the worrying fact that the name Declaration stands – Declaration on the criteria for defining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo, and in the third point of view of the declaration, it says that the House of Representatives represents an idea solution to the route of Belgrade – Bijeljina – Brčko – Tuzla – Sarajevo which, in my opinion, is quite contradictory because I am not sure that we have the capacity as A representative home to determine that criterion is the most profitable, which is the best, etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm not saying this isn't the best solution, but please let's be completely realistic, that those who do this job, in accordance with constitutional jurisdiction, define which is the course. I'll finish the chairman's very number 25, please excuse me, I think it would be very correct, and given the fact that part of the travel communication to Belgrade will go through Republika Srpska, that the House of Representatives does not declare this issue in this way. I would say it is too superficial, while the competent institutions, primarily the Ministry of Transport, or the Government of Republika Srpska, together with the Federation government, the Council of Ministers does not define the issue. I think that this is how it is prejudged, and that the predstavnički of Representatives is not competent in that it offers such solutions, especially because it is neither competent nor compatible with one part of this country, which is Republika Srpska and its competent institutions. Therefore, I would ask you to withdraw this as a proposal for a agenda. and leave it to the competent authorities to bring this matter into line and of course, when they agree and inform us. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20630	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20631	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Well, I really need to say a few words about this matter. First, I think this Declaration is completely pretentious. There are institutions in this country, both at the state level and at the entity level, that are in charge of certain things. Taking over the role of the Republika Srpska government to agree with the Federation government on these issues is too pretentious. If you add another important thing to that, which is that it's 25, I think, 7. Members of the Federation House of Representatives adopted the path of the future. So, the Federation has adopted the path of the future road which is the one Mr. Bosić has not introduced in his Declaration. Then I wonder if it's gratitude and support for why we do it to certain parties we need when we need them, when they decide whether we're part of the congregation's majority or not, or which other reason it might be that before there's an official agreement between the entities and, ultimately, with the Serbian government, it's going into this kind of pointless adventure called the Declaration on the criteria for defining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo. The minister of traffic and connections said that according to the Road Infrastructure Development Strategy, Republika Srpska will always stand behind those roads that were estimated to be necessary. So I wonder why Mr. Bosić needed this in a sea of problems that we have in realising the entity's jurisdiction over Bosnia and Herzegovina. Enter one such support before the official position of two units is agreed is extremely unfair and contrary to the interests of Republika Srpska. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20632	Thank you. Deputy, colleague Mladen Bosić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20633	First of all, this is an initiative, or we're talking about a project of interstate character. This means that this Parliament, even when decisions are made, will have to be reaffirmed and 26 will approve the whole project. And that is the basis on which I ask this previous question, before it happens, so that those negotiating do not consider what it is that this Paralament is going to insist on, and I ask that it is now determined that it will be criteria that will ensure the greatest interest of citizens and of one and another entity. Secondly, this is not about the position of the Republika Srpska government, I am not entering the position of the Republika Srpska government. We here express the political will on the basis of which a representative of the Council of Ministers, i.e. Minister or Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina, should act, because we here must represent the interests of our citizens. We here represent the interests of citizens who voted for us, we do not represent the interests of any other state. Every country has its own interest in some kind of domain. We here need to represent the citizens, so I understand my role, and I could guess who might object to such a clear suggestion of what to do. Therefore, the eventual adoption of this Declaration would have an impact only and primarily on the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of the Council of Ministers, i.e. those negotiating on behalf of the executive authority, which this House of Representatives, i.e. this Parliament voted. So, charges of doing something here against Republika Srpska's interest On the contrary, I demand that the interests of the citizens of Republika Srpska be respected and determined through the Republika Srpska route which will have the largest and economic effect and which will have a traffic that will be able to justify the huge investment that will be invested in it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If that matches the interests of the Federation and the citizens of the Federation, well done, then we've solved the problem. If both entities have a common interest, as they do here in this case, I think it's great and it should be commendable, not some source of conflict again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20634	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20635	This is even worse, as I've heard you say now. You say you are not entering the position of the Republika Srpska government but are manifesting political will at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You were elected by the citizens of Republika Srpska and your role is primarily to protect the interests of Republika Srpska, which I remind you of when you occasionally forget. And I ask you also what you would do if entities fail to reach an agreement, will this Parliament have anything to determine? If that doesn't happen, this Parliament has nothing to determine. So, there has to be an agreement between entities on everything, including the route, and there's no need for you to jump out with the Declaration that, the arrangements are very far away, why you have needs, except to help some to make their voice stronger here in the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20636	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20637	Well, here I wouldn't get into these questions, maybe jurisdiction in this way too. I will remind you that, in fact, the Council of Ministers adopted a document last year called Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Transport Strategy for a future period. The 27 documents were defined by highway routes and fast roads, it seems to me, consistent or to a good extent consistent with the competent entity institutions. Within the Framework Transport Strategy, there are several directions connecting Sarajevo and Belgrade. Within this Framework Transport Strategy and these directions are mentioned all the places that Bosić listed in this Declaration, at a different level, listed in this proposal for a agenda point. It seems to me that this Declaration is unnecessary and one prejudge of documents, this, which will certainly be discussed, documents that already exist. In the area where I come from, there is a saying – to return the child to the mother, I would say here that this should be left here, this topic, or the child mother, and in part of the jurisdiction and part of the profession. So this Declaration to me is one prejudge or, in a way, one kind of pressure on the subject that already seems to me, more well worked out, better aligned, so I would say, one of the few topics that at the level of this Framework Transport Strategy is harmonised between this level at which we and entity levels. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And it seems to me that this topic inside of what's there... is, uh, solved without, uh, husbands, these documents that are a bit of a cobweb.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20638	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20639	Of course, it does, the correction to Mr. Bosić's discussion. Of course we know that this is an interstate project, and no one is slowing it down, it is quite clear that it is an international project and the importance of an international project is connecting two cities, two countries, is something we all look forward to and we want it to be as soon as possible. But one thing you may have forgotten is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a country, I would say, without internal borders, or that Bosnia and Herzegovina can make some kind of decision itself, or a common level, without the entity's views, in this case of Republika Srpska. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course, the Federation and the Brcko District. Therefore, I think it is prejudge, is that this declaration is unnecessary. And I also want to remind you of the last position in your explanation that says – therefore, I expect the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Transport and Communications to start immediately with the necessary preparations and activities to start construction of the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway as soon as possible. How can it be without the entity ministry, without the treatment of acts, strategies, spatial plans of Republika Srpska? What can the Ministry of Traffic at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, what can the Council of Ministers do without competent institutions in Republika Srpska and their position on the issue? No one here is slow, this may be a solution, but we don't know him today, this is not the position of the institutions of Republika Srpska. So I ask you once again not to complicate the situation, to leave it to the governments of the entity, to the Council of Ministers, to Serbia, to all those involved in this process to seek the best solution. In this way, I'm not sure we'll come up with the best solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20641	Thank you very much. 28 Deputy Šefik Džaferović, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20642	The esteemed chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, chaired by the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputy ministers. Let me say a few sentences and I think this is the right moment for the Rules of Procedure and the way we work. It is not at all a issue that a representative can propose a item of the agenda, it is not at all a questionable matter that we should make a statement about it, but it is a very controversial matter that, at the stage of proposing the agenda, a fundamental debate on what is proposed. I don't know how you're going to react, but it's mine to get up and say it here for this pay phone, according to Article 71. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the House of Representatives, as well as any authorising officer, shall have the right to request the abandonment of the optional point and to propose a new one with the appropriate material in writing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And the position (2) states that a representative cannot present for more than three minutes, nor elaborate the essence of the issues proposed as part of the agenda unless the House College decides otherwise at the request of the representatives. So this is imagined, as I understand the Rules of Procedure, so to make a brief proposal, there is no debate on the essence, and then, if it is adopted, it is debated essentially. This is a very serious violation of the Rules of Procedure that generally applies to us. I say, I have a duty to say this for this House's work next year. Apparently, he will take on some other character related to the election campaign. We can't avoid it, of course, but we have to respect the Poslovanik. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20643	Thank you very much. Here, behind this, I have nothing to add or subtract, that's what I warned you about before, about both the debates and the corrections of the wrong allegations that are being abused as debates. Once again as chairman, I call on all MPs and MPs to abide by time in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, and, of course, what the Rules of Procedure requires when it comes to both the debates and the corrections of the wrong allegations, as well as the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20644	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the false allegations of all colleagues and colleagues who dispute that this point should be placed on the agenda, saying in various ways about the proposed point because in Article 165. The declaration as an act is defined as containing the principle of caressing this House. And in my view, therefore, she and this are exactly giving us a chance and an opportunity to discuss the important issue of the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina we take a principled position. At the end of the day, we have not reached certain conclusions that have been made either by the Council of Ministers or by a particular resolution ministry and we have asked them and told them that you will be working in that direction. I know the organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the competencies and entities, and the Brcko District, and the canton and local self-government but cannot be called on only entities, because if entities could do this without this Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, without the Council of Ministers, without a resolutionary, they might have ended it by now. All the arguments, and I've been preparing myself from the competent agencies dealing with this, say in favor of, what I've been up to as an initiative, and here's what this point of the proposed agenda contains, that the path goes in that direction. In the end, if you will, I'm sure, because I've seen the number of 29 people, this route is in the interest of both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat, more than any other route. See suggestions by some other spaces, regions, how many residents, one, the other, the third, and then you will see where the interest is, and the number of vehicles, and the number of services, goods, transport, cost-effectiveness. The whole argument is on the side, here, and my initiatives and other colleagues who signed it, and here are these initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20645	Thank you. We're going to a debate. Representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20646	Well, I need information first, so if you have it as a College, will the chair of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council attend the session? Unless he's going to be present to withdraw item 7 from the agenda. And I would also ask you as a College to spare us these within the coalition disputes we had at the beginning as the one between the Alliance for Change and the SBB. Deal with this at your coalition meetings with the appropriate coalition.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20647	Thank you. As for your question whether a High Court and Prosecutorial Council will attend, we have a memo, on the occasion of, here, the establishment of the agenda, that they will attend the session today on the agenda point which is and when it is. Debate, MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20648	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, since I came to the session today with the idea of putting the agenda on the agenda, which is thematically related to what Mr Đonlagić was just saying through the parliamentary questions. I will propose and accurately define it, meaning a new item of the agenda – an MPial initiative in charge of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to submit a report on the reasons for not receiving the Quality Insurance Agency in full membership of the European Quality Insurance Agency within 30 days, as from the date of adoption of this information, with concrete proposals for measures to remove observed weaknesses. Here, I'm going to use what the vice-president, Mr. Džaferović, was just saying by quoting the Rules of Procedure, uh, I'm not going to say anything anymore. And since, here, and Mr. Đonlagić, in his performance through the parliamentary issues, has actually given a part of the explanation for this initiative I would ask colleagues and colleagues to put this agenda item on the agenda, and then to discuss the essence and reasons why it is important to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20649	Thank you. 30 Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20650	Thank you. I mean, I only have one dilemma and a suggestion. During a previous period of two or three days, at their request, employees of the Police Body Coordination Directorate, those who deal with the International Operations Police Department and as president of the Club asked for some possibility that they should be included in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law proposed by the Council of Ministers by the haste procedure, when it comes to their status, that positional supplement, to call it so collocchially. And, of course, I had a conversation, I don't know what to say about what I was trying to figure out. It is, in 2016, that such a law was in the proposal where they were included in the solution, 15 of them, as many as there are in this sector, and in this new law that is today before us is not.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20651	Excuse me, counselor, if I understand you're not proposing a new agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20652	No, I'm just suggesting we don't discuss this...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20653	Then when we get to that agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20654	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20655	Thank you very much for understanding. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20656	Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I want to address this Parliament on the occasion of the agenda. For a long time, the capacity of the agendas of this House has not reflected our responsibility towards the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our role in this position and the current reality. What the College serves us as part of mandatory points does not have the capacity to justify our responsibility. And that is why I generally welcome the MPs and support the proposals to expand the agenda. There are a number of major topics important to this country, for the role of this Parliament that remain beyond us. The world is being redecorated globally, the geopolitical situation is more complex than before. It has strong repercusions on Bosnia and Herzegovina. When members of the Presidency, as in any normal parliament, parliament that assumes its responsibility, will come here to hear about the foreign policy situation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, our international... should work.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20657	I apologize to the honourable representative, do you suggest a point in the Rules of Procedure or abandonment? 31
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20658	I'll tell you now. That is why I support Mr Arnaut's proposal to start with the story of Bosnia and Herzegovina - foreign policy, effects and our roles in this. What we've got will allow us to come to the conclusion of what we're looking for, and I'm going to be one of those who's going to propose that we listen to the members of the presidency, to refer here what's been done, to provide us with arguments about what's planned and to see what our role is. And I call on you members of the College to put on the agendas of this session of Parliament in the next period, as mandatory points, huge topics, not topics that serve only to fill the agenda. We have a responsibility before us for the events that await this country and the solutions that will benefit citizens and peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20659	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I am obliged to respond, uh, to the Rules of Procedure. As for the members of the College and putting on the agenda, so the College does not work according to wishes, works by the Rules of Procedure. Everything we get from the Council of Ministers and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the fulfillment of the assumption that everything is on the agenda of the House of Representatives' session. Which means all mandatory points are on the agenda of the session. You also know that we are currently having a debate on the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure, and everything that is initiatives for changes and additions here is open debate. That's how they're gonna behave next to the College. And, here, and this time, I'm you, if I understand correctly, you didn't suggest a agenda point, did you?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20660	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20661	What's the point?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20662	I supported Mr. Arnaut's proposal to have this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20663	Which one, the one he suggested, the support?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20664	That's what I said. And on the other hand, I also want to tell you that I am not an inexperienced parliamentarian and you don't need to talk to me about procedures that aren't correct. You're not here to be a flow water heater, you're here to edit relationships. Your powers are not the same as mine here in this bench. When you sit here, we'll answer equally. Today you answer more.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20665	Thank you very much. 32 I was only obliged to speak as chairman, not to teach anyone, nor to speak of anyone's experience. We continue with the session, representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20666	I don't know if I would suggest or, therefore, ask you for information, since you've opened that topic, so the MPs' club that I belong to has proposed two laws in the procedure and you, uh, don't put them on the agenda, and we have a very modest agenda that after the vacation is one session, so here we are today, we could have been able to have a comfortable session. I think we're spending the money of the citizens of this country, and on the agenda we have nothing, and you have the laws that are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20667	Thank you. Representative and your answer. Your proposals referred to in the parliamentary procedure were at the College and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the College, the competent committees were designated and we await the opinion of the committees responsible. When they come, they will certainly be the point of the agenda, as are the ones that came today.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20668	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20669	Each time according to the Rules of Procedure, then, before the session, the College is held. And that's what we do in the Rules of Procedure. We've exhausted the debate on the agenda. Now, I would like to say this briefly, we have a proposal from Representative Damir Arnaut to place a point in today's session in the agenda – Type, number, intensity and cost of visiting BiH foreign ministers to other countries, as well as the purpose of the same for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. Given that we have the material, we will make a statement about the proposal to include this, just not now, please cross everything first, so let's say, we also have a proposal for Deputy Mladen Bosić to be included in today's session agenda – the Declaration on the criteria for defining the path of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo. And we have a proposal to include the session in today's agenda – the initiative, by MP Salke Sokolović, which is tasked by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs to submit a report on the reasons for not receiving the Quality Insurance Agency in full membership of the European Quality Insurance Agency, with concrete proposals for removing the identified weaknesses, within 30 days, from the date of adoption of this initiative. I just wanted to ask the honourable representative if he agrees, so you have the right as an agent on the initiative, I ask the representatives of peace and respect for the Rules of Procedure and the Code, whether this 33 initiative to deliver it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course to the College and to the competent commission, and it will come to one of the next sessions, or do you want to plead today?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20670	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20671	He can go. So we're not saying anything about this initiative today, we're leaving it to the competent committees and it's going to be on the agenda. I now ask you to make a statement on the proposal to include the item – Type, number, intensity and cost of visiting BiH Foreign Ministers to other countries, and the purpose of the same in the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens, according to the proposal of Representative Damir Arnaut and with the support of other representatives. Of the 37 present – 20 for, versus 7, abstentions 10. The Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska, exists in general, there is an entity majority. I understand that we have placed this item in today's session agenda. I ask the services to adequately put the agenda in order where it should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal to include the item in today's agenda – the Declaration on the criteria for defining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo, on Deputy Mladen Bosić's proposal. Of the 36 present – for 25, against 7 abstentions 4. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that today's agenda included a proposal for a Declaration on the criteria for defining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo, on the proposal of Deputy Mladen Bosić. Now I'm giving a short break of 10 minutes to get our services on the agenda so that we can continue with the agenda of today's session. Dear MPs and MPs, please take your seats to proceed with the session. At this point, we have a quorum. One more question to you, before I determine the agenda, I ask you whether we should read the agenda or we'll find out that we've got the agenda you've got. What are you for? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20675	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At the previous session, I reacted after being in favour, after being told the lies about my discussion. In accordance with Article 76 and with Article 77. You've been bound by the untruths to react and stop an MP, which you haven't done. On the contrary, this is a stenogram, you stopped me from letting me say what it was about. This stenogram is entirely saying that there was a lie behind the pay phone and a lie that cost me a lot with the media link of certain media, because at no time did I say that someone was killing children. This is a stenogram. I asked this stenogram to be shared with MPs and journalists for which you did not allow. I insist that this part of the stenogram be an integral part of the record, because everyone reads the record rather than a stenogram. In fact, when I was speaking, Mr. Lovrinović got up and very boldly, here it is here, saying that I said that someone was killing children. I have not mentioned this for a moment, and I am now asking you to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Procedure, insist on Mr Lovrinović to make 36 public apologies here and to initiate, in accordance with the Code of Conduct of MPs, the procedure for determining responsibility for the untruth. I said, I suffered a media link from certain media, no one paid attention to what I was saying, but only to a sentence brought out by Mr. Lovrinović. I've had more than 40 calls at home, I don't know how to get to the number, looking for my statements where, when and how someone killed children, and I beg you, I want that burden off me, because I didn't say that. I also ask that this part of the stenogram be shared with all MPs and all journalists. That's my right, because no one has the right to give me in my mouth what I didn't say. Now once again I ask you to from for this pay phone here is false, in Croatian it is said, I consulted..., a lie, asking to apologize [[the speaker is warned on time]] for a spoken lie. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And get this in. in the framework of the total minutes [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20676	Thank you, counsel. As far as the minutes and remarks are concerned, I'll read you a business provision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. — Decisions on the justification of the objection to the minutes shall be adopted at a session without discussion. Where observations are adopted in the minutes, appropriate amendments shall be made. As far as the matter is concerned, I have listened carefully to you, which you have spoken of, perhaps you have not read the record, at the end of the journal stands for you – the integral part of the record is the transcript from the 52nd session of the House of Representatives. All he has is in that transcript, and I haven't seen any concrete comments on the record, and everything you have as an agent to some MP, etc., of course it's your full representation right, you do, you endure, etc., but I haven't seen it here. I see MP Zaim Backović has applied, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20677	Dear Mrs. Krišto, regardless of our verbal duels I tell you that I greatly appreciate you, I am seriously saying this, and we will have them because this is business, and I don't want to interfere with anything that's in this room. But please, here it is, when Mr. Lovrinović throws it to me, you don't warn him, I tell him – please let me go, You warn me, not Mr. Lovrinović and so on the whole record. And I demand that, since the stenogram you're referring to none of the journalists are reading, it's just the record and what they want to hear here, that this be an integral part of the record, because I didn't say anyone was killing children. And you owe it to Article 77. A Rules of Procedure to warn him who tells the truth. You didn't do it, and now I'm asking you to ask whoever was telling the lie to at least tell the truth, because that truth is, now I'm telling you, it costs me a lot. I said, the media shampoo I suffered from a part of the media, I have no right to skip, as well as the invitation to make statements at home where, who and how he killed Bosniak children. I didn't say that and you're obliged to protect me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20678	Thank you, too. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20679	I thank the chairman. 37 Behold, so as not to warn me of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Backović, but the aim is to help him. Uh, I remember very well that at the last session he called for a concrete insult of MPs as a violation of Rule 79(5)'s Rules of Procedure and asked that his warning be made in accordance with another member of the Rules of Procedure to enter the minutes from that session. So, if I understand correctly, and here I am using the fact that I know this matter, uh, what Mr. Backović is now asking is that his warning from last session on the violation of the Rules of Procedure be found in the record from that last session. I hope that I have been able to help and clarify the situation, but I think that here absolutely everything Mr. Backović is looking for in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, perhaps he just did not express himself correctly, or called on the right members.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20680	Thank you if you have in any way been legal, any legal help from your colleague Zaim Backović, but if anyone, I really did not understand him, I have therefore read this provision of the Rules of Procedure, I asked – what do you want to enter, what is your objection to the Rules of Procedure? And everything else, I repeat again, is an integral part of this record of ours. So, what you want, what kind of remark, is to be delivered so that we can make it clear about it, because these remarks will be made out to you by this House. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations, again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20681	Well, you see, the secretary can help you, here I apologize, uh, but there is a business provision that clearly states that the MP may request that his remark on the violation of the Rules of Procedure be included in the minutes. Isn't that right, Secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20682	Well, I didn't say anything. It's not a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20683	And, therefore, not in the sense that the stenogram is an integral part of the record, but that its warning from last session to be included in the record. Well, I know, my warnings are always included in the logs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20684	But you haven't tarajed really, say, formulate how it stands, uh, I've asked it again, I don't have a proposal, formulate your proposal. Comrade Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20685	Dear Mrs. Krišto, in the last session I handed in and wrote in writing, which you ignored, that the injured member..., Mr. Damir Arnaut and the attitude (5) of insulting the MPs, I wrote and handed it over in writing to you Mr. Secretary and demanded that it be shared immediately, which you banned. I am here in the same function as you and from where you are entitled to give up what I am as an MP. So that part of the stenogram, because I'm stressing again, I didn't say that. You let someone I didn't say speak for me. And then I would like 38 to put myself in my skin what it feels like to have the Croatian media convey that, in this Assembly, I am the MP and the one who said that Bosniak children were killed by, and that is very effective, very effective, so I have articles, denied by MP Nikola Lovrinović, what I did not say. Isn't it fair that this House protects me? Wherefore hath a right to insult me, wherefore hath the right to say that which I have not said, without you having responded. You are our representatives, you are not representatives of someone imaginary, you are obliged to protect me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20686	I didn't understand you again, counselor, who, please, you didn't get the word now, we have to behave anyway. I don't have a dialogue with you here about who, how, you've led this dialogue with the MPs in this room. I ask you under the item of the agenda minutes – adoption of the minutes from the 52nd session which were the observations, we will make our statement on your remarks. I will continue to hold a session from the aspect of the Rules of Procedure entirely if you allow me all here. Here, submit your remark, we will make that observation known. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing were asked by MPs: Senad Šepić addressed the initiative and asked three questions to the BiH Council of Ministers; Saša Magazinović, please, can we please continue the session or will we ask for an interruption. Shall we continue with the session? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20689	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So, I am on the parliamentary issue that I have referred to all levels of government, i.e. the resolution ministries, and as regards the case of "hrabar woman Kruščica“ and I thank this at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, Minister, Mr. Šemsudin Dedić, who gave a complete answer and who has actually confirmed everything that the locals of Kručćica have been looking for for for for several months, i.e. fighting for drinking water, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and also the ratified conventions. So, Minister Dedić points out, and in 2012 the Ministry headed by another minister referred a number of views, opinions and challenged some decisions made regarding the construction of a mini power plant at the source of Kruscica. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, the Federal Ministry, points to the inacceptability of the construction of a mini hydropower plant Kruščica with a water procedure on the Tramošnica stream and challenges all legal bases that have been passed and that have given consent, so all of those levels of government that have given consent to the construction of this mini hydropower plant. Also, Minister Dedić notes on several occasions that the Law on the Waters of the Federation of BiH favours drinking water over the use of water for other purposes. Which will say that women, hrabar women of Kruščica, and locals of Kruščica, are struggling with windmills in the Mediterranean Canton, were exposed and exposed to today's violence, that the Ministry of Interior of the Middle Bosnian Canton states in its delivered response that they did not act according to the law and that there was no force against the locals who gathered to prevent the construction of a mini power plant, while video, images and everything else owned by locals, who made a live dam to prevent the construction of a hydropower plant, absolutely do not go into their contribution and testify that the force was used, and even that some women were in a different state and were, that they were used power. I thank the answers delivered, but a key question is raised – why is this also a case to be considered by the BiH Council of Ministers? It is precisely because this is the sphere of the Constitution, the law and the ratified conventions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is exactly what will be considered at one of the meetings of the Joint Commission on Human Rights when the Ombudsman for Human Rights and the Ministry of Human Rights delivers all reports on this case and when it is actually shown that all this Mr. Dedić has stated in his reply, that one part of the high-ranking SDA personnel has absolute power and they are above the law and carry out the will, 40 while the locals of Kruščica are fighting for their basic, fundamental human rights, it is the right to drink water. That they were unprotected, even more so, by other institutions of the Middle Bosnian canon, they did not stop to protect them, but they were exposed to the forces, and the question arises what Bosnia and Herzegovina will do in that case if it is established that the locals had the right to go out and build a live dam and fight for their basic human rights, that no institution, and even the prosecution does not deal with this case, although even yesterday, in last night's episode, TV Network was given a lot of information on how some concessions, licenses, and the rest, and we all watch him and blindly, no one does anything. The Ministry also notes that the Water Act has adopted the Framework Directive on European Union waters in the process of adoption. I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is not listening to me, I hope he will take a stenogram and will also be involved in this case and that the BiH Council of Ministers will take, together with the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Human Rights, all necessary measures to help the locals of Krusce. At this very moment, while we are discussing this case, the Kruščice women had to go to court to defend what no one can dispute, and what some authorities of the Middle Bosnian Cantor seem to be able to dispute because they are political elites above the law. So, once again, I note that I also addressed everything, all the questions and cantonal ministries in the Central Bosnian Canton, of course expected from the competent Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry of the Middle Bosnian Canton, I did not get an answer, and of course I expect it, and I will refer to it accordingly when I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20690	Thank you very much. Just to remind the Rules of Procedure a little bit, although there is no time limit and read all the business provisions in the comment, they should refer to whether someone is satisfied or dissatisfied and somehow we have kept an eye on this parliamentary one through work, that the answer, or comment, is not longer than the question. Representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20691	Thank you. Here I was this morning getting that answer I asked for, here, and yesterday, for example, regarding the Ministry of Communications and Transport. I must remind myself of what this is about, the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, and my question was – how many meetings were held with representatives of the Croatian Government after the shift of Slavko Matanović, meaning from 01.12.2015 to 01.08.2017 with which representatives of our ministry and representatives of the Croatian Ministry participated? The answer from the Ministry of Communications and Transport is that one meeting was held, meaning 19.04.2016. where the Deputy Minister participated, we didn't have a minister either. So, Minister Jusko, besides all that talk and what we've heard here, didn't participate, didn't have any meetings on the Peles Bridge. The only thing that has been done is that after 01.08, when my question came, on 04.08., it sent a copy of the request from Minister Matanović, who sent him from 2015, that the Republic of Croatia would propose its members to the board of state. So that's how much the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers cared about building and all that's going on in the interstate dispute right now, in any case regarding the construction of the Pelje Bridge. Not a single meeting, not a single act, except for this act since 04.08. of the copy act by Minister Matanović. It's a concern for Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20692	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20693	Thank you, Chairman. I cannot answer yes or no, whether I am satisfied, at the beginning of July 2017 I asked the Ministry of Transport and Communications actually four questions, and it was, first of all, about the markings and signalling at the border crossings, about the Center for Education from Široki Brijeg, I asked what about the funds blocked in the sub-account of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and about the type-approval, what was done in accordance with the BiH Court's ruling. In some draft answer, otherwise they practice it from the Ministry, I don't know if anyone else does it, it's time is a draft, it's a supplement, now it's a supplement, I can't even manage it, I got an answer to that first question as a supplement. In this draft that the Department of Traffic officially provided me were all four answers, and now, here's only one, I don't know why yet, I've been looking for short oral answers before, where possible, otherwise where it's not, here, to get in writing. So the comment on the answers that I received at the shortest is that this is inadmissible. I am commanded not to say what the executive's relationship to serious issues referred to by the MPs here shows, in any case I wanted to say that there are a large number of issues in this portfolio that go beyond the authority of this, especially when they answer this way, this House and the efforts of the MPs. I'm afraid that more work might be for investigative authorities, especially someone who would be, I suppose, Council of Ministers, able to encourage them to do their job. Here, let me just comment on this, so this supplement. Five years ago, 2012, a Code of Marks was adopted, three years ago a project documentation was drawn up and paid, two insurance funds, then shortly again almost two years ago, prepared tender documentation. That's what I'm asking. Why was it waiting? Why wasn't it done? And they respond that it was included in the procurement plan for 2017, well, I don't know, in some kind of project realization, plan, programme 2016-2018, then, respectively, says '17-'19. I don't understand what this means twice in two blocks, but I don't generally understand anything that comes from this ministry, because that's how it is every time. You ask the Ministry of Transport and Communications why the house hasn't been built yet, and they suit you that when you build a house you should have these, and, these materials, this, which are being built in, how you get a license, you don't get a question at all. Here, of course, I'm not happy, I don't just know if they're doing it tentuously so that a man loses himself in that answer, uh, or it's an ignoring relationship with the MPs, I don't know what Wednesday is, but it's clear that there's really a lot of things to be examined right now, and I think that all of this is very much about the Council of Ministers, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20694	Thank you. I see representative Maja Gasal, is this, this is a mistake. You're the one who answered for the comments? Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20695	42 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20696	Well, you have four answers, but the comments are to the answers, every MP when he answers, you've even taken the opportunity of not having a full six minutes to comment on the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20697	It's not limited.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20698	Yes, I did, and I said it wasn't limited, but you had the possibility, analoguely to business provisions, every debate has the right to one discussion. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20699	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20700	I can't turn on your microphone. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20701	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20702	Well, what does that have to do with me? Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20703	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20704	Please, we've taken the opportunity to comment on yours, you can contact someone else and then comment, and now we're moving on. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20705	I thank the chairman. Here, allow me, there is nothing analogous about business provisions, the Rules of Procedure say that the House can in conclusion regulate a particular question which is by no means or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure. And you've found that it's not detailed, or precise, nor precisely regulated, and I think Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil is right here, until Dom decides otherwise, but you can't, as chairman of your conclusion, decide differently. As for the comments on the answers to the parliamentary questions, i.e. the answers I received, I am pleased with the answers of those ministries that informed me that their representatives did not attend half or more meetings of the Interresor Working Group for the amendment of electoral legislation. I am satisfied with the answers because they were concrete and they cited the reasons, but I am not satisfied with the fact that you put someone in the Interresor Working Group, and then that person, when it comes to advisers of the three ministers, does not appear at six of the 12 meetings of the Interresor Group 43 working groups for amending electoral legislation when it comes to advanced technologies. Then we need to replace them with some other members who have more time, not invite themselves, right, to their many obligations. If they have a number of obligations, then they shouldn't be in the Interresor Working Group and that's the end of the story. Now, what makes these advisors, now bind me to the next, next answer, it's from Minister Borovac, uh, where I asked – what commissions are her advisors sitting on? And, here, these answers are available to all colleagues, uh, this is really one amazing number of commissions in which Mrs. Borovac has set up her advisors or they've been sitting in them before, I have no idea, but in any case, by providing me with this answer she knows that her advisors are sitting on these committees and then I don't think it's weird why counselors don't have time for inter-resor working groups, etc. However, I am particularly amazed by the fact that one of Mrs. Borovac's advisers is a member of the Novo Sarajevo Municipal Election Commission, and I will now be attached to the bill that counterpart Ahmetović, Šepić, the Independent Block delivered in the procedure, right, that members of the election committees should be elected by the municipal electoral commissions. And that might be progress in relation to the current situation where the parties are setting them up, but when you in the municipal election commission have an adviser to Semihe Borovac and then you expect her to make you an independent member of the election board, you will not make any progress there. In any case, I am fully committed to working with the Independent bloc to prevent these electoral thefts and I hope you will be open to suggestions, because as long as Semiha Borovac has her own counsellor in the OIK, Novo Sarajevo, you will not be able to count on independent members of the election boards, because the advisory function is a politically appointed function and is not independent in itself. No matter what intention he may have had, this one, the position itself is not independent because it is politically appointed and therefore it is necessary to pay good attention to this issue and possibly initiate amendments and amendments to the legal solutions that, as is now the case with elected and appointed officials, also the advisers of elected and appointed officials are banned from membership in municipal election committees. It's an anomaly that now exists and needs to be stopped. It is incomprehensible for me that Minister Borovac herself has so far not insisted that her advisor leave OIK Novo Sarajevo. Finally, I am extremely pleased with the answer delivered by the Secretary of the Joint Service, especially by the effort he made, to get an answer whether, did Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Genjac know of the allegations that Mr. Duratović, the surviving camper, directed on the war engagement of the current chairman of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. I am not satisfied with the fact that neither Mr. Džaferović, as I have seen, has Mr. Genjac shown himself about these allegations. And it is unclear how, Mr. Džaferović, the SDA break may question the appointment of Svetlana Cenić, who is an undisputed expert on economic issues, and then refuse that, a month ago, you have had the opportunity to refuse to deliver what you knew about this issue and whether Mr. Bojić has some expertise that of all the committees runs the Joint Commission on Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20706	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20707	Injury of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20708	Wait a minute, so you don't think I'm taking care of the Businessman's injury, do you? 44 _________(?) I have a business intervention. This, please, take care, we are at the agenda point – comments on the answers received. Everything I said, I warned the MPs to adhere to the agenda points – comments on the answers they received. Please, Article 77 of the legislator or other participant in the debate may only talk about a matter to be considered in accordance with the established agenda. If the president stands down, he'll be warned. Please, Mr Arnaut, I would like to say, is also a moment ago to the reaction I spoke about the Rules of Procedure in terms of giving answers to the comments said, and I could understand that my colleague Maja said that the House pleaded..., because I said that the Rules of Procedure did not limit this issue and that we only had such a practice that all representatives commented on their answers during one announcement. But regardless of these views, I will allow my colleague without a statement of answer, or a comment on this question, and I ask you all to stick to the agenda. You are constantly objecting, making remarks to the Rules of Procedure, and in fact you are violating them yourself. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20713	Comet with no comment. I get partial answers and I see here and it doesn't and it doesn't say that I got 'cause they're partial, which is amazing. I can't figure out an esteemed colleague, the finance minister, that you can't get what total credit debts are for one, for the roads, I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out, there's no Civil Service Minister, there's no way to get how much of the vehicle's assets were realised since it's a central vehicle registration register, I can't figure it out. And so on. But I guess how it started now, let's call it an investigation, commission, commission, I guess we'll get that kind of information. We've already tried our best to get a piece of it, but it's obviously not in someone's interest to get that information out. Therefore, I ask that the question that I have provided be forwarded again to the non-responsible instance, which are being realised by the funds for which, gentlemen Members, we raise 45 hands. Don't forget that for every credit assignment we raise our hands here, but we don't have any return on the realisation of those funds. And we have no idea how and in what way what we've approved is realized or used. Whoever approves, he does, and we don't have any way, how, why and whether it's spent on what's supposed to be spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20714	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20715	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am aware of the facts of what it means to live in the Balkans, especially when we have in mind the history of life and conflict that are dominant to the Balkans and practically every mention of the word of the Balkans, the wars that are waged in these areas immediately fall to each one's mind. However, I am surprised that the serious television stations in our neighborhood often talk to serious political commentators about new card mixes and new border reshuffles, and I am really surprised that these things in Bosnia and Herzegovina are not spoken of sufficiently or at least not clearly enough, and I am particularly surprised that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not responding on this issue. With that in mind, I asked the Foreign Minister question sometime in August, of course, it took me three months to get that answer, and in the meantime the same story was repeated on the same serious TV house, and I got an answer from the Council of Ministers which is about, I am asking you, colleague Zaima Backović, colleague Backović, colleague Backović, please be kind and parliamentary, I am not making a scene when you are talking and I listen to you, wait at least for me to finish. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20716	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20717	You could have said that before we even started. And I am surprised that in this sense I could not get an answer indicating the readiness of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to react even to such things, because very often official policy through official or informal channels is clearly sending signals about what it intends to do in a certain period. So, the things or stories that point to, that point to and speak about the possibility of mixing cards and reassembling borders are extremely serious because all conflicts practically begin with the word. I beg you and appeal to all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to take care of these matters. So I can say this way that I'm not very happy with the Council of Ministers' response, but here I guess he couldn't have been any different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20718	Thank you very much. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go, commentary. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20719	So, Madam Chairman, thank you and I would not like the public or my colleagues and colleagues to get the impression that you did the precedent or that you did me a favor. I am very good at reading the Rules of Procedure and says Article 171 (4) – when the MP, when the chairman of the doma, receives an answer to the questions that we have, therefore, referred to, is one, when he receives the answer, and this position of this member could be respected in the way that you interpret it if the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers provided a reply to the representatives on time. So it happens that at one session we get six answers, as I have now received six answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20720	Dear MPs, I warn you to comment on your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20721	Of course I'll make a comment, the Honorable Chairman, just don't act like you're here... and we're the martyrs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20722	You got the word to comment on the answer you received.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20723	Of course I'll comment. I received an answer to the question that I asked the Honorable Minister Osmanović, and thank him for his complete, finally three months later, a complete answer, as regards my parliamentary question – why did Croatian woman Livno get 100,000 KM and King Sutjeska 1,000 KM? After they provided me with a report on the work of the commission that she had chosen, which was to decide on the public money of Bosnia and Herzegovina as to who she would assign, imagine there are two separate commissions, so one commission decided to give the King's Sutjesca 1,000 KM, while the other commission decided to give Croatia's wife Livno 100,000 KM for the purpose of the reconstruction of the church in Livno. And imagine, those who have decided, the four who sit on that committee, have come to the Council of Ministers to bring about an amendment to the Guidelines on how who gets our money. So they, of course, made it easier for these criteria, so here we're talking, a lot of finding out from this answer, they made the criteria easier the way when they have our money you don't need much of this documentation and that, very quickly you get approval for 100,000 KM, it's reduced procedure, it's all shortened. And now that a man is undermining the parallel as much as one person with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina needs these papers, bureaucracy and others, a taxi, etc., to pay, that the poor walk from the institution to the institution for about 30 to 50 marks of the monthly allowance, and out of the budget 100,000 marks goes simply. And the instructions were made on amending the manual, so it's called the manual on the amendments to the manual. It is very interesting, for example, when an insight into the evaluation patterns has been made into how some projects have been evaluated, so let's say I was just dealing with the value of this project that speaks of the restoration of cultural institutions, I have never heard that the religious institution is a cultural institution, and here it is said that the aim of this project of the restoration of a religious facility in Livno will lead to multiculturalism and intercultural dialogue, this project aims to significantly contribute to the development of culture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to increase participation in culture. And what offended me very much, and it offended me because I suggested to Mr. Osmanović that 100,000 marks, which this association has returned to the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina, spend on the purchase of GPS bracelets for children with autism, which, of course, is more cultural than what this relevant association or association has applied for, so in an evaluation form, they say that this project which they applied for for 100,000 marks allows 47 access to culture to all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially children, young people with special needs. Well, that offends common sense. And I thank the Minister of Civil Affairs and Services who provided me with all this data which should otherwise be transparently disclosed on the pages of the Ministry of Civil Affairs to be seen, that, as tax bonds, citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we see the spending of our money, we see some sitting in these commissions, what I, you, to me, value these projects as essential projects for the development of culture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, some 100,000 marks for nothing, 1,000 KM right where it should be preserved to preserve the cultural, cultural issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosnian-Herzegovina people, for which King's Sutjeska applied, only gets 1,000 KM. And if it hadn't been for the public pressure, if it hadn't been for some of us who'd been persistent to look for all this information that 100,000 KM, of course, would have been spent on resuscitating this, I don't know whether it was a religious or cultural object, probably another part of the party's gatherings, because we know how the line went and where this whole support came from. So I thank you for the transparently delivered data.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20724	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20725	I have no other way of commenting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure of this matter. Namely, Article 76. The Rules of Procedure did not restrict us when we could point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so neither did this point. Article 170. The Rules of Procedure have been injured by Mr Arnaut's parliamentary question as it is said - MPs can ask questions and submit initiatives to the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers and other entities in their jurisdiction. The Secretary of the Joint Service is not responsible for answering the question asked. You, like the College, were obliged to return the person who asked the question, for the person to whom it was directed is not competent to give that kind of answer. Can't, who's the Secretary of Joint Services? Is he the secretary general? The man has clear... jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20726	Please, Your Honor, do you have a comment on the answers to the parliamentary questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20727	So, I'm looking for, so here's a clearly injured Rules of Procedure, I beg you, here's a clearly injured Rules of Procedure. You can't ask a question from someone who's not in charge. What does this mean?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20728	Thank you very much. We understand you all, Your Honor. Let's go for a comment if you have one. And you didn't get the answer, and that's what we'll refer to after you finish your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20729	I'm just asking you to tell me when I can say what I want to say? At today's session, obviously not. I'm going to have to ask some questions to say this now, which has nothing to do with the question I'm going to ask. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20730	Thank you very much. Before I give my representative my word, Mr. Borislav Bojić, I will also say something about which we have just led, since it is my duty to do so in the Rules of Procedure. As we had just had a situation that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we did not have a limited discussion, or comment, and that we were keeping an eye on it and that as a College, we interpreted business provisions in such a way that it was one answer and that it could not last longer than just a question, and when you look again at a business provision that tells you that you only comment if you are dissatisfied and you can ask another question. So in this case we're going negative, unless it's prescribed that someone got the answer. I will also comment on Mr Borislav Bojić this time, as was the situation with counterpart Zaim Backović. Here you go, buddy. You got your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20731	Thank you for giving me your word. It would really be inappropriate not to comment on everything that Damir Arnaut purposely did asking a parliamentary question. Of course, he extorted the answer as he was delivered and in doing so he went down on Borislav Bojić accusing him of putting the burden on Borislav Bojić and Serbian representatives of the blame for events in the tragic conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's like I'm ashamed...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20732	But please, Your Honor, I am warning you as well as my colleague Novaković, I am saying, today, You are at the point of the agenda – a comment on your received or, in this case, the unacquired answers. Don't argue, you're a respected representative to me who takes care primarily of yourself and those you represent, so I ask you to respect this remark.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20733	Of course. Let me comment on the answer that came in the way Damir Arnaut did with a special purpose, and that is, above all, to lie, to degrade and attack, not only me, but also the representatives of the Serbian people and Srbin in this House, because it really doesn't make sense. I'm just asking to comment on it and nothing else. Or, as counterpart Novaković said, tell me when I can comment on all this, all of this insinuation of Damir Arnaut about me that he did through this question the way he did, because it really doesn't make sense. I want to comment on that. That's the point, so if I have the right to comment, then I'll say what I mean. So, I'm not ashamed of being and proud of being a member of the Republika Srpska Army like many who sit in this room were in the Army of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian Defence Council and I don't want to hurt anyone in this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20734	Please, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20735	But I won't let myself get hurt through this comment. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20736	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20737	Not only me, but the representatives of the Serb people here by...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20738	Don't let me warn you another time or I'll go. I will indeed have to, it is my obligation to, in accordance with Article 77, if, in addition to the warning, I will have to deny the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20739	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20740	Representative Hanka Vajzović, second comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20741	Thank you very much. I'll just take the chance that you're so good-willed, everyone can get a word, so I'll take another time. So, except that I'm not happy with every question I've ever asked that, why else, it hasn't been done and when, from the Ministry of Transport, they're going to respond in a cooperative manner to have an intention. There is even worse, my comment is why, since February, I have not received an answer from the Council of Ministers to the question promised about the national structure in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the management staff.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20742	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20743	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I am now asking, not to be unclear, that my warning about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the concateous insult of MPs, enters the minutes of this session and that it is in the record when we vote on it next time. So when you tell someone he lied to, it's a clear insult. However, look at the context of the whole, I asked if Mrs Džaferović and Genjac knew anything. I have a colleague trying to deny me the right to ask a question, another colleague trying to insinuate that I wanted something. And it's really top-notch insults. What I am, how can someone know what I wanted with it. I simply asked the question – did Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Genjac have certain information that the person, a former camper, presented in the media, and said that he had met representatives of the Bosniak parties in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly about these findings. _________(?) 50 [[no microphone turned on]] Will you warn him? You can throw him out, the Rules of Procedure lets you throw him out, there's a real business provision, after the second warning you can throw him out. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20745	Please, I'm asking you to interrupt the session. At this point I'm giving a break for 15 minutes and I'm asking the College and the presidents of the clubs in the House of Representatives for a meeting, if it's a free hall at this point 2/2, so we can continue the session. Honorable MPs and MPs, you know we've been looking outside the College of Breaks and we've been holding the College in an extended composition, to discuss the continuation of this session and the work of the future House. As far as we're concerned, here today we can conclude, and that's where we talked to the College in an extended composition, that there's really been a lot of violations of the provisions by many MPs, and that maybe it's tolerance, in a way, by those of us who run this House. But with some cry, with some, I mean, it's kind of, I wouldn't use inappropriate words, but I mean, it's from each of us, actually we're all running this home. And I've been looking for this break primarily to protect this House's dignity while I'm in office as chairman. What is my wish, I said to the College in an extended composition, to work fully on the Rules of Procedure, and I will do my best. No one can ever rule out mistakes, they're human, but we can always apologize for them, tell them what we did wrong, and get out of that situation. I don't think I've ever done anything sinister to an individual representative, or anything to harm this House's reputation. I'll make sure it's in the future. What I'm trying to say is that we have a deal and that debates are being misused through the agenda. We know that the debates on the agenda should be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it is proposed or removed from the agenda item, or that the new item should be implemented, but only the implementation, without justification, and you know that this is misused in a way that the entire content of that agenda item, which should be considered under the next point, is given in the agenda and the follow-up of a strong replica. Likewise, through replicas, they are abused, not called upon to the replicas for a business provision, for one to whom and who is rectified. We also saw today through comments on the answers we received, contrary to the Rules of Procedure that the MP, and that is what every MP I think should at least know, especially the one who knows the Rules of Procedure, that he cannot ask questions to the MP, nor to the service. We also had some things that referred to when the Rules of Procedure did not clearly define whether they were responding to one or the other. In that case, the College interprets the Rules of Procedure. And what I said today, that was the attitude of the College, that's how we acted, if we were to comment, then there's a comment on one, so one comment on the answers we got to that session, because we read them that we got answers. The length of time for comments cannot be greater than the length of time asked, of course relating to the oral part, and to the written part, the answer to the question cannot be a comment, so the asked question in writing cannot be explained. It may be, according to the Rules of Procedure, that it is not satisfied and that another question may be asked. 51 I ask you to keep all these provisions in mind, and everyone has a right, here, through this democratic House to bring out and say clearly what it is. And in a special way I want to warn everyone about respecting the Codex, that depends on all of us. I'm not any kind of judge here, nor do I have the right to say anything, and you all know well and you should know this Codex, and there's another body in charge of its implementation. What are some, we know what insults they are, etc., we will always warn them, and what some people think and what they think is not mine is that I appreciate it in this case. So I ask you, in the spirit of democratic relations, and democratic relations mean respect for the procedure, to continue with the work of this House. At this point, I'm taking a break by 3:30 for lunch because we have other obligations during this break. We're crossing, I'm saying, we're done with point two, we're going to move to point three.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20749	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I hope I'm in the middle of something right now. I want to talk about an emergency procedure, as some might say. So, I'm part of the debate on the agenda, and I've already said it. In fact, I was on the occasion that one part of the people in the Department of International Operational Police Cooperation in the Department for the Coordination of Police Authorities, and the civil servants, on their request, are, as they say, talking to them and they believe that this proposal, in some 52 ways, has been abolished because they are not in those accessories as intended for others, other positions that are located, both state officials and police officers. In fact, they were able to convince me that, in the 2016 proposal, they were, therefore, envisaged and they were, somewhere 15 as I remember them, and now they're gone. So, the only thing I could do about it, and I tried to clear up this situation for myself, first of all, so I suggested that we do this anyway, if possible, by a brief procedure, and if the Proposer can accept it, that we could possibly clear this up, at least as far as I'm concerned, I don't know how other colleagues think and what kind of information they have, so I'd like it not to be done in a hasty procedure, because I don't know, there's no reason not to clear up this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20750	Thank you, counsel. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20751	I thank the chairman. In the context of what is a colleague of Lovrinović, I also think that they have done from the Department of International Operational Police Cooperation at the Coordination Directorate, police bodies have held a conversation with almost all parliamentary clubs and have also presented, and I believe that, or the Democratic Front Club considers it justified, they have laid down a trap, because when the chronology of the laws we have today on the agenda, but when we return to January 2017, we will see that those in Article 19(5) have been included in the Bill Proposal, and now since August this same bill have been absolutely excluded, or the Sector for International Co-operation, and instead of them the State Agency for Sights and Protection has been inserted. The Democratic Front Club believes that this proposal, after a hasty procedure today, would require colleagues and colleagues of the House of Representatives not to support and return to the regular procedure so that we can change the way that we can act on a member of this Act and according to what the Office for the Review of BiH suggests in its recommendations, and as regards absolute discrimination against officials, state officials working in this sector. And so, for example, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions in its 2013 report, including from 2014 and 2015, states that discrimination should be abolished for civil servants, i.e. equalising the percentage for, which is 25%. And accordingly, the Democratic Front Club suggests that this be returned to regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20752	Thank you. At this point in time, we have, we've heard from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so we have to interrupt the debate, give it to him, it'll probably affect the context of these applications. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20753	Thank you very much. I won't be long, so the aim and purpose of the law is to allow all police officers at the level of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions a special police supplement. This right earlier, as we all know, was used only by SIPA employees, the Border Police, etc., while staff of the Police Body Coordination Directorate had no right to this supplement. And now, here, some kind of this, at the very least, is corrected, and all police officers should have the same 53 police accessories. We accept what the honourable MPs have said before me, just me, here in some way, please or I suggest that it be not a regular but a shortened procedure that also allows for amendment action, because we need this law to be in the finalisation phase of the DOB, and then also to make and adopt budgets so that we know the very clear margins of action within it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20754	Thank you very much, President. Did this, in any way, affect those who signed up to discuss emergency procedures, do you stay at the debate or? Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20755	I thank the chairman. I am pleased to hear the position of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, it is good that we have, today I would love to not have raised this problem hand-to-hand for an emergency procedure, because we have had one problem that has been in the audit reports for years and we are finally solving this problem. In order not to have a problem with the audit reports for this year, I, here, just want to appeal to my colleagues here, or I don't know if it's going to be sent by the Honorable Finance Amendment, we have the possibility that at the next session, in order to solve all of this, we can adopt the Law in another reading if we have a ready amendment, because we see that there's an absolute consensus here and there's only one thing we don't agree on. Well, here I am, calling my colleagues to have the next session ready and the amendment and to adopt the law immediately in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20756	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20757	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Just in this direction to correct the injustice and to respect police officers, which are not covered by this Law, to go to a shortened procedure with our word and obligation, and to the College and all of us, to end the law in November so that we can have a clean situation concerning the Council of Ministers so that they can plan the budget for the coming year and comply with this adopted Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20758	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20759	I thank the chairman. 54 I think Mr. Rančić's intention and everyone who spoke well is, uh, just here's to clarify. Short procedure doesn't do anything but cut deadlines in half, so instead of 10 days for the commission phase you have 5 days, etc. I suggest doing this the next way, which is to put it, therefore, in regular procedure with the next session applying Article 112. A Rules of Procedure that allows us to adopt amendments at the same session at which we adopt the Law in the first reading and then, immediately after the amendment, we adopt the Law in the second reading. It's the fastest way, so we don't waste time here, this is the best way, so apply Article 112. I also suggest to the Council of Ministers that he's not doing this anymore, don't send things in the emergency procedure, you can't say that you have a large number of laws against us, so now this is a special emergency, because it's always proven that the emergency procedure actually extends the procedure. After all, you could have learned that when you sent out the excise laws four times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20760	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20761	Thank you, Chairman. I'm just saying that I'm glad that the Council of Ministers has gone into realisation here are the recommendations and the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions and to point out here and the chairman, and also Minister Bevanda, that we haven't had any sublegal acts since 2008, so let me just remind you that in the realization of this legal solution then the Ministry should make a sublegal act, you in the Council of Ministers to adopt and speed up that procedure. Nothing more, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20762	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries. We're voting on a request for an emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. Of the 34 present – for 1, v 29, abstention 4. So there's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted a request for consideration of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure. We are now pleading on the fact that this bill is being considered by a brief procedure. Please state from a total of 35 present – 21 against 11, abstention 3. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. Are we going to the second round? 55 We vote twice. Of the 35 present – for 21, against 6, abstention 8. So there's an entity majority, so there's no 2/3 against any entity. I agree that in the second round, we adopted that the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions is being considered by a shortened procedure, i.e. under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the basic legislative procedure. Now we move to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control – Proposer: Temporary joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, dated 26.05.2017. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading below at the 48th session of the House, held on 05.07.2017. At the 51st session of the House, held on 07th and 13th September 2017. At the request of the Constitutional Court, the House extended the time limit for the submission of the report on the draft law. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a report on 24.10.2017. The commission passed the bill with one amendment. Representative Damir Arnaut submitted three amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20764	I thank the chairman. As I have announced three amendments that have not been supported by the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I think it is necessary to stress that the result of the vote was 4 for, 4 against, and that it did not require a majority and expressed intention to defend all three amendments in the House of Representatives' session. I call upon my colleagues to support these three amendments. Very short. Therefore, the first amendment concerns the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly simply cannot exercise parliamentary oversight over the institution of the High Representative. It is true that the Rules of Procedure foresees the possibility of asking questions, among other things, and the High Representative, although if we are to trust some of today's colleagues from today's debate, there is no question to the Secretary of Parliament's Assembly, and they are able to raise a high representative, so that people become more contradictory from session to session. However, in any case, if something of the Rules of Procedure is already possible, we do not consider it necessary to prescribe legislation, in particular something called parliamentary oversight of an international institution established under Chapter 7 of the Charter of the United Nations by the Security Council should not be prescribed. The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina simply do not have the opportunity or international legal basis to supervise the institution of the High Representative and therefore I call for this amendment to be supported. I also call for the other two amendments that simply concern both sanctions for non-compliance under certain provisions of the law. The sanctions are, to be understood, already prescribed by the bill, but only for a few members, i.e. a non-compliance of 56 several members, and these two amendments simply extend the sanctions for non-compliance by additional obligations, i.e. from additional members. In any case, if these three amendments are not adopted then the Law really has no purpose and as far as we are concerned, it would be most appropriate to reject the Law, especially if without sanctions no parliamentary supervision, without adequate sanctions, no pragmatic supervision can be even effective and then it is better to reject it and give someone better to do so next time than to go with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20765	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20766	Well, here's what I'm trying to say is that there's never been a more problematic law in the Parliamentary Assembly that's been done for two years, and it contains so much inadequacy. So, I think it would be a little less damage if we didn't adopt him than what he would bring if we adopted him, but I was already burning down when it was a debate on the principles of this law. At today's session, I would like to refer to the amendment adopted by the Commission, which is both problematic and essential and linguistic. So, the amendment adopted by the Commission says -- the BiH Presidency, the BiH Constitutional Court, the BiH Ombudsman Institution, the Office for the Review of BiH institutions is being monitored exclusively on the issue, I think in terms of financial operations, the Central Bank is being monitored under the Central Bank Act. First of all, I'd like to remind you that Article 4. The Revision Act states – The Office for Auditing in the performance of its duties and the exercise of jurisdiction under this Act shall be independent and shall not be subject to the management or control of any other person or institution unless otherwise stated by this Act. So you can't audit the office. As far as the Presidency is concerned, why is the Presidency excluded from supervision if this supervision is understood by the Commission? Aren't curtains that cost, I don't know, 30, and a hundred thousand marks aren't the kind of thing to discuss? Why did someone get scared and exclude the presidency? It's a representative of the executive government and there's no reason to be... that all other institutions can be controlled, but the Presidency doesn't. Also when it comes to the Central Bank, I remind you that what's written here that the Central Bank is being supervised under the Central Bank Act. I would like one of the members of the Commission, who worked on this material, to tell me what it means, because the Central Bank, its financial business, is audited by an independent institution, and what the audit is doing is just controlling the part relating to external debt. So, what it will do, it would like to tell me, since it is unclear here, what it should do in accordance with Parliament's law when the limited action of the institutions in charge is limited. ... to say that, that the revision of these institutions is being supervised exclusively on the issue, I think that, on the basis of this, we should replace this "on the matter" as some mistake that someone has been making for years. And in any case, I think that the amendment itself is breaking this law further, in addition to all the shortcomings that he has, what he writes here is additionally problematic. Thank you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20767	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20768	Thank you very much and I'll be very brief. Namely, I had one amendment on the Commission which voted – that the members of 31st finalise with 55th was deleted. In fact, it is mainly about members who deal with the exact same problem and in exactly the same way as the Rules of Procedure. There is a serious question here how to continue through the procedures to ensure an effective change in the Rules of Procedure. If we adopt this Act, which is above, of course, the Rules of Procedure, the first thing that awaits us is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, or the adaptation of Rules of Procedure to this Law, and then we can continue, let's say, here, specifically in this case, this Commission can only continue to work when that part of the work is completed if the law is adopted. Furthermore, in future times, we would significantly complicate changes to the act that defines our way of working, and it is not about supervision in the classical sense of the word. I have no objection and that is why I am that this Parliament has the right to oversee, more significant control over executive power than it is today, but I think that this way, by prescribing the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or amending the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the Law, it also complicates such a complicated way of adopting and amending the Rules of Procedure and adapting MPs, and at the end of this Law, which, if adopted, takes effect. That's why I think the Commission had a good intention but didn't do a good job. And as far as I'm concerned, I won't support this law. I think this law can be done much better. No Niko forced us to have 60 members, the Law could have had five members, but also those five members to essentially provide surveillance of what we wanted. The fact that we wanted to have a lot of members so that we complicated some things needlessly, I think we should get back to the beginning, so we should reboot and get back to the beginning and come to the text of the law that will not make any procedure difficult under any other act by which this Parliament is working.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20769	Thank you. Deputy Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20770	Just for a little while. The condition that I support this Law, which I consider necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina, is to delete Article 31(4). The truth is prescribed by our Rules of Procedure, but when we look at the Law, its internal organic bond, which is provided for in Article 31(4), is something much broader than what we have today in the Rules of Procedure and it is in direct cohesion, as I interpret it, with Annex X of the Dayton Peace Agreement, so if the amendment is adopted today and it is removed from the Law I will support the text of the Law, if not, then I will be against that Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20771	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20772	Just for a little while. Given that in previous discussions, what I wanted to say from Mr Arnaut, through colleagues in front of me and Mr Džaferović, must be known what it is in a line called control and it must be known that one law cannot derivate another law unless another law is put out of force, it cannot... in the face of different laws. We have this problem, say the Central Bank, it's not a national, it's not a show, it's a control, and you can't do parliamentary surveillance over an institution called the Central Bank, because it's not about the transmission bank and it's doing business on all the subjects of the Basel Convention. I've mentioned the bazelski Convention more than once here, and besides Mr. Nikola Špirić, no one has responded. It's a law in banking business and it has to work in accordance with the Hopes of the Basel Convention. Well, then who's going to the auditors, who's going to, and so on. This Law must compare in itself what it is in jurisdiction and may be in the jurisdiction of the congregation, and what it is that controls us. What's controlling us? Who? So we have to have instruments that will show everything. Just as much as I support what the gentlemen have been saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20773	Thank you very much. Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20774	The Honorable Madam Chairman. So I think we're wasting too much time, time around the law that's impossible to get support in this House. I respect the work of the Commission, unfortunately we did not get a convincing bill that could create, to achieve its purpose which is essential, therefore it is parliamentary oversight. And another more dangerous issue that has entered here, it is derogating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure as a key act, it is the most significant law on how Parliament works, this, in relation to the proposal for this law. In that sense, we will, therefore, absolutely be against the adoption of such a law. It needs to be seen, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a Law on Parliamentary Oversight but it needs to be seen how countries with similar, therefore, experiences have been resolved and how all these shortcomings and doubts that are present would be eliminated. I must say immediately, therefore, that it is wrong... a complete approach done around this, too ambitious, could only define those fundamental issues of parliamentary oversight, but it has been defined in most parts and by the Rules of Procedure of both Houses of Parliament. So we'll be absolutely against the law, we're wasting too much time on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20775	Thank you. Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20776	I'll do it very briefly, since I wanted to hear what were the objections to the law. I want to tell you that the way in which the law itself is prepared, you know how we come to the solutions themselves, to negotiate very hard, that there were many participants in the adoption of this Law and that we came to the content proposed to the Parliamentary Assembly by consensus. What's important is that there's an assessment here that we need the Law on Parliamentary Oversight and that's what's the point. I am not going to talk about any particular solutions, therefore, for the simple reason that we have fully discussed the individual solutions themselves, but simply to set just one example to ask for support from MPs in order to make a parliamentary surveillance look in the future and what it looks like in some of the countries when it comes to the control of the executive authority. For example, asking parliamentary questions, we ask parliamentary questions 24 hours before the session, so that the ministers prepare us for an answer or at a joint session of both homes that is seven days before the session itself. In one Germany, of course, we are a little further from Germany, but here is the clear mention, that the cabinet minister at least once a month comes before parliamentarians and answers questions on the spot, thus realizing whether ministers can meet these challenges. Here, ask yourself if all ministers in the Council of Ministers could withstand the kind of parliamentary supervision that would be fully open to the public, where MPs could freely ask questions. It's kind of parliamentary surveillance. It may not be possible to do this with us, it's one of the experiences, but one thing's for sure, we're going to need to pass the Law on parliamentary oversight, he needs us. I think so far when it comes to parliamentary investigations that we have made only a failure, and we have not brought any parliamentary investigations to an end. To mention one of them, let's say. Parliament's investigation into the establishment of donor spending. The moment those who were called before the parliamentarians realized that they had no obligation to respond, they did not respond. And you'll never be able to conduct a parliamentary investigation unless it's a legal obligation. If someone doesn't have a legal obligation to come before parliamentarians and give a certain kind of testimony, we won't be able to carry out a certain kind of parliamentary oversight. So this subject certainly won't stop talking about her. I invite the MPs to this issue, and I see how it will be nearly completed, but the intention was safe to pass the Law on parliamentary oversight. And no one has disputed each of the MPs to make a contribution in their own way in terms of the proposal, possible amendments to the MPs(?) which would be acceptable. After all, there is the possibility that each of us can propose a possible solution when it comes to the Law itself on Parliamentary Oversight, but I am pleased that there is a mood here to pass the Law on Parliamentary Oversight. There's so much, pure...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20777	Thank you very much. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20778	To tell my fellow Bojić, two key responsibilities or activities that parliamentarians should do, that is their legislative and control function. We are fully committed to legislation, I say fully and increasingly because we are getting little proposal from the Council of Ministers, so Parliamentarians have become key legislators, and we have almost completely ignored the control. Who says we can't control it now? So it's not just true, we're bound to do it, not do it. And you know when the situation will change, not when any law is passed, but when we're more serious. And that means that when public hearings are held regarding audit reports, not to send the accounting chief to the minister, because he's the only one who can answer and, keyly, it's 60 responsible persons to explain why what's going on. So there's no control until we decide that because some minister is acting differently than the law requires, until we call him to account and change tomorrow. But it's still more important for us whether it's my minister or yours, not whether he's doing the right thing or not. We need to be a little more self-critical when it comes to proposing any law, no law will make us do it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20779	Thank you. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20780	...by colleagues Bojić when he talks about this, uh, investigative committee and when he talks about parliamentary issues, it is exclusively a business obligation. The full ineffectiveness of our Rules of Procedure has been shown on parliamentary matters, one who cannot ask a question within one minute and one who cannot ask a question from half a minute, without one, without half a minute answer to that question he will not answer in 10 days. So, the point is... the public, and it's exclusively... When it comes to the investigative committees, this part of the supervisory role, this, the positions of the Parliamentary Assembly or Parliament, it implies that, therefore, work when it is brought to an end or when.../hard to understand......, therefore, the character of a criminal act such as any institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is prevented from doing so... and the Prosecutor's Office. So that's a clear message. We're wasting our time here on questions, yesterday we had a situation where 3 now and 10 minutes to lose, that, I'm telling you, there's no one whose... attention can be more than three grenades to make anything sublime in that. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20781	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Law No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 52nd session of the House, held on 20.09.2017. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a report on 24.10.2017. The commission passed the bill with three amendments. Representative Šefik Džaferović submitted an amendment in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Debate, Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go, buddy. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20783	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. So I went out to say that I think this is a good law, that I'm going to support it, but I think it could be even more correct, even better. The Institute of Replacement of the Penalty, legally sentenced to prison for up to a year, deals partially with this Act. And I support, therefore, this solution, but I think it would be a better solution from the aspect of equality of all citizens, regardless of the property opportunities, to remove this solution, that possibility entirely from the Criminal Law. So, to delete a complete member of 42a. The BiH Penal Code, a long time ago, because we already have in one of the next members a sanction that also allows, but by some other measure, not paying, a replacement sentence imposed in prison for up to a year, I mean this useful work. I'm saying, I think we'd better do it that way. And that's why I've been making the amendment, and here I am with him, and here I am in front of the plenary session of the House of Representatives, and I invite you to support him. But I also want to say that although this amendment is not supported I will vote for the law again, it is not a condition, so I said on the Constitutional Commission, but I wanted to say what I think about this problem. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20784	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20785	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20786	Please nice, I don't think it's correct, nobody on the display I'm... and I said I'm closing the debate. And to be serious, to stick to what we are this time is a final debate. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borislav Bojić, Law No: 01-02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. (first reading) At the 52nd session held on 20 September 2017, the House College appointed the Committee on Finance and the Budget in charge of reviewing the draft law. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 13.10.2017. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 24.10.2017. The commission found that the bill was in line with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20788	I thank the chairman. I'm simply forced to point out that I pressed the key before you concluded the debate. Anyone who paid attention saw it. I ask you to consistently apply the Rules of Procedure, you have not done so closely today. A moment ago, on the previous agenda, I was denied the right to speak, and that is not correct. I'm asking you before you say you're closing the debate to look at the screen and see. You read the prepared text while my name was standing on the screen, when you read the sentence I concluded the debate only then you saw that my name was on the screen. And this...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20789	Please, I'm warning you, we're at point 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds, You have come to the debate, I warn you by the Rules of Procedure to continue the debate in accordance with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20790	Now I'm going to continue the debate on this agenda point. This is about a second attempt to raise wages to a particular category of civil servants. Everyone who remembers well...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20791	Please don't comment from the bench. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20792	All those who remember well the things that are happening in this House remember very well that it has already been an identical attempt to raise salaries in the same category of civil servants. The justification for both the first and this time was that pay should be equalised, whether, two categories of civil servants were generally the same salary for the same job. However, neither then nor now has anyone suggested that one category be reduced to pay to equalise with the other, but both times the proposal was to increase the salary to the second category. I remind you that this law with this provision was passed in 2008 and that there was no attempt by any so-called so-called. equalizations until last year. And I can confirm, did, that certain civil servants did indeed have meetings with MPs and asked them to amend this Law in order to increase the salary of these civil servants. And it's really unacceptable, I mean things like that in the Parliamentary Assembly, that a civil servant comes to me in the cabinet and asks that our club, although it's a clear policy of the SBB that there's no salary increase, to ask our club to support a certain law. And now we have again, when it fell, I can't remember now whether it fell at the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples, now we have a situation again, one more attempt to raise wages. On the Constitutional Legal Commission, I even voted against compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system because my colleague Bojić, who is now proposing this law, explained that this law will not produce additional costs per Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget. At the very least, this is absolutely dishonest because a certain category of civil servants will increase wages. Before someone says the budget framework for next year has already been adopted, here is Mr Bevanda, who has already complained several times that the budgetary framework has not yet been adopted, right? Therefore, that argument does not stand. In any case, an increase in salary is something that should not be supported, especially if, under cover of equality. If you want to even things out, then some things can be reduced. 63 And I therefore call again on us to adopt finally Amendment II to the BiH Constitution so that there are no more constitutional ones, is there a obstacle or an excuse why both appointed and elected persons cannot cut salaries. I also call on us to support what my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, has proposed in the Rules of Procedure's Amending Commission, to get out of the Rules of Procedure. And, here, for public purposes, the only legal basis for a flat-rate day is in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure. Finally we had, I thank my colleague Kadić from the House of the Peoples who recently sent it, so the proposal to finally get rid of it in the Rules of Procedure, because the review for years indicates that these are the things that need to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20793	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20794	I thank the chairman. The institution's budget increase will not occur. The fiscal framework, I suppose, has been established, 750 million from VAT, is that right, so within that 750 million anything can be solved. We had, and here is the previous Law on Payments and Refunds of the Council of Ministers, where they are specified by the budget of compensation but there is no increase. If we're talking about savings, you know here it's really demagogy and pulsism to talk about someone's 100-200 marks of higher wages, which is an average salary in this country, and to keep quiet about the millions that are being stolen. To know, we're dealing with a thorn in the eye, and we don't see a log. I think the biggest contribution of yours, here's your family, Mr. Arnaut, would be to the budget, if we're already talking about budget savings and some honesty and here we have to have a nice all the Arnaut Dynasty pay back in the budget. I don't know if anyone, were you, your entire family, on three continents ambassadors. So let's not have to beg.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20795	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20796	Thank you very much. I just thought I'd be against it, but a colleague of Arnaut's debates cut me off. I'm kidding, of course. Um, I'm just saying what I'm about to say a few times earlier and I'm just going to repeat it in one sentence -- I'm not voting for any law on amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries until the Council of Ministers delivers in the procedure legislation that will fully regulate this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20797	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20798	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 64 Behold, I will say a few sentences concerning this Law, since I am one of those who supported it. Here we are essentially solving the problem of discrimination that exists at the moment. I'll remind you that he's a member of the 21st. The Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, Article 21, contrary to two members, Article 3(a) of the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and Article 93 (9) of the Public Procurement Act. We formed two branches, one in Mostar, one in Banja Luka when we passed the Public Procurement Act, if you remember. And it is this Law that defines a total of 17 members working in these three branches, of which nine of those who have laid down, the experts of administrative law, and eight of them are experts in the order of public procurement and transport of strategic business management, etc., that means people of technical education. However, Article 93. The law on public procurement has been said that members of the Office perform their functions, that they are independent and equal in terms of exclusion regarding the BiH Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, there has been a situation where, when determining the salaries of those employed in the Boards of Appeals, these experts in the field of administrative law have a greater coefficient than people, here I say, technical professions, and the same is the degree of education. Normally, if we go back to the Law on Payments and Refunds and consult Article 3(a) of the Law on Salaries which says that for the same job you should have the same salary then it is obvious that people have the same size of work, have the same kind of responsibility, but for this work they are not paid the same. And I call it discrimination no matter how anyone interprets it. And it's only eight people to whom this correction should be carried out. I understand, uh, and Mr. Arnaut's endeavor to interpret it in a different way, but, here, we can say it in this way, only an adequately paid official, uh, is less susceptible, a civil servant, or is by no means or less subject to bribery, will not enter the process of corruption, etc., here's to observe that fact at this point we should, in some way, respond positively to this law. And we've already done it once, and I don't know why the law didn't pass in the House of Peoples. But the obligation here that we have, in some ways, passed the Law on Public Procurement, and the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we recognise that there is a certain segment of discrimination that we eliminate. And that was, uh, the proposaler's intention, for those of us who supported it in the Finance and Budget Commission. And I don't think there's any obstacle to us not supporting it today. Once again it's only eight civil servants employed, the difference currently in their salary is 720.56 KM and it's not some significant sum. If we were to go, uh, in the story of non-enlargement, reduction, etc., here, we were just making corrections about police officers related to their addition, normally due to the volume of work and everything the law predicted, that we had to act in this way. If we were malignancies... that we were supposed to reduce their police supplement rather than increase it. I would ask all of us here to understand this proposal and to act positively again here in the House of Representatives. We've passed this law. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20799	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20800	I thank the chairman. 65 You see like this, I can support all calls to return to the budget something someone took to which they had no right, stole, and even calls, did, to return some fee for commissions. Whoever was taking fees for commissions at the time of work, even when the law allowed it, this one, especially if someone had no right to do something, such as transporting vehicles to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to committees and the House, and then gave up when it was indicated that such a right does not exist. For this reason, regardless of what the chairman of the House claims, I will ask the Secretary of the Joint Service to provide me with information on who used the official vehicles of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to transport from the place of residence or temporary stay to committee meetings and to the meetings of the House in this and last term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20801	Excuse me, counselor, where was the correction of the wrong quote under this point?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20802	There, I broke the Rules of Procedure, punish me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20803	We find that the MP has violated the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-1611/17, dated 04.07.2017. At the 53rd session held on 25 July 2017, the House College appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission responsible for considering the Report. The report was removed from the agenda of the 52nd House session due to the opportuneness of the applicant. The Constitutional Commission did not receive knowledge of the Report. I'm opening a debate. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20805	Before the debate, the Honorable Chairman, I would like you to determine who came before the institution today, whose report we are considering. So, to record who this person we're talking to today is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20806	Here, we have a representative, so, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, but at this point, we don't have the President of the Council to come to us. Shall we, I suggest we cross points and leave it possibly... 66 _________(?) Take it off the agenda. We can't get off the agenda, it's a mandatory point, only if we plead. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20812	The Honorable Chairman. In accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Damir, before the debate began, asked if you had any information that, on this point, when it came to order, there would be someone present from the institution, or whether I was the deputy or the president, you said you had that information. We came to that point, I don't see how you can't delay the debate when we also took off at the last session even though it was included in the agenda, when we came to her to discuss taking down that agenda point and calling for a case with the Minister of Security when no one was there, so we took off his point. So all the business...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20813	Dear MPs, I ask you to appeal to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have been violated at the moment. I invite you to call. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20814	You're not letting me finish what I'm talking about, you're constantly in my word, and I'm going to find, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20815	Well, that's why you called.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20816	Yours... that you are constantly violating when you enter the word or you are standing up for a pay phone, and you are proposing as chairman of something that is your duty because you manage the House and conduct the sessions, so suggest as chairman, take that responsibility, and not that here... and the ceremonies you create in the House, as if to us, you are constantly warning us of the Rules of Procedure, and today you have violated it at every point in the Rules of Procedure. So let us vote if...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20817	I ask you which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured? Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20818	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20819	Please, please, I understand that you have misused the business order and I am warning you. Please, next Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20820	I, last time we took this off the agenda, I think we should have a special session like we have in this area. We do completely irrelevant things, we have some agenda points that aren't even for the local community, and what's a crucial problem in this country we're taking down. Here, last time, now, here comes the president of the VSTV, so I think, don't let the circus that we watch on TV when it comes to all that matters to the prosecution be the subject of a debate in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20821	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20822	The Honorable Chairman. I know it's not easy for you to hold a session, but I'm also asking you to have a little sensitivity when it comes to these issues. First you cut our exposure to five minutes, expose five minutes on this subject, and this kind of problem in society is wrong. And I think you should change that for this point. So, we, a unique opportunity to see President 68 of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council at the session, it's a unique case. There are a lot of questions we want to ask him. What do you think can be done with five minutes, and what do you think especially earlier when you thought it could be done without his presence? So we need to be serious when it comes to serious issues. I'm asking you to leave 10 minutes at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20823	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Has anyone checked in? Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20824	No, I want to correct you because we said, I asked nicely at the beginning when there was a determination of the agenda, whether if you don't come to this point of the agenda chair, who came here for the time, we saw everyone, there it is now, to get off the agenda. You keep going, trying even though there's nobody left behind. This is luck, so this is how it happened for a man to get in there. And I would ask you, here, to turn to us first, not as last time, but first to address Mr. Tegeltija and then to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20825	Thank you very much. Does the introduction of this point want to address us now or after the debate is over, but here we have no reports?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20826	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20828	Dear Representatives of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, first of all allow me to welcome you on behalf of members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and on my own behalf. I am sorry that my absence caused this debate, in time, caused this debate on whether or not to be discussed, but I am coming from a session of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council that is under way, and which is still ongoing, to be at this session. Here, I did it, because of the city's crowd, to get there on time, as soon as I got word that this spot was close. You have before you a report from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2016. You have the President's opening statement, I will not waste your time reading it here again. What I want to say first of all about that report itself, that he's conceived and... in a slightly different way than he's ever been before. It covers several areas that are very important for the functioning of the judicial system, of the independence of judicial holders, efficiency and quality of judicial decision-making, i.e. prosecutorial, integrity and some other infrastructure projects that we do... At the same time, it includes reports from courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina and 69 Herzegovina, as a report, means the global situation in courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, I have to say that since this often happens, this is not a report from any of the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not one of the prosecutors, this is not a report from either the BiH Court or the BiH Prosecutor's Office, this is the report, so the roof institutions as a regulator of the justice system. I have to point out, I've prepared here a speech that is quite long, I don't want to spend much of your time, I'm sure you'll have a lot of comments, suggestions, questions, and so I'll just say a few things. The judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina is acting in very difficult conditions, conditions, first of all, one, I would say, the socio-political and economic crisis, which is inevitably being poured into all spheres of life and so on into the judicial system regarding one, I would say, seeking blame for all the bad in the judiciary. The judiciary can't be the defendant on duty, and it shouldn't be on call for anything that's wrong. Of course, there are still a lot of things in the judiciary that need to be fixed, but we are constantly working to improve what currently exists. The judicial reform didn't start two years ago, it started in 2003, we have active, active work on the so-called "Corruption". ...the process led by the Euro Commission, which makes recommendations based on which we agree our judicial system with the requirements of the European Union. In this context, here, in early November of the month we are going to Brussels to the European Commission Delegation where we will have some very important meetings with those representatives, so by the end of the year, I am sure if not by the end of the year then in the first third of next year, we will come out with some of our vision of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council. However, in the end it will be the subject of your analysis at the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples, the adoption of that Law. We will bring our proposals on the future Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VSTV into line with all European Commission requirements so that this Law is fully compatible with what the European Union requires of us in the European integration processes. I won't be longer, the report you have in front of you, it's comprehensive and, behold, I am standing at your disposal for your questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20829	The predsjedavajući came out, probably under the pressure of this session and relations in the O.R. Next is Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. _________(?) ... comeback? They'll be back soon enough, so you don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20831	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, the report is a set of statistics that does not give a picture of the situation in the judiciary. Assuming that these are accurate data, assuming that everything is as it says here, this cannot be concluded, the actual conclusion that the judiciary is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is more than clear, in a catastrophic state. That's what we've done here on this, on this House many times so far. There's a lot of reasons why it's like that. First, the High Court's 70 prosecutorial council is both responsible or solely responsible for the state of justice. He's a kind of relationship regulator through the activities he's carrying out. What is the situation in the judiciary we can read every day or hear every day at different levels. There is a serious question of cause, whether it is the competence of the High Court Prosecutor's Council, I would dare say that, with the information that I have, whether it is a legislative regulation that makes it possible for the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council to deal with the problems that are in the judiciary, of course, because the legislation has made it possible. Only if we take a way of electing members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council do we have the situation that sometimes there is a feeling that, by such delegation, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has actually been given every assumption that it does not act on what its basic obligation is, and that is the quality of the work of the judicial authorities. There could be a million examples here from both the D.A. and the courts. We debated here a few months or weeks ago here in this House and reached a conclusion and commissioned the Council of Ministers, i.e. the ministry, the competent ministry, to provide us with a new law that would in some way be or would allow for reform, which would remove responsibility from people in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in a better and different manner and choice and obligation of their behaviour. We haven't gotten that yet, but I'm going to believe that we're going to get it in some future period. The other reason, other than competence, is passivity. It is more than clear that there is a passiveity of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Well, we don't have people's criteria, enough criteria to assess the quality of work and judges and prosecutors. How many judges and prosecutors left those positions because they didn't work very well? How can we not know the criteria to determine in the right sense the quality of their work? Even there's some kind of disciplinary commission, or whatever the body's called, there's not enough criteria worked out, so what's happening to us is happening to us. Could the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council have affected that, of course he did. Whether there was an initiative I don't know, maybe there was an initiative, but they didn't materialize, they didn't materialize through the changes. I'm just getting started. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20832	Thank you, Ambassador Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20833	I made a suggestion, but the chairman of confusion didn't put it on the agenda today. I think we need to be clear about this point extending to 10 minutes of debate. I'm asking you to put it on the table. First, before I start talking to see if you're gonna do it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20834	You see, it's the right of the chair and of the College and I wouldn't, in the absence of the chairman, make that decision. So if she wants to change, I'll support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20835	So, I, what's this, here's still counting down some... One of the basic principles that should apply to the judiciary is that there should be equal justice for all victims and their families. Today... we can confidently say that this supreme principle that should apply to the judiciary has not been reached 71. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council certainly carries a solid responsibility in this regard. 13 years ago, when this institution was formed, I have to admit that everyone had great expectations and thought that things would be seriously arranged by choosing judges and prosecutors to go through a certain filter, and that people who know what they're talking about would judge it. However, we have come to a situation that is so bad that few countries could compare with us when it comes to these activities. I would like to refer to three segments within the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The first is the appointment of judicial officials at all levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the second is to establish the disciplinary responsibility of judges and prosecutors within the disciplined prosecutor and the third is – the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is the regulator, he should be the bearer of establishing ethical and professional standards for the judicial community and show how things will happen in the future, but we have failed to deal with this issue. Here are several examples that depict the true picture from the judiciary, the BiH Prosecutor's Office continues to file criminal charges for war crimes under the BiH Criminal Law and prosecutors who do so do not bear any responsibility for it, so they can do as they please. This is said by the fact that from the 346 judgment of the BiH Court of Justice, 248 BiH's Criminal Law, and only 98 under the SFRJ Penal Code, as more favourable for convicts. There is no end either, 2,208 penalties were imposed, 1,655 for Srbin, and only 553 for Bošnjak and Hrvat together. Are the prosecutor's duties amnested to uphold a law that is more favourable to convicts? The answer would have to be offered by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. So far, we're not practically both the court and the D.A.'s office are allowed to do as they please, as if the regulator doesn't exist. Plus, the process of appointing judges and prosecutors, i.e. the holder of judicial functions, is a special story. Do you know, or may you know, these days it has been very current, that some of the judges of the court and the prosecution during the war were bearers of activities in military courts, and now these same people are biased and cheerleaders are making judgments against members of the Serb people. You know there are criminal charges against certain judges and prosecutors. And it's standing somewhere without knowing what an epilogue that is. You know well that the Republic War and War Crimes Research Centre sent you information on the names of 15 judges and prosecutors from that mile, who discriminated against members of the Serb people during the war in the camps. And that answer is expected, we haven't got it yet. In the group is also Judge Šaban Maksumić, who has these days shaken Republika Srpska's public over the Naser Orić case, which was released in a first-degree verdict even though we know that it is the master of life and death, although we know that it is the man who was digging his eyes and cutting his throats and pulling the living children out of the wombs of mothers, he is not the person who should be responsible for what he did, because at least that is how Judge Šaban Makumić is Maksumić, who is one of the actors I spoke of from Viktor Bubnji. [[the speaker is warned on time]] About this, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has never said that such people have ever happened to be found again within Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary. One more question, following the submissions for the launch of the disciplinary procedure – how is it possible that there is still a drawer in the darkness of a case of Sijekovac, crimes against members of JNA, Great Park, Dobrovoljačka, Tuzlana Cola, Bradina, Cemer, Trnovo, Gorazde, Konjic, Mostar, crimes in Podrinj, Jabuka, Kravica, Josanica, Skelani and many others, Sarajevo, crimes of mujahedin in Ozren, crimes in western Ukrainian municipalities? These are the victims waiting for the epilogue, and first the High Judicial Council to start doing its job and end the 13-year-old dream that has slept so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20836	Thank you. 72 Next MP Milica Marković, I apologize, meanwhile, for correcting the wrong allegations, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20837	All of what the esteemed colleague Majkić is saying absolutely shows that we actually need a lustration of the judiciary. We can reach lustration by a new law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. We adopted this here in May of the month and asked the Justice Department to send us a new law on November 5th. What happened? I have here a letter from the respected minister of justice of Republika Srpska, Mr. Anton Kasipović, who refused to send his representative to the task force claiming that this is not the way to work the new law, but within the framework of a structural dialogue. Let me remind you that this is the dialogue that started in 2011 and has not yet received any single result. We need to clear up whether we want a new law or not, whether we want a lustration of the judiciary or not. And I'm interested in one more thing, right now, so when this session began, the media published a report on the appeal of the former chief prosecutor, Mr. Goran Salihović, to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court adopted, therefore, in part of the appeal and concluded that the disciplinary procedure really took an unreasonable length. Someone for this unreasonablely long duration of the disciplinary procedure should be held accountable. I think the High Court and Prosecutorial advice that doesn't do its job right is responsible for this whole situation in the justice system. And that's why I'm calling here and the President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the others to resign as a sign of this state of justice, and that's why they're making us solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20838	Thank you. MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20839	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start the discussion about the report, which is on the agenda, I would like to say that I would not ask after the replica, that it would be a miracle if Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević for everything that does not work in this country would not blame and condemn the institutions and people, persons, from Republika Srpska. It would be a great miracle if that didn't happen at least one session here. As for the agenda point, therefore, this report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, the material is quite extensive but what you said to me, colleague Novaković, it is full of some statistics and your, let me say, material evidence of what you did, how much you did and where this institution is today. I would go into my discussion of a sentence that you said here and you said that one of the topics, one of the judicial topics, was subject to increased public interest. I think that today's key question, therefore, is the increased public interest in the functioning and effects of judicial institutions in this country, and it is no longer new to say that the institutions, judicial institutions, especially those at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I think, first of all, the Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court of BiH, are one heavy stone around this country's neck, a stumbling block, a difficult problem for which, unfortunately, there is not enough will to get us into that problem and give certain concrete solutions. Of course, your jurisdiction applies to 73 other judicial institutions at lower levels. Even though you are obliged to appoint and resolve judges and prosecutors in the judicial institutions of this country, of course, you are also responsible for applying standards and standards in judicial practice and judicial institutions and you have talked about it in this report. Of course, you have also referred to the one where you think the judicial institutions, i.e. the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council as the regulator of these institutions, have made their contribution, are the European integrations in this country which I think, that this segment of the judiciary is still the worst of all the segments that are important in the way of the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the least sense of your contribution in this society, the contribution of the judicial institutions in that field. I wouldn't hold back on this data that you are, because it's simple, it's simple statistics as how many unworked objects have been reduced, how much efficiency has been strengthened, we could all read it, and I believe that there's nothing disputed about it, but what I would like to apostrophe, or what I would like to underline in the discussion about this report, is the responsibility you're carrying, and I'm convinced that you are fully convinced that you are aware of these responsibilities of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, not only how many cases are being processed at the end of one calendar year and the outcome of the judicial proceedings and how much judgment has been reached, but, of course, and in the general effect that these judicial institutions have with their work and my actions on, to say, the overall ambience in society. The justice system is one of the three authorities in every society. Therefore, the judicial authority is one of three authorities in every society, including ours, and is therefore expected and required that this authority delivers far better results, i.e. to make a better contribution to solving some of the problems in this society. When I say some problems, I think the obvious problem in our society is the issue of justice and justice which, which should be satisfied with the judicial work and the work of judicial institutions, but unfortunately, this is not the case with us. Republika Srpska also accepted a structural dialogue to participate in this and to work towards better solutions and to achieve better results, i.e. to raise the quality of the work of judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sadly, we also see that there were no benefits from Bog and that he did not give the expected results. What interests me most, therefore, is this, and I will conclude what I am most interested in today, and according to the fact that you are present today as the President of this institution, this question which has been touched to some extent by my colleague Majkić, which concerns certain judges in the judicial institutions, above all in the Court of Justice of BiH, which she mentioned quite concretely and clearly and I believe that you know what this is about. Since the Centre for War Crimes Research at the Republika Srpska Government has provided you with this list, that some other institutions from Republika Srpska have obtained and provided significant material, significant material and valid evidence of the engagement of these judges sitting in judicial, judicial and judicial courts today, and are associated with certain discriminatory activities in their judicial engagement. So it's about judges who were judges of military war courts and it's not a problem that they were judges, which is why they were studying schools and that's why they were educated, but the problem is their discriminatory relationship and judgments they made towards the Serb people. That, of course, wouldn't even be today, not maybe, maybe not potential. Some ordinary citizens today in Republika Srpska, but families of victims and those who have experienced severe consequences on their skin and in their lives and lives of their families because of such convictions, therefore, because of these people and because of these consequences left by those judges with this discriminatory work and with judgments, I think you have a duty to answer that question. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I specifically ask you – what will the High Court and Prosecutorial Council do about this documentation that you have received and regarding these evidences, material and valid, which exist? So, I ask you, if you can answer specifically about this at the end of our discussions today. I listened to you in the media when you spoke, I think it was 74 very, as I would say, diplomatic responses, I expect today as an MP to give a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20840	Thank you. Vice-President Šefik Džaferović, I apologized, Šemsudin Mehmedović came forward to correct the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20841	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My intervention refers to the correction of the false allegations by the distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Namely, the Constitutional Court apparently respected the appeal of former chief prosecutor, Mr Goran Salihović, in a work that has been inadmissible for a long time. In fact, I've gotten the impression that actually in this institution called VSTV, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, that actually, I've understood it as a regulator for Bosnia and Herzegovina's justice system, and it's obvious that this, this institution has been dealing with itself for a long time, and not just here on this case the chief prosecutor, because someone has consciously led to this procedure for more than a year. The chief prosecutor has been suspended, and it can be conducted for a year, otherwise it becomes a punishment, not a suspension. Another thing, didn't someone consciously make such a failure that this procedure actually has a statute of limitations. If he's got an old age, then someone consciously does it, you knew it. The third thing, the internal regulations of the operation of the VSTV, you form your own solution to the commission, the Disciplinary Commission for, here, determining the disciplinary responsibility of the chief prosecutor, you make your own, your decision to form a second-degree commission, the cadiya judges you, the cadiya sues you. That's inadmissible, you don't even have a minimum of justice within the institution itself, and we're not talking any further, that we're not saying that, here's the impression in the public that there's some internal agreement that there's going to be a statute of limitations and a return to the situation of the previous state. This is not allowed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20842	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20843	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in some ways, I'd actually like to supplement myself on the colleagues who spoke before me, so I'd just like, the information that Mr. VSTV's chairman is going to refer to the questions asked, to be referred to for example. And on the case of the Oraška group in which the prosecutor, as far as I have information, was also..., a part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, yes, uh, if we are talking about a conflict of interest to refer to such a question when answering this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20844	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here's 75.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20845	Thank you. Here, Mr. Mehmedović and Mrs. Pandurević together, as they discussed the maltenes identically when it came to the defence of former chief prosecutor Goran Salihović. And now we're back here, on the days when that former chief prosecutor, the prosecutor, waved his finger very inappropriately, threatened, etc., and among other things, probably ended up where and how he ended up. However, it is much more indicative of me, and I say this with full responsibility, that the Constitutional Court in which two judges sit at least, and as Bošnjak, I can say it, from the order of the Bosniak people, who used to sit here in these benches, and that as officials of the Party of Democratic Action, when you have two former members of the state parliament as judges of the Constitutional Court, there is no political independence or can be. It absolutely states that they formally meet the conditions, because everything the Constitution of BiH says... is a lawyer of high moral qualities. However, perception is both in politics and the right very important thing. And if two people in front of the Party of Democratic Action here in these benches, and not only as ordinary parliamentarians, but as senior officials of the Party of Democratic Action, then go to the Constitutional Court, I really cannot consider it relevant, nor the political uncolored any decision they make. And please take these facts into account before you start defending Goran Salihović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20846	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20847	Dear fellow Arnaut obviously has a problem with misunderstanding. Here no one defends Goran Salihović, but defends those who are trying to amnesty Goran Salihović because they are unreasonablely long to conduct a disciplinary procedure against him. That's the thing, fellow Arnaut, that someone consciously made a mistake. Even scarier than that, when political listeners, similars, are sitting in the Constitutional Court, however you like, is when they sit in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, when they sit in courts and prosecutions. And if we don't lie here, we know perfectly who is in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council with every name of the Council member you can freely state the political option. Either his husband, or his child, or they're high-ranking party officials, he's not that kind of guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20848	Thank you. Discussion, Šefik Džaferović, deputy chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20849	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. It is a very important topic that I would waste my time in these five minutes on the answers to the political moves that we have already had the opportunity to hear today almost all day here in Parliament. I've successfully resisted it, and this time I'll resist it. Also, I will not talk about any specific case, it is not our job, I will not talk about what law should be applied, it is a top-notch legal issue whose interpretation was dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights, and the Hague Tribunal, and the Constitutional Court of BiH and the Court of BiH, a very complicated matter. I won't even talk about the nationality of the suspects, the accused, the processed. There is no balance in war crimes trials because there was no balance in the execution of war crimes. There are those who are fundamentally suspected of committing a crime and anyone who has committed a crime should be responsible for this crime. And that's the job of courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Allow me to say in this short time that at the session when we discussed corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have proposed some conclusions that I consider extremely important, some of which concern both the work of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is an unusually important institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. The power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. The judiciary authority is a very important and strong pillar of the Bosnia and Herzegovina system, and an institution headed by what someone here says is called the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Great responsibility, and before that, i.e., and great rights. I think that we should approach the amendment of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we should consider this well and firstly arrange for a completely transparent, concrete and precise way of electing members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. So that's the point that goes into this area, then it's all a manifestation of it. The judicial reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina has yielded results, we cannot say it has not produced results, but we have reached the point in which we must take this step. And that's why I suggested a few conclusions last time, now I'm just going to repeat them. So, that we should be in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council to make each one of its responsibilities more transparent and responsible; to ensure more efficient and functional structure of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, both in terms of the composition of the Council, and in terms of the dominant influence of the judges on the choice of judges, or prosecutors on the choice of prosecutors; possible introduction of councils, not the two councils, the councils, the councils in the context of the Single Council; in order to make the process of choice of judges and prosecutors more objective and to make them fully transparent; in order to be elected the most professional staff; in order to strengthen the conditions for the selection of judges and prosecutors in the judiciary, so as to make sure that the judicial system of justice and the justice in the justice system is done; that the justice system and the justice system of the judiciary is done in particular, so that the prosecutions are responsible for the prosecution's work, so that they can take place; so that they can take the main steps; so that they can be taken by the main actions; so that they can be taken from the main judges and the justices; I mean, this went online, and I'm not going to propose this today as special conclusions, which the Department of Justice and the High Court and Prosecution Council have. We have obliged you to take initiative, legislative and all the others within six months, in order for this issue to be settled, here, in the way I have now spoken. Believe that without it, we're going to have a hard time making some steps. We can still open up a lot of stories, a lot of stories, but this is, I think, a step that we need to deal with intensively in this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20850	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20851	Thank you, Chairman. It is a false allegation that counterpart Džaferović is here seeking balance in war crimes charges. Of course, that's not true, no one is looking for a balance here, this at least I didn't realize, colleague Majkić, she was talking about irregularities in some procedures. She pointed out that as a problem, not as a need for us to determine the balance, and at all whether it was possible to determine any balance. Second, someone here mentioned the public, or something, in the paper. I must say, on page 51, we have an amazing finding that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council was engaged in training journalists and spokeswoman prosecutors as to how they properly inform the public instead of training prosecutors. Instead of spending money there, we spend money on journalists to keep them informed as the High Court and Prosecutorial Council expects them to or the prosecutor. Then what about the minister when he comes out and informs a little differently than the D.A.'s office. Should he be trained to discuss it the way the D.A. expects him to discuss it? Please, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is responsible for the independent, impartial, means, and the professional judiciary. Do we have today, simply simply... do we today have an independent, impartial and professional judiciary? We don't. What does the High Court and Prosecution Council need? They should resign, I guess, simply and simply, has a goal, has tasks, has not met the goal, gentlemen. And it's been going on for years, it's not this call. Well, watch out, so you have eight years of necessary experience for every high office in the judiciary and the prosecution, and you don't have eight years necessary for a member of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of Experience,...a little, and they regulate, he's the regulator, he's the key to that story. And there's a series of anomalies here, We can do a series of numbers, we can do the numbers one way or the other, there's not a lot of people responsible for this today. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is at the top of the pyramid. They accepted it or they didn't accept it, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20852	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20853	It's the easiest thing to do when someone else is to blame. Unfortunately for us, no one in all of these so far's speeches has highlighted our guilt. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is to blame that the situation is as it is, but we haven't said why we haven't passed a new law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in 13 years and done what we think we should do. I think, colleague Džaferović, that all of what you just said when it was introduced into that new bill is no guarantee that it will be adopted. Why? Because... a position in which, when it comes to the judiciary, in which Bošnjak are, mostly Bošnjak so far, will be difficult to put into effect and allow all three nations, when it comes to the judiciary, to be at the same level, to be almost impossible. We talked a little bit about the Constitutional Court, although it is not the jurisdiction of the VSTS, will never be accepted by the Constitutional Court Act because these two Bošnjak, which are now spoken of, will never agree to be there. There you can see how hypocritical it is to talk about justice, and to keep... the level. Did we have a soon-to-be Judge of the Court of Justice of BiH, or the President of the Court, who cheered and dressed. It is embarrassing to judge a people by the penalties, by law of the former, uh, new BiH law, and to judge their own people by law, this, former Yugoslavia. These are things I can't explain. My question... why didn't the High Court and Prosecutor's advice respond to that, even though I am aware of the guilt of all of us personally, which is why this new law didn't take place. Mr. 78 Džaferović, you have been in this Parliament for many years, and we ourselves bear responsibility for which no such change has taken place.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20854	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20855	I really don't want to pollemize, but if we're going this way, then we're going somewhere else. And that is for all to know. Don't forget the letter to the president of Republika Srpska from a member of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and it is publicly presented in all the media, let's not forget, and now I could go from people to people, we need to find a principle in which something called the judiciary in its entire structure will be something that is the basis of the citizens of this country, not the basis of political oligarchies. Today, whether they want it or not, it's the backdrop of political oligarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20856	Thank you. Discussion, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20857	I thank the chairman. And just today, here's the debate of my colleagues and colleagues showing that the judiciary, or justice, is not going to happen as long as we talk about blood cells. So neither does this report, which is what it is, always gets some connotation of blood cells. I'll start with, from what the president gave me a good creamworth, and that's the judiciary acting under the conditions of the socio-political and economic crisis. That's true, it's just a question of how much all of this that you've counted affects the judiciary, that is, you as the holders of judicial functions, especially this economic crisis. I don't think it touches you, and neither do we, these three pillars of government don't really touch it because, uh, it used to be confirmed that during the term of office you don't touch the wages and the rest. And what interests me, as well as my representative, and also as a citizen, is why you are the holders of judicial functions, as well as you from the VSTV, are still untouchable, still untransparent in your personal information about you. And even in your Report here you do not state that you are still in some procedure or phase of publication, that is how you will treat the property records of appointed holders of judicial functions, you do not seem to have agreed yet, etc., etc. So, this economic crisis is none of your business, nor is it touching you, and it looks like you won't do anything about making your data, your property records and everything else publicly available. Why does it matter? It's just because from year to year when VSTV reports are analyzed, when we analyzed for 2015, that report that we only receive from here is not received from the knowledge, because it wasn't enough for the majority to receive. Today, however, we can only discuss, conduct a debate, nothing will happen and today we will discuss 2016. And in that report of yours you state, and that is what I would disagree with my colleague Novaković, but this is not a replica, but I think it is in the report, and also in the records of your sessions, which I have reviewed, when I could open because not all 79 documents on your portals can be opened, so it says that in December you adopted the criteria, in 2016 the VSTV adopted the criteria for assessing the work of judges in Bosnia and Herzegovina and these criteria are on the VSTV portal. There are true, whoever deals with it and who wants, when they read the criteria of what it says, the procedure, how it is reported about the work, that is, by those criteria as it enters the database, almost all of it and the judge and the prosecutor, the holder of the judicial functions, that means that you, Mr. Tegeltija, as president of the VSTV, have absolutely all the information about everything and one judge, about his work and how they are evaluated, whether their assessment is adequate or not, which means that one man in Bosnia and Herzegovina has all that information. But the question is why this information is not transparent and publicly available, why, when you type in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, you can see how many MPs or MPs have reported their way, how much pay, how much compensation, how separate life is, why we can't know why the judiciary is untouchable. And why it's interpreted, when we're looking for why it's interpreted as a blow to VSTV's independence as well as judicial functions. And when we talk about the independence of the judiciary, the VSTV or the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I wonder why there is not a single sentence in your 2016 report on the Chitluk case. Eh, that independence we see from the fact that the appointed judges, judges, pardons, and there are names revealed on the VSTV portal on 10.11.2016, who was appointed, when, where, when to take over, this, this, this function, and says – when making the decision to appoint VSTV took into account the criteria of expertise, work experience, work results, professional skills, so all the profession, profession, profession, profession, and that is very commendable. But suddenly there's a blood cell, and suddenly two judges can't take over their function. Why? This is not what we can find transparently and publicly here in the Parliamentary Assembly, but that we must finely through the media to find out, and the president will not write in his Work Report. And then we find out, you know, that there's the mayor of the HDZ municipality Marin Radišić, says – I can't have two Bošnjakinje, there should be more Hrvatica, there can be one Srpkinja, now this profession, work, qualifications, references, it doesn't interest anyone anymore. And so I read your sessions, I watch the records, I delay the debate, I delay the debate. And why I have to run for information, why in the 2016 Work Report, there's no information on why you name someone based on your profession and qualifications, and then you take him down fine, we don't know why, and he can't take office. So now that I'm talking about this, you're probably gonna go there now for the pay phone, like you did last year, or last time. When we discussed your report, and said –... when one case is mentioned it is a blow to the independence of the judiciary and I will not go into details. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This isn't an independent strike, this is, uh, transparent, publicly available information. So when we talk about your independence, everything is, uh, questionable and it actually says how ethical you are and how ethnic you are. In the whole institution, I'd say you're more ethnic than ethical. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20858	Thank you. Discussion, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20859	I thank you. It's not the chairman now. It's the chairman. Bosić, this is a bit of a joke, don't be mad. I've been here according to your previous report, the past, saying and you've been keeping a close record of something, I remember it well, so I've been telling you cases, and you've been looking at me and you've been keeping a close record of 80. And, behold, it has been a year since that careful record - nothing. Once again here publicly on the air, in the microphone, tomorrow it remains as permanent, notes from these sessions, I personally filed criminal charges for the destruction of property in Bosnia and Herzegovina, alienation and robbery of money. I've never been contacted, the only answer I got from the Federation Financial Police is that what I delivered to them was to the D.A.'s office and they're waiting for instructions from them. These instructions were received – never. How is that possible? So, the undisputed firm that was called Union Invest Unikali is missing. We are the only country in Europe where we have to bring in people who will have to come and serve it now from Slovenia, because this company is missing. Land and facilities sold, train equipment transported to Slovenia, workers fired, and what the country, land and facilities sold, transferred to Slovenia. And I delivered it all and no one reacted. It's just one example. Maybe I'm one of the few here who told me about the assembly speaker on the air – yes, I was offered a bribe of so much and so much, the purse was brought with that money, only to raise my hand to keep the SDP in power. And no one contacted me. Not that you're political, not that you're focused, but absolutely everything under a handful of politics. Yeah, under a handful of politics. And instead of you, because this period will pass, you need to keep working and living, instead of pulling yourself out of these plowings you still, I don't speak personally, personally you, that you don't think that..., to speak to you, but to speak to the system, you semitronize politics. There are some people out there who I know myself, they're both entities, and I've had a chance to work with them, so when I meet them, they say, "You know, Zaime, don't mess around, I have to because it's like that." Because if he gets hurt, his politics will run out of bread. How is that possible? I don't want to talk about the report anymore because in dozens of cases, I know where due to a relatively old age, there's no charge filed, out-of-date, where due to the delay of absolute obsolescence – old age, dozens of such cases I know. What is it, my people, in this country? Don't forget that we have people, that's for you, Mr. Tegeltija, who are richer than Bil Gejts, Bil Gejts has 70 billion, but he's got it on the globe, and ours has won it at 3.5 million. And not that, but one for a million and something, and the other for two million and something. Share it with them and you'll see that they're richer than biti Gejts, literally richer. What does that mean to you, how is it possible to acquire a population of 3.5 million people across the country? [[the speaker is warned on time]] There will be no one there to deal seriously with the real problems of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20860	Thank you. Because we don't have a quorum for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20861	We have a quorum, we continue with the session. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20862	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council should represent a key institution that manages the judiciary throughout the country, but I'm afraid that's not the case. All of today's discussions show that in 81 perceptions of lawmakers, therefore as part of the legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they have not done their job properly. We are aware of the fact that the law under which they operate has shortcomings, especially with regard to the appointment and disciplinary procedures, conflicts of interest, although they have done something in this field, particularly the declaration of property status as well as the right to appeal for final decisions of the VSTV. These issues should be addressed in light of the opinion of the Venice Commission and the recommendations of the European Commission within the framework of a structured dialogue on justice between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Other issues concerning greater transparency of the VSTV session, the improvement of voting procedures as well as the exceptions and transfer of judges and prosecutors should be addressed through the change of the relevant Rules of Procedure. Very loose property reporting regulations require a serious financial report to be delivered by both judges and prosecutors and no mechanism should be sought for their publication. This should be done in the way that it is done with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the way MPs do. The presidents of the courts and the chief prosecutors can also be members of the VSTV, and their position as executive officers of a particular judicial institution can lead to conflicts of interest, and this is already the case, and we talked about it during the last, and the previous report, and there is no movement. There is no limit to the progress of members to a certain period after the end of the term of office in the VSTV, given that the conflict of interest Regulation is not limited to the progress of members during their term of office, the causal consequence is that it is not limited even after the term of office has ceased. I didn't get the impression, and I don't know, I don't think there's any new information about how it's changed. It is not limited to the progress of the VSTV members during the term of office itself. The members of the VSTV as a monopoly body in charge of the appointment of persons as the holder of the judicial authority, as well as the monopoly of decision-making decisions on the promotion of judicial authorities' institutions are not limited, so that they can apply for a leadership position within the judiciary during the term of office. This leads to a direct conflict of interest among the members of the VSTV, so I am now asking – if MPs must respect the strict Law on conflict of interest, and we and members of our families, why does such a same right not apply to the third pillar of government, or legislative (?) Power. They have a direct rule to apply. I wish I hadn't read these recommendations of yours, you're looking again for independence in financing. I ask you – are you embarrassed to ask yourself to be the formal proposings of judicial budgets for courts, prosecutors and yourself? I ask you – is it uncomfortable for you to see the strikers, who in 20 years of higher education have salaries of 1,400 marks, some of them lower? I don't think that your financial independence stands. Why don't you do it yourself and finally amend the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of Ministers' Law without expecting it. And I ask you -- why didn't you do all this before because you had the European Commission's Opinion on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress report which specifically referred to you and wrote that you had very limited progress and only on some internal acts of conflict of interest? You have here, I'm going to say something that your colleagues said, you say you want to work to improve communication and relations with the media and users of the courts with the aim of creating a positive opinion of the public exchange of justice. Please have a nice, positive opinion of the public is created by successful work, efficiency and appointment of highly qualified and best staff, and faster solving cases, which is not the case with you in any case. I still want to say that it is recommended that the highest court cases continue to bring court practice into line, I would like you to tell me – why in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have several... criminal laws, why are they not in line? I too feel uncomfortable when they ask such a question beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in the European Parliament. Too idyllic to me, this crime structure you're showing here seems too idyllic to me, especially in the chapters of crimes against property. Robbery is getting more and more, it's impossible that this figure is the way it is, this seems to me like it's haired, untrue, I don't want to personally insult you, maybe they've supplied you with false information, especially in a segment of crimes against property, 82 especially in a segment of crimes against life and the body. You are aware of the fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are more and more paedophiles, more rapists, more and more violent people, even in primary schools. Please face Get with it and do something in that field. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think you have good wages just like us, and I think you should do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20863	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20864	Well, I'm obliged to correct the false allegations of colleague Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. I'm doing it with a little delay for two reasons. I waited for my colleague to return to the hall, and in the meantime, I checked the data on the appointment of judges to the Court of Citluk, so I wouldn't speak casually, and I wouldn't say something that wasn't a fact. In the Citluk Municipal Court, four judges of the Municipal Court were appointed, according to the nationality of two Hrvat, one Bošnjak, one Srbin. I remind you, I'm in the middle of a situation in '91. In 2013 and in Citluk municipality live with 95%, and probably something more, Hrvat. I also remind myself of the legal obligation to keep the appointment of judges on the national composition of the county-level population, I suppose, and this national composition of the population, judges in the Citluk Municipal Court, not responding, of course, to the national composition of the population, but it is what it is, and not what the colleague said about it. It was different the first appointment from the VSTV, there were many objections to this first appointment, not only for reasons of nationality, but because this one, which was not used, was used by it, the order that was created on that expert part of the study. And I reacted to that in my last report for the previous year of VSTV. The VSTV noticed, so to speak, that one little distraction, made a new decision where one replacement of the judge was made. I'll use my time, I won't, uh, from the debate, here, and in this way the judge who was newly named was better reputed in that professional part of the judge, uh, who, than the judge who wasn't appointed. What was particularly disturbing to me was the name and last name of a young chief, and by my court of quality, the Citluk Municipality, and she put in his mouth words that he certainly did not say. Easily putting, easy speaking or putting in someone's mouth what they didn't say seems to me to be immutable.(?) Today's session of this House. That's correcting the wrong quote. I'll be very brief, if, since I'm, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20865	We've got to go before that. We've got another correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20866	Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20867	Thank you very much. Maja Gasasl-Gasasl-Vražalica, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20868	So, I didn't, firstly, put anything in my mouth, Mr. Kožul, I said that I didn't have official data in this report because the report wasn't about it, and that's 2016, I said – probably under pressure because the gentleman is in the media, I can give you if you want to copy yourself and read all the media acts, both Mr. Tegeltija, and the young person concerned, believedly qualified, because otherwise HDZ named by qualifications not by party membership and good deeds in the party, so that I handled what it says that this, I don't even know the names, or I want to talk about individual cases, but I say that the VSTV published on its portal on 10.11.2016, who was admitted and appointed – Court Chitluk, and said they ran their names, the results in careers, the ability, the names, and the names of two names, and no names of the names, and no names of the names. And I ask, I want transparent information, I hope Mr. Tegelti, when he speaks to the esteemed House, will say what happened. And then if you say it takes three, that the law somewhere, I've been reading the law and the criteria, and it doesn't say that it's an excessive blood cell, and then based on blood cells, we're going to evaluate someone's expertise. If that were the case, it wouldn't have been wrong in the first appointment. So here we have procedurally that someone was appointed and later when it took the ceremony to hold 22.11. at 12 o'clock there were no of these persons appointed. So, I didn't put anything in anyone's mouth, nor do I remember, I have... share if you're interested so read a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20869	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, Chairman Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20870	Thank you very much. I'm not so prone to some sort of correction, especially because they're guilty at the beginning, so it can't be fixed at all, but this time I'm correcting the wrong quote of my colleague, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, that HDZ doesn't appoint chiefs, he's proposing and running, as well as other political parties and independent candidates, and the people have chosen them, the people choose them, as in this case, when it comes to the head of the Citluk Municipality. I hope you understand what I'm saying. I'm glad we know how to choose. Here, just so much... Thank you very much. Representative Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20871	Thank you. In line with the Rules of Procedure which is the Constitution of our work here, I ask you to stop and not allow discussions that do not have a touch point with the agenda. We are on the agenda today – The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, etc., and here it has gone too far, i.e. something that has nothing to do with what we are talking about 84 about. I'd like to ask you and your colleagues, and among other things, a colleague of the previous speaker, when he says that someone...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20872	Please, counselor, what article of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20873	So, setting the agenda, or agenda, that is, slowly, Article 70, Article 71, Article 72. And we've adopted it, and we're not talking about the agenda now, but we're talking about the mayors of the municipalities, what's who to whom you put in your mouth...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20874	Please, please, we have completed these articles that you have adopted and do not abuse the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20875	I'm going to have a very short discussion, so I don't repeat myself. Many things are said here, I sign a lot of what is said and what my colleague Majkić said about different laws, that is, the selective application of the law in the processing of war crimes, we have talked about it many times in this House, and what counterpart Gasal-Vražalica-Devil said about property transparency and the need for this transparency of these court and prosecutorial functions. Perhaps one detail, not as important or irrelevant as it is, but sometimes it is, reading the composition of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, here's how this time we're not dealing with the national balance, what might be a bit of a problem and what could be improved, the regional balance, of 16 members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I don't see any coming from part of Bosnia and Herzegovina called Hercegovina, at least not working there. The judges are from Bihac, Doboj, Banja Luka, Tuzle, etc., people who work in Sarajevo. Perhaps it would be a good balance, perhaps it would also help with better work by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, if we had people from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to do better. Well, here, I hope, so probably, I hope, and the chairman of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council will respond, I hope that it was partly repaired in 2017. In fact, I am interested, reading this, I have seen four members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, i.e. four members of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, expire until today in 2017. If, however, this is not certainly the subject of the 2016 Report, but we could use information on what is with these mandates, whether we have new people, whether these mandates have been renewed and renewed in time and whether the composition of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is compared to the one that we have here presented for 2016 at this point is different, and also from the aspect of this, to call it the regional balance criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20876	Thank you. Debate, Deputy Mladen Bosić. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20877	I have not seen such a unique discussion in Parliament, or House of Representatives. All discussions suggest a catastrophic situation in the judicial system on all new ones in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That was the last time we had a special session with the subject of the judiciary, and I will remind you that the conclusion was that within four months, it seems to me, that the Council of Ministers has delivered a new Bill on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council along with the laws which, in order to reform the judiciary still needs to be changed in the judicial system. The deadline this House of Representatives gave to prepare the bill expires on November 4th or 5th, which means in a few days. I don't know if the bill has been prepared, I'd like to hear from the chairman of the Council of Ministers what happened to the request of the House of Representatives. If not prepared, who has obstructed the preparation of the proposal, because here from these discussions all political parties and all MPs claim that this system is not working right now. I'm saying it's not about people, I say again, it's not about corrupt people, it's about a system that's made that corruption can take hold. And I'm convinced that you're bringing in members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and bringing in the heads of the prosecutors, and I don't know who else, from Sweden, that in a year's time in this system, they'll be doing exactly what these current representatives are doing. So, I don't think there's a problem in people, the problem is in the system. Who's in charge of changing the system? So the BiH Parliament that makes the laws what that system looks like. So we're here to blame for what the judiciary is like it is. Now I'm curious, obviously we're not all being honest, so I'm wondering why this House of Representatives isn't able to discuss this proposal because I was convinced that if any proposal comes, that there will be enough consensus and enough majority to make the basic changes that will push this whole thing forward. So, according to the information I have on this proposal will not be prepared on November 4th, we have nothing to talk about here and we won't be able to change anything in the judicial system. And our whole story and discussion has already been heard several times in this House of Representatives, and will not yield any results until there is a new proposal that we will then try to change and agree on. There's nothing to talk about. So, I'd like to hear from the chairman, first of all, what about the proposal and if he's unable to fulfill what the House of Representatives has been looking for, who is the one blocking the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20878	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20879	Well, there's been a lot of noise, but obviously, everyone, everyone's pretending to be the naive foxes here in this room. That is, we are all talking about the responsibility of the VSTV, and no one is responding, talking about the responsibility of political leaders and political parties. What happens in the VSTV is just a reflection of the influence of political parties on VSTV members. A kolegica, Kapetanović. Gasal, mentioned some of the things that, here, can be crucial in order to have a certain independence for those people sitting in VSTV. That's for example. the property record, providing insight into the property status of the VSTV members, then also the Law of Conflict of Interest, that we know where the persons who are connected are both related and otherwise with the VSTV members, and not to listen to speculation, I don't know, that the president, members of the VSTV, are funded by political parties, funded by private entrepreneurs, are working in accordance with certain guidelines from various centres of power, to appoint judges and prosecutors in the same way when they get papers from political parties. So come on, try and be yourself a little more 86 independent, transparent in your work. It is certain that politics has a huge impact, that the VSTV as well as the entire judiciary is influenced by political, certain parties. I also think, colleague Majkić, don't get me wrong again, but that your story about war crimes is just a detour from the topic of political crime and corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that the last thing we all need here is counting the blood of grains, as says colleague Gasal, because it's simply making decisions that, which are difficult to implement and it's hard to stand behind words when you talk about both war crimes and the trial of war crimes cases. I wish the issue of war crimes and the trial of war criminals had ended long ago, and it should have ended 15 to 20 years ago by radically speeding up trial and verdicts. However, you have a V.D. The chief prosecutor you are now supporting, in a way, and she led the report within the BiH Prosecutor's Office and you have a terrible fall in confirmed indictments in the BiH prosecution. In this year, it seems to me, only 23 confirmed indictments, last year 94, and one of them is only from this statistical review of the VSTV, which cannot give the right state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, only one fact, means that during 2016 the prosecution filed 195 counts of corruption crimes, which is 20% less than the number of charges brought against corruption in 2015. So, from the number that was disastrously small, 244 charged with corruption, you have in 2016 a fifth less corruption charges, and we see what the situation is. I don't know again, we're all trying to talk, here's like the Council of Ministers, the government of entity, here's this VSTV report, that the situation is getting better and better, but this country is sinking, sinking, people are disappearing, leaving because of this system, and I agree with Mr. Bosić, who we create here in the legislative body. But when you come out with the bill's proposals, she hears certain colleagues and colleagues saying it's not our job, it's the Council of Ministers' business and we need to wait for them. Obviously, if we wait for them, no reform or system law in this country will be changed. And, here I am also calling, although there is already a certain, certain discussion on the amendment of the VSTV Act, which should certainly go towards the division of the VSTV into the judicial and prosecutorial section, to the exclusion of lawyers as members of the VSTV, because it is simply not normal in any country to have a situation for people who are involved in the proceedings to decide on the appointments of these same people. Also by rejecting prosecutors from the judges' appointments, means judicial functions, and that is also to be discussed. All we have here is a reflection of 20 years of political crime and corruption, inconsistency in the story and concern of so-called ethnic interests, national interests, which are actually interests in preserving criminal positions in public enterprises. And that is the problem of this country, the fundamental problem of this country, and which will hardly be resolved in both our mandates and our next mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20880	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20881	Listen, colleague Bećirović, I'd probably be so relieved when I talk about war criminals that I'm in a position where you and your people are in. Although many courts have ruled that Srbin are exposed to mass casualties, there is no verdict of any court against the commander of the BiH Army for the crimes committed. So do you think that's justice? Do you think that justice is this information that I made that 248 judgments passed under the BiH Criminal Law, and only 98 under the SFRJ Criminal Law, this applies to representatives of the Serb people? So, on behalf of that pitet, don't say things politically because it's not 87 straight, it's about dead people waiting and their families waiting to get a satisfaction trial. And to implicate anything else in that, the question of sanctioning the acts of corruption is not on me, on the SNSD, the question to which the judiciary should answer. And who's stopping them from answering that? Is someone holding them back? If he's stalling, they're supposed to say, "Yes, he's holding us back, we can't work." Why are cases so high in the D.A.'s office and why aren't they being prosecuted? So, please, when you talk about victims talking to the necessary pie, don't create a shadow that you don't need.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20882	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20883	The breach of the Rules of Procedure by the Speakers of Parliament's House of Representatives, Article 76, position (2) – the MP may request a word to correct the correction of the wrong allegations, i.e. the explanation may take two minutes and cannot be used more than twice, as we see Dušanka Majkić three times.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20884	I'm asking services to check if there were any corrections to the misstatement three times. I didn't see it register, if it missed then, was it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Third time. A business remark has been justified and colleagues of Dušanka vi have violated the business provision.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20886	/No ikrophone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20887	Okay, we're realizing there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20888	Okay, here I am correcting the allegations of colleague Majkić. I don't know what position I'm in, and here from this position I'm saying I can't look at war crimes statistically and by numbers. And I call on all the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina to speed up the work on war crimes cases against all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'd like you to support that and say the same thing. And you can't wake up and you'll never be able to realize what happened in the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina on statistical indicators and the number of years convicted. Thank you. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20889	Thank you. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20890	The correction of the wrong allegation concerns the discussion of counterpart Bećirović, who said the ethnic interests are a cover for criminal and corruption interests. I can understand, Mr. Bećirović, that you do not understand or understand what ethnic interests are, but in that misunderstanding you must make sure that you do not offend anyone. So, don't hurt the victims and those who have suffered a lot because today, some judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have not satisfied justice and justice with their decisions. And it is not you, nor any MP here, who has the right to say that, that a family or someone's child waiting for another 20 years and perhaps more, or a wife, to find a husband and father from that family, and has not been found to date, and someone has not judged properly, to say that such interests are covered by corruption and criminal interests. It's a shame you said today, I'm asking you to take care of it. You do not have to declare yourself and keep an eye on your discussions on what is the interest of the Bosniak people, what is Croatian, what is Serbian, what is others living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but there is no one, it does not allow you to dispute if Serbian MPs have the need and demand to ask for some things to be satisfied in this country. And we're not looking for anything that's irrational and impossible, but just for the judicial institutions to do professionally and to do what they're expected to do, because that's what all the citizens of this country pay for, and that's why they're eventually set up. But it doesn't give anyone the right to, those who have suffered, who have been victims and who have certain consequences in their family and private grains, that you are under the assumption today that it's someone's criminal or corrupt interest. It's really inadmissible and offensive for everyone here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20891	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20892	I'd ask, that's a guilty allegation one, the other, that I don't list names anymore, that the peoples don't mention them here, because crime has no name and last name, and those who did it, which applies to those who are citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and who have been transported to us from different sides, but not only from one, but we also have Francuz, we have Poljak, and Rus, and Arap, and Grk, and Bugar, and I don't know who we didn't have here anymore, that we don't remember the names of the people. The peoples didn't commit crimes, the crimes were committed by some in and on behalf of, probably, the breakthrough of those who today have a fat bag and run essentially all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20893	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20894	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 89 Since this debate is very exhaustive, I will briefly ask one question with my comment the chairman of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. How does the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council express and carry out its mission allow it equal access to justice and equality of all citizens before the law, I will ask a question – why are there no cases in public and media called cases of political murder until today, because the media almost daily or countless times write and provide various information on cases of murders associated with a political background, and as we know there is no judicial epilogue, or no processing of such cases? I think the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina should finally, and rightly so, get information from judicial institutions whether all that information that is in the media is true, true, whether it has grounds for such media inscriptions, because that is the basic reason why it creates mistrust with all judicial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20895	Thank you. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20896	Chairman, I'm sorry, I didn't pick up in time. My replica, i.e. the correction of the wrong quote, refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Backović. So it is absolutely not disputed that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to war crimes, anyone who committed war crimes should be prosecuted, but public perception in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not convincing in this regard. So, judicial institutions, and in this sense the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, must do everything possible to gain a higher level of trust, is not convincing. And I need to tell you right away with members of the Serb people in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina there is such a picture. It is only possible to believe in the proper work of judicial institutions if all cases are prosecuted, anyone who has committed war crimes in any sense in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, there are no convincing stories about the appointment of senior officials to the prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice. Lensive suspicions can be the basis for manipulation of this. It is not convincing if from one place to these two institutions you have 10, 11 or 12 judges and prosecutors most directly involved in the wartime in the judicial system, and one of the greatest war crimes against the Serb people is being committed in that place. Then what do we need to talk about? How is it possible now to convince representatives of the Serbian people, as a constituent nation, that these institutions are doing the right thing? So there's a possible way to eliminate such... so I'm not saying that these judges and prosecutors are doing it wrong, but they're not convincing cases and they have to eliminate all those who could in any way affect it. It's certainly important for the D.A. prove cases based on documentation and what would be convincing of the verdict. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20897	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20898	Is there any court that's good for you? From that International Court of Justice as the highest judicial body of the United Nations to the International Criminal Tribunal for 90 former Yugoslavia, to the Court of BiH. And no one on the planet is good, only a party leader who makes catastrophic statements to a guy that judges can't be Muslims at all, he says, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's just sort things out in our seats and you try, in a way, more realistically to see the situation and the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that we can all finally turn a little bit towards the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20899	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20900	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency. Two, three times I checked out, so I checked in, but they're really vivid all these discussions that we have here today, and I think one part of them can help improve the situation at least when it comes to this, through this VSTV report. But I've been through this whole discussion a little bit, and I'm thinking whether I'm listening to the report or we're discussing a report on the prosecution's work, the work of the court, or the work of the VSTV, so. But I also understand perfectly the situation in the VSTV for one simple reason because it has gathered there as it gathers in Bosnia and Herzegovina and then you have to make some kind of decision that is probably not as good as the other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, it shouldn't be an excuse at least when it comes to the VSTV, but we're also the body, as the esteemed colleague Džaferović told us, one of the pillars, so if someone were to discuss our work, it would probably be a similar debate, since we're not doing anything either. But, here, we are fortunate that no one can discuss us, nor can anyone change us, nor has an emergency election, and it is also wrongly placed, at least when it comes to the perpetrators of the prosecution, or these positions, that they are mainly chosen in such a way for life, and that no one can change them in principle. The only thing that's interesting is that mostly three of the chief prosecutors started up to half of it, so they got rid of it. Now the question is, why are they resolved? Either because they wanted to work, so some people stopped them, probably there might be some, or they didn't work, so they replaced them. So these are key issues, perhaps when it comes to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because here is the Honorable Prosecutor, Chief Prosecutor Jurčević, via Barašin, Salihović, who has not finished or welcomed the end of the term, probably for some reason. I think we really need to ask the Council of Ministers to respect what this House has concluded and to try to reach a new Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, but I think we need to speak openly on the basis of the experiences we have so far and everything we have heard through these years when it comes to the work of the Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the Court of Justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why? Because I think, so I think Bosnia and Herzegovina has made the biggest mistake of not having a special war crimes court to solve the issue of war crimes before and so as not to burden Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, here I mean anyone who is involved in any way and committed a crime of war. I think that because of the situation we're in when it comes to crime and corruption that we need and we need to think if we have the strength to make such a decision, that we have a special prosecutor's office for that, which in a quick and effective way will confront this state in which we are, and most of today's speakers have said it's the first, and I can say it, the first or the biggest problem of this country's crime and corruption. There is, therefore, I can freely state the victim of the prosecution's decision. Probably never asked that prosecutor what he did or should've put me in jail. So these are things, so these are the damages that, for the rest of my life, not just to me, but to my family, perhaps to my descendants who will come behind. There are probably 91 different situations, and there are those who have good relationships and no one can reach them, there are those. So we all know that's the state of our country. How can we change the situation, it is a matter, therefore, individual, but ultimately should be the opinion of this Parliament. But, therefore, that we must or should consider whether the situation in the process of war crimes will yet be considered For the next 30 years, as we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or not. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think it burdens Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it should be faster and quickly completed that children born in '95, after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, would not bear the burden of the situation in society because of what has been happening since '92. '95. A year. So when it comes to crime, I'll repeat, when it comes to, uh, crime. And corruption, I think, is the only thing that can help us is some special department of special prosecutor's office, and of course when it comes to the choice of prosecutors themselves, and... that's the story that we need to talk about, and there's probably room to talk all day. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20901	Thank you. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20902	I understand the political position of distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović that he is preparing for the upcoming elections for an important position in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but right away, you are not convincing, I don't think you'll be a bigger Bošnjak than the other one. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If you ask me what I stand for, I advocate the rule of law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the judicial institutions established in accordance with the Constitution that every citizen will believe, which will strongly sanction every kind of violation of the law, I just... segments spoke. You are constantly facing President Dodik, which is absolutely unnecessary, I must tell you honestly, and I am not sure that you are behind this kind of judicial institutions in any way, nor are you convinced to the extent that you are trying so sophisticatedly to prepare for the upcoming elections, because not all four years are electoral, there is only a month in the campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20903	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20904	I give up, there's no need. It's all...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20905	Thank you. Please remove your login from the display. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20906	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 92 I am glad that Mr Ahmetović is better and that he discussed it, I expected a more intense discussion. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to his claim that Mr. GospodinDžaferović stated that there is a third pillar of power, that the judiciary represents the third pillar of power. It's not something Mr. Džaferović invented, but it's in democratic systems, the government is divided into legislative, judicial and executive. But I know that you always have a good desire to very often mention Mr. Džaferović, You and a few other colleagues, and it makes me very happy, when every time you mention his name to me is a heart a lot. And it's a good thing you're doing, and thank you very much. When you say... relationships, I expect you as a very open representative and my colleague to tell you who has good connections in the VSTV, you don't need to replicate to me you can tell me later, who in the VSTV has good connections, from which political systems and which political parties they come from. That would be correct. I want to say to my Kolega, he accidentally said......I never thought in my life that I would replicate, don't get me wrong, you say you advocate the rule of law, that means the Constitution, and then don't say, you said, in one sentence you mentioned - in Republika Srpska and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Republika Srpska is part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and is not a parallel state. And that happens more and more often, even Minister Crnadk happened the other day in a statement. But I know that you are a legalist, that you believe in the laws, but it was, as a good, noble man and a good representative, an excellent representative, quite excessive, too much comment for Mr Bećirović, because I know that you are a man of good intentions and that you are not conflicting.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20907	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20908	I mean, I really said he had good connections. I could, so maybe in a certain way that would open up some other story a little bit, and if I said that I probably wouldn't be well protected from the state, and then my family wouldn't be well protected because I have a family and it's very dangerous to say, so in this country when you don't have a legal state. But if you realized that I said the phrase of a good relationship because Mr. Izetbegović told his wife that he would be a good manager, so I really didn't mean it at all. So if you're connected to it really, uh, you get it wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20909	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20910	Mr Ahmetović, I'm telling you again, this is non-compliance and the agenda and the correction of the wrong quote. Neither did anyone today mention Mr. Izetbegović, nor his wife, nor her apparent good management circumstances, but I tell you again – thank you for mentioning a member of the Presidency and president of my political party. I am very pleased that he lives in your memory and that you are actively thinking about him. But today, this item of agenda 93 really has nothing to do with President Izetbegović, but I'm used to you as very open, first of all I'm surprised that you're afraid for the safety of your family, I have a family, too, but I know that Mr. Tegeltija absolutely doesn't have, and nothing bad has come from my discussion today and it's not my discussion on care.../ difficult to understand, turned away from the microphone/... referred to. And he... the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And when you mention good relationships, say which of them has good connections,...the political sponsor, be correct towards them, do not... put me and Mrs. Gasal and the other colleagues. I haven't told you anything, and thank you for swearing on the president of your party this morning, that's nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20911	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20912	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, as my colleague Ahmetović said, so I thought several times today, I didn't sign up, whether to speak or not because, uh, Mr. Tegeltija said that we're talking about the VSTV report, and that's exactly how it is. A part of us went further and I'd be sorry if I didn't say something about it, but I think it'll have... and with VSTV. But I can't say this time, even though I'm going to stay unfinished and leave it for discussion some other time, it seems to me, therefore, that by intervening in different kinds of laws, when it comes to the criminal provisions of any law, we're getting a little bit into a sphere of fear spreading. It seems to me that those, those parties and political options that have a large number of people in important positions are using such provisions to spread fear through them. On several occasions only a few occasions in this House were specific, they spoke of some criminal acts and reported them publicly here, but were dissatisfied with the outcome of these, therefore, solutions supported by prosecutors and judges. Well, someone said these days, so we'd just be satisfied with the situation if whoever we're alluding to had been prosecuted, then probably the work of the judiciary and the prosecution would have been good. I don't defend myself, to understand, not the judiciary, not the prosecution, but we seem to be getting a little bit into one zone, so I don't know if it's going to be a big word, to say police states, spreading fear, therefore, resisting others, accusing and not allowing institutions to do their job. It's very dangerous. Mr. Bosić said that we are all unique, perhaps it is, and perhaps not, depending on how we look, so what we want from the prosecution or the judiciary when we discuss them. I'd just like to mention a few things here that have to do with the backlogs, which I might say a little bit more when there's a safety report. Namely, you're just talking numerically about these items that are left behind and getting rid of themselves, more or less being done in some years, 2015, 2016, but I'd like to see from you, from the Prosecutor's Office, of course I said this isn't the prosecutor's report, so not all the other items are the same. Some have generated many problems in this country, for example The murder of Hrvat returnees in Travnik and police officer and Mr. Leutar. So, they're not ordinary objects, they're not objects that someone stole 100,000 marks and he's a backlog, or I don't know any criminal proceedings, or I don't want to banalize things now. So, I'd like you to do a review of that in your report, both you and the D.A., which means, which means their non-resolvement, or the security situation, but I'll have time to talk to you tomorrow if we don't continue today's session. So, I'd like to see that kind of analysis of what old things are, why they're lagging behind, what about them, where, what problems they've caused, etc., etc. I hope that in some of the following reports you might appreciate what I'm saying. 94 And finally, in order not to take a replica of myself, i.e. the correction of an incorrect allegation, I would just say to my colleague Maji Maji-Gasal-Vražalica, so when she mentioned the affirmative HDZ that we are, therefore, proposing more competent people to all the positions that belong to us than the Croatian positions to which they propose their legitimate representatives of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20913	Thank you. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20914	About your legitimacy and competence we can, here, see for ourselves in these three years. You have received your legitimate, as you like to call it, a member of the presidency, since its legitimate representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is becoming less and less Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are already in the European Union, running away with their heads, regardless of their lack of perspective, because even HDZ BiH has given Bus Lake Repbuli to Croatia that they are not using, that they pay absolutely nothing, and not that there is prosperity in these municipalities and Canton 10 to make people work and live in their homes, their own breasts, as you like to say. So we all see what the result is when the legitimate, alleged, legitimately elected Hrvat, or members of the HDZ represent Bosnia and Herzegovina both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and outside Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20915	Thank you very much. We just didn't understand what the correction was about with respect to my colleague Lovrinović. We have, Agent Nikola Lovrinović, a correction to the wrong allegations, so please do not all abuse in general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20916	So, of course, correcting the incorrect allegations of Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. So, he had her legitimate representative for eight years to improve the position of the Croatian people and even as head of the Novo Sarajevo Municipality, so we see where we have problems today, and when it comes to the Filipović family and when it comes to... the Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, then, he could've fixed it when ours didn't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20917	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20918	Madam Chairman, when you need to discuss and comment on the Rules of Procedure, you need to go out for a pay phone. Now you have said in multitude: We have not understood you; you have been able to say it in your own name. We understand perfectly what the message of Maja 95, Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, said, and do not speak for yourself that it is the opinion of all of us. So, when you need to replicate the Rules of Procedure and do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20919	Thank you very much. Sir, Your Honor, Commissioner Bećirović, but I have the right to say in the name of the College, because everything I do here, I speak for the College, and I, as far as I know, are the three of us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20920	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20921	It's a plural anyway, and it's a plural, and two is not one. Thank you very much. Željko Komšić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20922	Dear Mr. Lovrinović, I called and I just got up to say I'm gonna take out all the nonsense you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20923	Thank you. Agent Nikola Špiri, hearing. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20924	Gentlemen preside over, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, representatives and chairman of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. I almost wanted not to answer the debate but I just want to say – today this debate reflects the overall situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever closely monitors today's debate can see, as in all other things in this country, that there are three diametrically opposing visions, not only of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, but of all other institutions, and the task should be for Parliament to work on a single vision and offer something better. The laws on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office have been passed by the international community. So there are projects in this country that have tried their best to implement them. Today's debate is that we actually have a diametric opposite of looking at the work of these institutions. Whose task is it to work on a political approach...? Parliament. I didn't hear anyone talk about the report today, they all came with their impressions picked up from public change and political parties. I didn't see people do what the report says, so let's say, here's the question of outdated items. It would be very good, so I'm not accusing you of knowing what the financial weight of these statutes is. It's the state's interest. I am afraid that a Parliament that deals a lot with parliamentary issues and the formation of investigative committees sees itself as a court, prosecutor's office, police agencies, I don't know what kind of misery. So when this Parliament is at the height of the tasks and challenges facing this country will be a better situation, be sure, both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. We probably won't be sitting here then and there'll be new generations in those institutions. But without a unique attitude that we will not come to in this way, today the MPs have irrevocably addressed each other, and on the agenda is the report on the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. I just want to warn you that today, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I have seen three today, and that is the most remarkable, that the Parliament that should be paying attention offers three visions. In three visions there is no state, there is the defeat of Parliament and state, that I do not speak of other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20925	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Security of BiH, number: 01,02-04-2207/17, since 12.09.2017. At the 55th session held on 19 September 2017, the House College appointed the Joint Defence and Security Commission as responsible for considering the Report. The committee responsible provided an opinion on the Information. The commission received knowledge of the Information. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20927	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20928	The Minister of Security. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20929	I thank the chairman. Honorable members of the College, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen. This is regular, let me put it this way, the BiH Ministry of Security's activity to meet once a year the BiH Parliament on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but with one specificity that we are entering and presenting information here, not only are the institutions and agencies responsible for implementing the law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we are obtaining data from all the agencies that implement the law, above all I mean security agencies that implement the law, and we are sublime that as far as possible, given the compatibility of all these data and the way in which these data are guided and compiled into one information, so that we are delivering to you here at the introduction. So, one information that makes up one complete, and looks at a complete security situation here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the introduction itself, I hope that the information was delivered to each MP individually, so he could make an insight into all these indicators and benchmarks related to the state of security. I would like to make only one general assessment, which is that one general or general state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina is somewhere at the level of last, even in previous years. When I say this in general, one general state, when all these data and indicators are sublimed, especially in terms of the execution of the total number of crimes, then it can be seen, perhaps 97 could be given a specific assessment, because it is done by 6.3% of less reported crimes compared to 2015. And just looking at that, only this statistical data might be able to get one false picture of the overall state of security, it is necessary to see it further through indicators from various spheres of security, so that through the question of terrorism, radicalism, extremism, such a question of general crime, crime against life and the body, against dignity of personality and morals, etc., that I don't list it. And why am I saying that? I say so, when we look at the general state of 6.3% or even when we enter one sphere, one area of security, say crimes against personality, morality and dignity, then we can see that this is about some general reduction in the total number of crimes. So when we look at the crimes of rape, we can find that it's less than 11%, but from that group of crimes against child abuse in pornography, pornographic purposes, and even abuse of children for sexual exploitation, then we'll see that there's 10.15 percent increase, so we can't look at all this simply through one general indicator of the overall reduction of the total number of crimes and we're talking about one trend in the fall of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One more example to point out, if we talk about criminal acts of robbery, acts of violence, etc., we will see that the total number of crimes of robbery has been reduced, but at the same time the total number of criminal acts of robbery has been increased, that is, by the use of weapons, forces or other means of committing this crime. So, it's hard to give one general assessment of a general qualification if you say the situation is satisfactory, because the total number of crimes committed and reported is generally lower by 6.3%, and especially if... the fact that always along with certain groups of crime or crime, you have so-called. It's a dark number. Look, we can say when it comes to corruption, let's say, and corruption, we've increased by 10, 15% the number of crimes in the area of corruption, but in fact we can't assume what the right number of corruption crimes is because there's always one number of undiscovered crimes, and that's what they're talking about. Dark numbers. I think that the problem of corruption, economic crime, financial crime and money laundering is significantly greater than what has been discovered, or what is affected by the work of law enforcement agencies. And that's, let me put it this way, one general perception. Perhaps if I were to single out just, here, a few topics here that I would talk about, I would especially point out radicalism, violent extremism and terrorism. So, while we can conclude that for two years we have not had terrorist, terrorist acts in the field of terrorism, so terrorist attacks, or serious terrorist incidents, we cannot say that we have eliminated terrorism as a threat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since there is a problem of radicalism and violent extremism within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that this manifests itself in the concrete activities of our citizens' going to war in the form of various paramilitary, paralytic, and also terrorist organisations. We now have about 115 of our citizens still in Syria and Iraq as part of the Al-Nusra terrorist organisation, we have four of our citizens who are in, or were in, Ukraine. And we hope now that after the fall of this Islamic state in Syria and Iraq, which, therefore, through one of these global anti-terrorist coalitions has been defeated, we will get practically to a large mine of information, various evidence of the participation and of our crowds down there in this terrorist organization, which will serve us here to further document these crimes. We are also paying great attention to the area of terrorism prevention segment. For the first time, we are now entering some major projects, one regional character project of 18 million, whose financial value is 18 million euros, another through USAID, which is funding us with 16 million dollars and we will focus exclusively on communities where there are 98 radicalism, where there is violent extremism, through one general prevention and resociation of these young people and the deterring of young people, especially teenagers, to accept this radicalism. Also for the first time now in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have a situation that we will start with a certain type of project to resociate persons who are being held in a holding cell for any kind of terrorist act. I just wanted to say one more fact that since 2013, globally, I say, 123 terrorist attacks have been carried out in the world in 27 total countries, that in these terrorist attacks I'm going to get killed right away, I'm going to finish it fast, 1,043 people, but that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in any way connected to these terrorist attacks, nor were there any participation of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in these attacks. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, when we go, here's only if we can do very briefly, through these other security segments we will see that in terms of detecting drug abuse crimes, there has been an increase in the total number of criminal acts of 11.77%, which does not mean that there has been an increase in total traffic and drug abuse, but in some ways this problem is better and more affected during 2016, with one problem again – we do not have large bosses. These are mostly small quantities, street dealers, etc. As for, I said, terrorist attacks are such a situation, criminal acts of money laundering, corruption and corruption, it's all about a fall, but I think it's one situation, one condition that is not seriously affected by this problem either by judicial institutions or by security institutions. And, here, not to delay, I don't take much time, I prefer to answer your questions, so a total of 6.3% drop, but I think when it's divided that we have works that are by way of execution and by social danger far away, a rise in the number of crimes, and that they are socially more dangerous and more harmful than I am this percentage of the reduction of easier crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20930	Thank you, Minister. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20931	You see, it means the fall of crimes, and I'm glad the minister rightly concluded because you can't convince the citizens that it's a better security situation, so that this statistical decline doesn't mean anything, given whether, on the increase of these, to say, more dangerous or more serious crimes. In any case, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is worse when it comes to security. I think that's the conclusion. I am only here now interested in whether Minister Mektić accepts his responsibility and whether, let's say, I can speak for the territory of the Federation, the interior minister here accepts his responsibility, or whether any of these authorities have any responsibility for, which is evident, a worse security situation this year than the previous one, and can even be said all the previous ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20932	Thank you. 99 Before the next MP gets the word just to let you know – how we planned to work until 18 or 19, this one, we reported that we could not arrive at our obligations that we had in the European Commission, so we continue the session. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20933	I would only ask my colleague Arnaut when he says so taxingly that the interior minister in Canton of Sarajevo is also from his party, so that he also seeks a certain responsibility with the minister for the capital.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20934	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20935	Here, for years, I've been trying to get some of the silliness and essence out of the reports that are coming to us, but I have now begun to find out where it is, where it comes from, where it comes from to deliver these reports to the Parliamentary Assembly, and what it is supposed to serve, because the information itself is somewhere that it is made up in accordance with obligations and powers, where it comes from. Of Niodakle, there's not a single legal document that says a document like this should be done. There is, once again, we have asked the Council of Ministers to deliver occasionally to the Parliamentary Assembly that we know what it refers to, but this was meant by those institutions that are administrative organisations within the Ministry of Security. Then how did we get this information? By taking a report from the Ministry of Security from the Ministry of Security from the MUP, a report from the cantonal interior ministries responsible for these affairs and submitted as a report to the Federal Ministry and reports sent by administrative organisations from the Ministry of Security as information. And then we got one scalpel from which we don't know what to do and how to get out of it. So there's no regulation by which it... works. If there's no regulation then there's no way she's supposed to look either essential or what she needs to provide. I find it completely incomplete that the Ministry of Security, as an institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is making information on issues beyond its constitutional jurisdiction. To comment that, and to raise doubts about certain reports made by entity MUPs, or cantonal MUPs, is not correct, because the one who worked is responsible for this information and this information has been adopted by parliaments in accordance with their respective competences. Secondly, what I would find unacceptable, that the Ministry of Security must know that Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative authority cannot change the legislative framework for what is not its jurisdiction, and it suggests in its report that it is necessary to amend the laws in order to give more rights and more jurisdiction to the Ministry of Security, which is otherwise known to have no specific jurisdiction. With this information, the Ministry of Security is trying to place itself above other police and security institutions and is asking for priorities to be set for strengthening the law, and it is also known that all the priorities of the Republika Srpska Ministry of Interior are being established in the Republika Srpska government, and that is binding, there is no obligation to the BiH Ministry of Security. Calling for better co-operation mechanisms between the police and the prosecution as a mechanism through which the Ministry of Security could collect data from police bodies is completely unfounded. The Department of Security is not a police body. 100 Also on the page, it seems to me, 5 and 26 are mentioned that, according to the information available to police agencies and the Police Body Coordination Directorate, there was not a single terrorist attack in 2016. The fact is, but I wonder why the Police Body Coordination Directorate has the authority to have any authority in the fight against terrorism. In one part of the information relating to the area of terrorism and the planning of the next steps, it is said that there is a need to improve the legal and institutional framework, which suggests that the Law on the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be amended, not so, to police agencies, which is not realistic and it would not be good to do so as another attempt to transfer competence. But it's surprising. Just one more thing, it is surprising that the information in the terrorism section is nowhere to mention activities to combat terrorism and strengthen, it is what it is called, a counterterrorism group that, the Strike Group, or the Operational Group. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And it would be interesting for the minister to explain how it is possible for the task force to meet Every day, how it came to fall apart because those institutions, or security agencies that are prone to ministers, do not come to these meetings, and these others come. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, that's very interesting why there's no SIPA, OBA and this Foreign Affairs Service, and here come the entity MUPs, the Direct Taxation Authority and others. That's really interesting to hear. So, I've tried a few things to trouble, there's a lot of things. Mostly respected ministers, please keep an eye on the...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20936	I apologize to the MPs, warn the MPs not to leave the session without reporting. Please read Article 7(4) if you do not know. Go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20937	So, I'm finishing up, just to keep in mind what the Ministry of Security's jurisdiction is and not go outside that circle.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20938	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20939	I just want to tell you where we got the information on the state of security, dear colleague Ahmetović will remember that better. On 5 June 2012, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of the Parliamentary Assembly returned the Ministry of Security to the Information on the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011, seeking full information on the state of security that would include the state of crime. The chairman of the Commission, Dušanka Majkić, estimated that the security situation should not be observed in part, segment by segment, but integratedly, Bosnia and Herzegovina faces a large number of security challenges and we owe citizens information on the state of security. On June 7th, SNSD MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Dušanka Majkić said during a debate on this Information on the state of crime that it was a document in which the Ministry of Security only presented the MUP statistics, and that the report cannot give an assessment of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, the Parliamentary Assembly has adopted 101 reports on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this year the Information on the state of crime. I suggest that the Ministry of Security draws up comprehensive information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20940	Thank you Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20941	...I also want to, uh, correct the assumption that this is something different now than it used to be. I've been through, and I'm not like a colleague of Aleksandar's, and I've had a little bit of a look at some reports before, because I've also got this letter from the Ministry, which you've got here and you've read some of the pieces from him, and I've got it, so I first found out that the Ministry isn't necessarily delivering, like now. They didn't protest what they were delivering before, but now that this minister is, for the record, if it were a little different now, if it weren't for this minister, it wouldn't be a problem. It's the same reports for years, so the same reports, and you've always supported them, and your minister never wrote what he just wrote, ever. And let me tell you something else, your minister is lying to you, writing us letters, and sitting down with Mektić and the others and agreements, which is natural and normal to negotiate co-operation because they have to reveal the dangerous crimes that are being reported. And that's what people do regularly, they have regular meetings. Well, then they write you and us a letter that we then present here at Parliament and argue with each other. Absolutely unnecessary, colleague, no reason at all. So, a typical report that has been coming to this Parliament for years, a sublimated set. If the Ministry didn't think we shouldn't have even delivered the report, so to speak – we don't want to deliver the report and the finished thing, it would be different. People delivered the Report, and they said, "We are not required." Well, of course you're not required, but you delivered. I mean, you don't need to, I got that letter, I read it a few times, I got some findings there and I laughed, I got to be honest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20942	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20943	I thank the chairman. counterparts Bećirović, as well as Mr. Džaferović, since he threw without a microphone expressing his consent with Mr. Bećirović, which is absolutely not strange. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Damir Bećirović, of course, is talking about tandem to this, so it should have been clear. The security situation in Canton Sarajevo, if you remember correctly when you are talking about SBB Minister 102, has just asked the SBB minister for a change in former commissioner, Vahid Ćosić after a million failures he has made in terms of the security situation in Canton Sarajevo, and then everything culminated, whether, by his hanging driving, etc., and it is undisputed that the security situation in Canton of Sarajevo has been corrected as a result of these and such actions. Canton of Sarajevo was also the first to implement international standards in close co-operation with OHR, which OHR representatives sitting here can very clearly confirm, international standard on the separation of the interior ministry's budget and the police administration and the UN-San canton then copied it. This still needs to be done at the level of the Federation of BiH, especially at the level of Tuzlan Canton where the Interior Minister there, led by an example of his predecessor, whom you, Mr Damir Bećirović, know very well, talk about this predecessor, led by Mr Bego Gutić, an ex-cop, resisting OHR's efforts to implement these international standards, to separate the MUP budget from the police administration's budget. And since you already want to talk about individual cantonal levels, although this is the state Parliament, I was going to stay at higher levels, when You already want to talk about cantonal levels, here are these examples. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20945	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20946	So, what I once claimed, what I'm saying, and now that the Ministry of Security has been treated almost always as a ministry without any jurisdiction, and so it's rare for anyone to kidnap for it. Now we have a case that we have an ambitious minister who doesn't see where the border is, but thinks it's all his jurisdiction. And that's why this review has to be different. Therefore, the risk of transfer of jurisdiction is also evident through this Report. If the minister gets information from the site, then you can see how much that information is worth. Secondly, it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20947	Dear MPs whose claim you're correcting?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20948	Well, whoever was commenting on me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20949	Say, call in whose quote you're correcting.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20950	Well, Mr. Novaković commented, I guess you heard that, I don't have to repeat that...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20951	You should specify, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you must refer to which it refers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20952	To Mr. Novaković. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20953	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20954	So it's the danger that is now, which has never been before. No security minister has been problematic on this basis except for this present one, and therefore relations to reports and information, no matter what... it will be different. And today we don't know the issue of individual management organisations in the department of security as it is. The directors of the agencies used to come to these meetings and say, "Today speaks the Minister of Security." As he says, it is not seriously affected by the issues of the competent authorities, the level of government, so I can say that its interpretations do not mean that what the administrative organisations really think and do is covered.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20955	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20956	A guilty quote by counterpart Majkić, which is that from the report, the minister concluded that there is a possibility that the minister was referring to the transfer of jurisdiction. It's like, like a colleague here, whom I'm not going to name, said it acts preventively so that someone doesn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. So here, too, the minister and colleague act preventively so that the minister does not propose some law to carry out the transfer of competence. Look, please, when you read that sentence, you really can't get what you said anywhere, or what you read what the minister said. You really can't, here I've tried to see and, of course, you can, of course you can, you can do everything, but it doesn't make sense, it doesn't go that way at all, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20957	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20958	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have information on the state of security before us and she is who she is. The safety of citizens is not a matter of statistics, but of individual feelings, whether they feel safe or not. For years we've had a similar situation, sometimes a little more criminal acts, sometimes a little less, but in any case every year, here's what we're looking at. Security information, and especially when there's more serious crimes than we've ever had in the past. However, I would refer to several internal security challenges that I believe are not explicitly mentioned here or are not mentioned at all. First of all, I would say that at point 9, as a number of environmental challenges and problems related to systemic corruption, I think this is a clumsy name of the internal security challenge, because we have also had problems with the Commission for Defence and Security, if it wasn't a very good name, it might be a little longer, because systemic corruption would actually have to be as one special point, as a security challenge. I'm not saying this for no reason, here's what we're witnessing is that from month to month the excise duty on tobacco and tobacco 104 reprocessing is dropping, and we have a situation where cigarette prices are rising. What's going on is whether smoking fell in Bosnia and Herzegovina or if it's some kind of smuggling. So someone in the system is doing something. The second thing, the excise tax on coffee also falls drastically, and we all know that coffee is definitely not less, if you don't drink anymore, which means that something doesn't work right in the system. Second question, cybercrime. We are witnessing that especially social networks and unregulated space when it comes to the Internet and public space, publishing what anyone wants and whatever they feel, I think it leads to serious disturbances in Bosnia and Herzegovina's security system for the reason that, here, and we are responsible for that because we haven't properly arranged it, but certainly the Ministry of Security should record it as a special internal security challenge and be our task to all of us in the next period. Why am I saying this? Just look at the comments on the portals on any publication, depending on which portal publishes or which public figure is the subject of publication, the opposite side, it is an incredible outflow of frustration of individuals on these portals. I think we should get this done as soon as possible. The next internal, the internal challenge should certainly be to incriminating convicted persons in the KP institutions. That's one big problem that I think we're not taking enough care of, because not to say that these are potential security threats to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it certainly deserves special attention, here we are as responsible persons. The returnees of the war zones, not enough, are under-worked this topic in this Information, because it seems to me to be one of the biggest security challenges Bosnia and Herzegovina has. Then the Ravnagorski movement, not listed here at all, and it seems to me that it is, at the very least, the fear of a certain number of residents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and should therefore be cited as a special security challenge. Someone mentioned here and Canton Sarajevo, we had an elaborate on the Defence and Security Committee. Why? Because in Canton of Sarajevo, the largest number of vehicles is actually stolen annually, even more than in Republika Srpska. Why? That's why precisely because of the problems my predecessors have been talking about, insufficient co-operation between police agencies, insufficient rapid reaction, rapid action, proximity to the entity line, etc., means, and even banning the co-operation of certain police agencies that are next to each other in terms of jurisdiction, but obviously it's a big problem for us. And that's why this finding of bad co-ordination of police agencies is actually one sure security challenge. One of the regional security challenges is certainly a multitude of unresolved difficult political problems that burden our relations. You have seen, here are the witnesses, as much as we have burdened relations with the Republic of Croatia, I will not speak to the Republic of Serbia, not to talk about the disposal of radioactive waste, on unresolved property issues, about the crowd, means those things that actually when the president next door gives us any statement, it reflects on the security of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I think you should add these, some of these challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20959	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20960	Mr. Novaković again. I doubt that Mr. Novaković received anything from the information he needs to understand the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, I must say that I understand his agreement with this Information because it is obliged to adhere to the political agreement and its obligations to the Alliance for Change. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20961	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20962	Well, this report, as well as the one from the previous point we had here, shows positive trends. The VSTV report, looking at statisticalally, had all sorts of positive trends, and we talked here about this situation as we talked about. We have trends like this here, and I've read these five pages of terrorism somewhere more carefully than the rest of this report. Well, there we have, I'd say, as it says in this report, the situation under control, so here's better than in 2015. It seems to me like that weather forecast on our phones, you know, it says that the temperature is 15 degrees outside, but it's blowing the wind, so you feel like it's three degrees. Well, that's how I feel in that report. It's a positive trend, but I don't feel. And one interesting thing, I'll focus on page 33, there's one table, and the other tables are like that. From this table you would estimate that the situation in the Federation as regards economic and financial crime is far better than in Republika Srpska, and it is not, because simply in this Report there is one important segment, in the Federation you have county, cantonal MUPs, which are a significant segment of the security situation, and apparently throughout this report their parameters are not processed and they are missing, and they would give significantly different results. And on page 33, maybe another one, it's a little bit important to you all, but I'll read it, it's important to me. During 2016 SIPA conducted 13 operational actions aimed at preventing these crimes, and listed the names of these actions : Listica, Koral, Duvan, Kurir, Karmen, Ringishpill, Block, Urban, Charlie, Box, List 2, Rampa and Milligram. 12 completely neutral names, one real... A leaf, which is my water, not just my water, four men sitting in this House drinking that water, now the three of us are here, is there one missing. And when 12 neutral names could have been invented, this List could have been called “water”, tell the ministers to the people of SIPA, because we are tired of being from the List, for 50 years we have been in the gray zone, and now we will have a business that could be called “Block 2”, called Lištica, and 12 is neutral. Now, that bothers me, it's a detail, but it bothers me, so I wanted to warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20963	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20964	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I wouldn't discuss this report, but given the course of today's session, the ways of discussion, the characters of discussion, I would suggest that you stay at that provobital position, that we end up with this point of today's session and that or we do tomorrow morning continue, it is different, however, the morning is smarter than the night, or that we continue this session in some time in which you propose, which may be the first follow-up when that session is scheduled, the 15th, and then we continue with the regular session. And these, we have three other points that will cause a lot of discussion to be burdened with many other things, not essentially to achieve what needs to be done, actually do this Parliament. 106 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20965	Now, just a little, one attitude, I think I've managed to tell you. We really tried to find space in the College to continue this session, we couldn't. We had a college yesterday, the entire 11th month was planned, taking into account both international and activities within the Parliamentary Assembly with two sessions. We, as House Speakers tomorrow, should be in Hungary's Parliament with the Presidents of the Parliaments of the European, Euroregion. We're sorry we couldn't find it, so we keep working. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20966	It's a very short time to elaborate information on the state of security and, of course, its contents. But to be able to talk about it at all and what it is to transfer jurisdiction, whether or not it has it. Mr. Minister, don't let anyone please have it, but there's a drug transfer all over the place. It can, and it's in entity jurisdiction and drugs if it flies and poisons our youth in a frenzy, it can. Also, don't take responsibility in any sleep, but that's why we have weapons transport left and right, on one side, on the other side, which is certainly familiar to you, because in Sarajevo it's worth this, I'll tell you – if you need a gun, come, it says, at a gas station on Dobrinj, the one from Lukavica will come, in these words. It works very well and there's a transmission there. We don't need to transfer jurisdiction, but we can get this transmission. It's in my vivid memory of defending one doctoral work, so this wouldn't be a joke, whose mentor was academic Boris Tihi. That defense was a long way off in '85, and I can only tell who it was because it was catalysed. These aren't today's doctoral work. You can find it in the Paris National Library. At that time, this doctorate told his mentors, interestingly, one of them was from Sarajevo in his commission, one from Zagreb, one from Belgrade, said – because you have torn up all these responsibilities in this country will have a great bloodshed. Those words, that boy at the time, on the defense of doctoral work from the economy, were about tearing up economic space, he told them. Recently, a young man defended the Master's work "Aspects of Narcotics", and I objected to that defense, and I must tell you that I am amazed at what I heard on that defense. If that's how it is, and obviously none of our people use it, these young people, if that's the case, then we can expect very soon, in addition to our quality youth leaving, that other part of us to lose through all the more mass use, but what's the worst, heavy drugs. And let's not transfer jurisdiction, we don't need it, because we're about to break down the basics of our family. I support your work and you are not the Capa Agency, or those and those who do, you are the one who directs, these are the big differences and you can not be a dry gatherer of information, but an analyser and one who will direct further action or reaction of those whose responsibility it is. We've mixed pears and apples and we want to have a minister of security who has no right to say. Good for us. It's the same as the finance minister, here's your colleague over there, who doesn't have the right to say that... streams don't work, or there's no right to say that in such and such arrangement you should go, because you know we've shared everything, everything. So we have a river of Bosnia that owns two water companies, which is just amazing, or we have a river called Una, owned by two water companies and so on. Woe to us with us, it's a Montenegrin proverb, with ourselves, because we ourselves... _________(?) 107 [[no microphone turned on]] Neretva three, yes. It's hard for us to come with us, because until we realize that crime doesn't have any entity, Not cantonal, but it has a state and global incentive [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're not going out, it's also about financial crimes, so we understand each other right away. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm going to give you examples now, I'm ending up, one sentence, please, one only, as money obtained in the Republika Srpska mass Placer in Sarajevo, do you know about it? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Look who's the dominant construction contractor in Sarajevo, just ask around. And how is it possible that he can from the objects in advance? to get like that building 30% take in an object, and so on? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20968	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20969	I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20970	Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20971	It's for you. I, therefore, cannot agree at all with the assumption that it is impossible to organise another session in the next month and this is a really good opportunity to repeat something that I repeatedly pointed out here in the Parament, that the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia met 108 times in the past year, that the Serbian Parliament had 106 sessions last year and that this...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20972	Representative, I warn you, I did not state the claim that you can correct under the agenda, I put it on the proposal of the representative who sought and addressed it in a way that I have stated what the position of the College is and we know well what our Rules of Procedure is, how we do. So please, if you have something in terms of it, you can, you have the right to suggest that we interrupt, we can hold a session on the day that it is, we can move, but don't say that you're correcting the wrong allegations and you're talking. We will continue to work as a College, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, regardless of how the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia or the National Assembly of Serbia works.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20973	First thing, come on, please consult the Rules of Procedure. If you want to take it easy, I already told you in the last session this, the Rules of Procedure says you need to go upstairs for a pay phone and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20974	I run a session and manage a session and take care of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't go out to talk about someone's allegations. 108
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20975	You only manage the tenth, eleventh session this year and you say there's no way another one can be held in the next month. That's a false allegation, that absolutely doesn't stand. On behalf of the club, with the approval of the club chief, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20976	I'm giving a half-hour break at the SBB's request. Please, can we go? I'm asking the SBB Club to explain the reasons for asking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20978	The Honorable Madam Chairman. We have analyzed the work we have done today at the session and what awaits us, and now, on behalf of the Club, we propose that, with this point 8, when the discussion is over, to end the work of the House of Representatives and to schedule it, if nothing else, the 15th to continue, and if we are to do 15th and 16th, I don't think it's any problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20979	Thank you. We have a debate, are we gonna finish this point or are we gonna... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I understand, that's why I'm asking. We've got two MPs on this agenda point, so will we all say after that whether we're going to interrupt the session or not? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20981	They've got two more points.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20982	Please, please, you want us to put right away, so there's no controversy, to vote on who's for the session to end so we can continue sometime when there's a second session, because we can't determine now. Would you please let us know who's in favor of stopping the session? 109 I call upon you to plead. Total presence 39 — for 14... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, honourable MPs, the request for a re-election can be expressed by the time we have found that..., but this time we will repeat the vote. Don't roll your eyes that's rude. Please repeat the vote. Of the 39 present, for 13, against 17, abstentions 9. I'm konstatirati there's no general majority of this. We're moving on with the session. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20985	After consulting with the Club and a joint agreement, I'm looking for a 30-minute break on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20986	I'm taking a break at the SDP Club's request of 30 minutes. Resume session. I'm asking the SDP Club to explain the reasons for asking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20988	I thank the Honorable Chairman. We have held consultations and after the consultations have been carried out, we want to say that there are very important points of the agenda in front of us, and that it would be good, given our dynamics that are smaller than any national parliament in Europe, that we prepare these points in the most serious way possible and we discuss them. That's what I suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20989	Thank you. 110 Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20990	Well, here, I'm suggested by the president of the club three sentences. Really, uh, I'm not gonna say anything about the state of security that we're working at, but since you're sitting up there, you're smarter than me because you're worse, uh... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I guess...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20992	Please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20993	But I suggest to you that in the future you plan at least two days, so, when it comes to the session, we have a reservation for tomorrow, and that we can hold a proper session. So, I think this Parliament, and you, too, should be the number one priority of holding sessions and for the dignity of this House. So it would be good, here, to plan futures, so, the next day, eventually, if we get into a situation like this so we can work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20994	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20995	Thank you, Chairman. Using a business opportunity, I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20996	I'm giving a half-hour break at the request of the SSD Club. We're moving on with the session. I'm asking the SNSD club to explain the reasons for the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20998	I don't think there's any need to say anything special here. We had the necessary consultations, given the fact that there are definitely representatives of the MPs' clubs and MPs who asked 111 to interrupt the session and make an appointment for another appointment, whether it's tomorrow or 15 when it's scheduled. I ask you to reconsider this possibility and interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u20999	Thank you. Let's move on with the session. We have spoken about the continuation of the session and it has been stated by the House, so, please, I will now conclude, because we have had the session of the College, all of these breaks that have been sought, regardless of the right of business that belongs to each club, obviously it is not about the abuses of the Rules of Procedure, that the pause is required for some consultations, because we do not actually have anything but, in some way, obstruct Parliament's work. But, of course, every MP, every club on, uh, what they say, cheek, and the whole House on what we're doing tonight. Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21000	The Honorable Chairman. I, or any of my colleagues from the SNSD Club, have never commented on the mood and attitude in your club and whether or not you discussed anything. I don't know where you got the information that we didn't have a certain kind of consultation. And I'm asking you to stop doing that practice because you don't need to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21001	Thank you. Please, debate, MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21002	I'll repeat, uh, according to the Rules of Procedure that we're looking for a half-hour break, because this is not abuse, but abuse of what you're doing, to say that you can't find an appointment within the next month to do it the right way and prepare it. We don't see anyone from the Council of Ministers here, nobody sits, I don't know, there are no conditions for holding a session further.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21003	Please, first of all, it doesn't matter. So, we've put the SBB's proposal on a plea to this House. This House has democratically decided to continue the session. Please, let's be serious. At this point, I'm taking a break at the DF Club's request for half an hour. We have a quorum, we can continue. May I have your attention, please? I'm asking the DF Club to explain to us the reasons for asking for a break. Here you go. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21005	Here, until the colleagues come in. Here, we are convinced that for future points that someone needs to be present, if you can secure order in the O.R. please, I'm sure it's necessary to have someone here from the Council of Ministers. Also, in order not to express any doubts, we have, here, held a consultation meeting, and we are handing you the minutes from the consultation meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21006	We don't need a record in the Rules of Procedure. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21007	Thank you very much. Really, I'm worried, uh, the way we work and where you're taking this story tonight, given the time we're working and the importance of the points behind it. I'm asking for a half-hour break, and in the meantime, to deliver the Parliamentary Assembly's regulation on international relations to the tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21008	Please can I just get the word for a little bit?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21009	Here you go, buddy. Deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21010	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This really doesn't make any sense. Parliament has decided to continue the session, i.e. the SBB Club's proposal to postpone the session is not accepted. After that came the breaks, these which are obviously abuses of the right to rest, I see it that way. In order to end this situation, I would like to ask the chairman, I now suggest that the House vote now again and make a decision whether we're going to work tonight or not. As a College, we do not have the right, once Parliament has decided to continue the session, to decide for ourselves. And please, if you think we shouldn't work, vote, if we have to work, vote, and how you decide, that's how it's gonna be. That's it, thank you. I'm proposing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21011	Thank you. I give a half-hour break at the request of Sadik Ahmetović, or the Independent Club. We're moving on with the session. I'd like a colleague of Sadik to explain to us the reasons for asking for a break. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21013	Thank you very much. I, among other things, asked MPs to be sent an act of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a regulation on international relations which clearly states that the priority of holding a session is to any other priority, so... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21014	Please have consideration for your colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21015	and travel that are possibly planned. Due to the conditions in which we are working tonight, because of what is going on here, because of the lack of presence and the Council of Ministers, I suggest we maintain the dignity of this House, to respect the acts in force in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and also your act of the College, where you speak about the priorities of holding meetings in relation to any trip, I suggest we vote to continue the session tomorrow. So, I suggest we vote on it and continue the session or continue to work tomorrow of 10... Thank you very much. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21016	Just to let you know. As far as priorities are concerned, so the College has made a proposal for a calendar of activities according to the Rules of Procedure. The calendar of activities for holding sessions ultimately determines the College in an extended composition. This is for all the representatives and for all the club presidents who were here, everyone had the right to make their remarks on the Activity Calendar. We continue with the session, representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21017	I thank the chairman. Article 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure – The Club of Members shall have the right to request a break of up to 30 minutes for each point. The chairman of the House is immediately, I quote, he is obliged to take a break immediately if the vote has not begun. A moment ago, before this break, Mr Ahmetović asked for a break on behalf of the Club, and you, as the chairman of the House according to Article 83 (1), were obliged to take a break immediately. Instead, you gave the word to Mr. Džaferović. I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you read my business remarks, I ask that it enter the minutes, also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I really insist that, uh, you make a statement about this business remark, since the Rules of Procedure here are very clear, it is immediately a very strict provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21018	You don't have to insist, I'll say it anyway. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, you are right, and I have made an immediate request from the honourable representative to take a break, but as a colleague of the College, I also thought that 114 would make some kind of proposal to contribute to Parliament's work, as well as to protect dignity. And I did it for those reasons. I hope we understand each other. Damir Arnaut, is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21019	It is, again, Article 83 (1), I mean, one thing you think, the other is what the Rules of Procedure very clearly says. I really don't know how else to prove that "now" doesn't allow interpretation or thinking of what someone might have meant, the break is given immediately, and the word is given after the break is finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21020	I understand everything, and I hope you understand me, too, that your objection is justified and that the objection of business is in place. Do you need to do it again? I hope we understand each other. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21021	I know that each of the MPs has the right to elaborate in their own way, but Mr. Džaferović, I sit here quietly without a single word, who spoils or doesn't corrupt, or real or not real, I don't know, that you should know and should say and not address everyone. And secondly, Mrs. Krišto, it's true that it's an extended college, but the decision has been made by those who rule, you haven't fertilized us for one second. We asked that the sessions be more frequent, that the sessions be more intensive, that the sessions be held at least once a week, none of that is appreciated, none. So we Parliament are I think in Europe with the lowest number of sessions, and we are required to be effective. On the other hand, we're professionally tied up here, which means we should at least come to work in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21022	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21023	I thank the chairman. I just want to correct the false allegations of a distinguished colleague, Sadik Ahmetović, that there is no one here from the Council of Ministers. On our left very patiently until these late night hours sits the vice-presidential council of ministers, Mr. Bevanda. As far as we're concerned, we're in the mood to work, we can continue immediately until morning work, we don't have that problem. How much time we have lost here so far this session could end and end all discussions and discussions but it is quite clear that someone is making additional costs for Parliament's work of, I don't know what, 40-50 thousand just to have television cameras involved. Thank you. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21024	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21025	Well, the biggest cost for the state is your dissatisfaction and your travels that are more important than the work of this Parliament. Those are the biggest expenses for this country. And don't defend Mr. Jaferovic to the state... and violate the Rules of Procedure, neither of me nor of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21026	Don't talk to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21027	So, I, so come out and say it, don't tell me from the spot. I'm an MP who's been elected as well as you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21028	Don't, don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21029	Please, my colleague, and please, counsel for proper conduct.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21030	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21031	Please behave yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21032	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21033	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21034	Did Mr. Džaferović get his word?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21035	It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21036	Well, talk to...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21037	You have, I've told you... 116
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21038	Talk to him...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21039	Don't yell from the spot.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21040	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21041	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21042	And I'm an expert in speech.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21043	Come on, nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21044	Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21046	I went to school, I know what a speech is. I ask you to hold on to the dignity of this House. You have very important agenda points - a debate on a foreign minister who is not there, an initiative on NATO. There's a NATO team running the deputy foreign minister. There is a declaration by Mr. Bosic on the road to Sarajevo - Belgrade. So these are all important points of the agenda. Look what time it is, you see what condition we're in. I'm asking you to put on a vote proposal from the club to get...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21047	Your Honor, I warn you because you do not adhere to the agenda. We're at point 8, and that's the Security Information. At the same time, you're warning a colleague or me that I've violated business provisions, and you're also not following business provisions. This is not a debate on the agenda, but information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21048	I'm not talking about the agenda, I answered because Mrs. Pandurević talked about me personally and said...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21049	Correction of the wrong quote, you got a chance to say it. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21050	Well, you're interrupting me, I don't know why you're interrupting me. But I really don't know why you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21051	Really what this is, I wonder. Here, here, you have...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21052	I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21053	You don't need to, I lead, you don't need to ask me, I'm here and I want to run this session properly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21054	Just take her away.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21055	I'll read your respect, Article 77. – representatives or other participants in the debate may only speak in question in accordance with the established agenda. If the President warns him of the agenda, if he does not follow the agenda after that, the President of the House shall deny him the right to speak. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21056	Well, don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21057	Neither do I, and I speak in this situation as you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21058	Well, you see, I know what a speech is, so I realized...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21059	Well, you know, I respect that you know, that I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21060	You know more right, so here, I know this more, so I really know more.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21061	Did you follow the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21062	Well, can I, please don't be nervous, can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21063	Now, I'm denying you the right. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21064	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21065	Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21066	Well, my correction to the wrong allegation was sent to my esteemed colleague Pandurević. I would remind only of, here, the Act of the Presidency, the Secretariat of the Presidency that we received during the session, which is said to be very urgent. And again, I remind you of the presence of the sittings, which says in the act of the Secretary-General of the Presidency, it is about agreements on the agenda, that since the Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for implementing the agreement, the conclusion of this contract is authorized by the representatives of the ministry. So it's not Mr. Bevanda for that one. Another agreement, also authorised representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport, means there are none in the hall here either. No conditions have been met for the session to continue and the session should continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21067	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21068	Dear Mr Ahmetović, when you mention traveling, you must have a name and a last name, because you travel, no matter where you look, we too, and here there are MPs who haven't moved a inch from this hall, and some have traveled, for more than half a term we spent only on trips. And to be sadder I have footage of cocoa talking to strangers, the language, I was, you heard, we saw, we come, you go and so order, don't laugh, I have those videos. While those who speak fluent languages, not one at a time, have no chance of showing it at least once. That's one thing. Second, really more serious. I would ask you as a College not to play with this House's dignity, this has already gone to something that is at least very ugly. I don't want to be involved in something like this. No matter how much anyone observes, I seriously prepare myself for every session, read, not what you deliver to us, but about Bog knows how many more materials, books, data and so on, and I feel very ugly, because what should be said about Mr. Bosić's initiative is not just a path.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21069	You've come forward to correct the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21070	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21071	I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21072	Excuse me, please. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21073	I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Information on the type, number, intensity and cost of visiting BiH Minister of Foreign Affairs to other countries and the purpose of visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens – Proposer of the point: Representative Damir Arnaut, No: 01-50-1-2525/17, of 25.10.2017. We placed this item in the House's decision at today's session. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21075	I thank the chairman. Article 83(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, please, on behalf of the Club, I will first read – if the Club of Members requests a break of more than 30 minutes from the Chairman of the House, puts this proposal to a vote, on behalf of the Club of the SBB, with the approval of the Chief of the Club, to request a break of 11 hours. You have to put this to a vote right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21076	Don't wink, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21077	Well, it's not you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21078	I am warning all MPs that the man, the representative who is speaking now, is making fun of this Parliament. I'm bound to tell you that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21079	The chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21080	I'm obliged to tell you, I've seen you do it. And it's rude at least. And I'll put your motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21081	On behalf of the SBB Club, I'm asking for an 11-hour break in accordance with, so we can pick up tomorrow at 10. Article 83(3) you are obliged to put it to the vote immediately. I don't know if a fly got in my eye. ...hours... 120 [[doesn't understand, because at the same time he's talking to the chairman]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21082	I'll put you to the vote on your proposal, but I'll tell you right now on behalf of the College because of previous commitments and the established Activity Calendar, we cannot continue our unit tomorrow. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I warn you of Article 83 (4) – if the Chairman of the House for any reason assesses the purpose of giving a break he will at any time determine a break that cannot be longer than one hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21084	No break for more than an hour. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21085	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21086	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21088	If the Chairman of the House for any reason estimates that it is meaningful to give a break he will, or in this case she will, at any time, give a break that can't be longer than an hour. It is your privilege as chairman of the House to give a maximum break by one hour without any vote. As ordinary MPs, we may request a break for up to half an hour, but in the position (3) – if the MPs' club requests a break of more than 30 minutes, without any further restrictions on how long this break lasts, the chairman of the House puts this proposal to the vote. I here absolutely, in accordance with Article 83 of the Position (3), request a break of 11 hours. There is no restriction that exists in the position (4) as far as you can without a vote, and you are obliged to give here, put my proposal to the vote. So the Rules of Procedure are very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21089	Agent, you don't have to bother. If you listened to me very carefully, I said I would put your proposal to a vote, but I also said that regardless of the session tomorrow, it cannot be continued. I'm putting in a proposal from Attorney Damir Arnaut to take an 11-hour break. Of the 35 present — abstentions 17 (?For, uh, v. 18(?, the abstentioned have no(?). There's no general majority. 121 I find that the proposal has not received the necessary majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, please, don't do that, I won't make precedents. We asked for a vote. Before it is established that there is no, you can ask for a re-election. Don't make a circus out of Parliament. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21092	Madam Chairman. I suggest a compromise proposal. I, if you may, see here that there is a great willingness to continue, here, to respect you, too, that you can't tomorrow, could it be a compromise proposal to preserve the dignity of the House to schedule a session in two or three days. _________(?) No, we've got other things to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21094	If he can't, if he can't, on behalf of the Club, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm looking for that break that can be given right now, it's half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-10-25-0.u21095	I'm taking a half-hour break. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, we waited another 5-6 minutes after the time that was asked for a break, at this point I find that we do not have a quorum to continue the session for work and decision-making, and I ask our services to mark at this point which clubs, respectively, have not come after the request for a break to continue with 122 sessions. About continuing the session, I can't tell you anything right now. This will be decided by the College in accordance with the business provisions. Youbiti be notified of everything on time. I'm at this point, so I'm just interrupting actually a session because of a lack of quorum. Have a nice night. Session interrupted at 11:50 p.m.
