ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16815	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, we will begin our work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 43rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. To all those who responded to today's session, I give sincere greetings and welcome expressions. The absence from today's session was justified by the distinguished representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica, and the delay was announced by representatives Saša Magazinović, Nermina Kapetanović and Damir Bećirović, with three representatives engaged in a large hall at the Rose-Roth seminar. It is our delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to join, or at least part of them, the meeting of this House after their obligations under the Rose-Roth seminar allow them to do so. This was done in agreement with the College of the House of Representatives. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice on the inability to attend the session. According to the information provided by the Service of the session, 29 representatives are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We're moving on to the agenda. As for the addition of the agenda to the session, I would like to point out the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. Point 31. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct procedures for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-224-8/17, since 1603.2017. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. The word came from a respected representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16816	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I have been pointing out for five months that our House of Representatives has been bypassing an explicit provision contained in Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. We, in the past term, and in previous mandates, had regular practice to hold two joint sessions during one calendar year of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. It was the first time in 2016 that we had not had one such session, contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. On my warning from the session to the session, I received, among other things, an explanation from the College that the session was planned to be held. However, here, we enter the fourth month of 2017 and there is no session. I expected her to be scheduled today or yesterday, but there is no such thing. It's my question, and can we get a response from the College in writing, why such a session is gone, why are we breaking the Rules of Procedure and why are we bringing ourselves into this position? Ever since I saw only one meeting of the House of Representatives planned for April, it's even more like what kind of problems we're in. I think that those who boycott the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly directly or indirectly must bear adequate sanctions, and it would be good to think about when Parliament does not work full-time then to show it in both financial incomes and MPs and delegates, so that when they work half-way, they should also receive half the salary in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16817	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word anymore, I'm closing the argument. There are no new proposals here, there's an opinion of an esteemed colleague and suggestions, and we'll certainly give an explanation. The college tried to do it, we didn't have consent within the Joint College, it was once planned, so it was delayed. We'll make sure all business obligations are met. Since, therefore, we have concluded the debate, I find that the agenda of today's session is the way you got today in this updated agenda from the General College session. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 42nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Request for a vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers – applicants: Damir Bećirović, Željko Komšić, Mensura Beganović, Hanka Vajzović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Saša Magazinović, Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović, number: 01-50-1489/17, since 16/02; 4. The request of the Council of Ministers for the Review of BiH Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. 5. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 42nd session of the House of Representatives held on 07.03.2017, which reads: “Information on the decision of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01-50-1-2062-18/16, and on the violation of Annex VIII of the Dayton Peace Agreement” – Proposers: Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović, material number: 01-50-1-662/17, of 07.03.2017; 3 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the Representative of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-652/17, of 06.03.2017; 8. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salary and Compensation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-653/17, of 06.03.2017; 9. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1-2610/16, of 10.10.2016. (law in second reading); 10. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Governance Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017. (law in first reading); 11. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, zakon broj: 01,02-02-1-217, of 26.01.2017. (law in first reading); 12. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Emergency Procedure Act), Law No 01-02-1-105/17, of 11/01.2017; 13. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-1-126/17, since 12.01.2017; 14. The Commission's 2016 Report of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly, Act No 05/2-50-19-386/17, of 07.02.2017; 15. The Commission's 2016 report on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner, act No: 05/3-50-19-402/17, of 07.02.2017; 16. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Plan of work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, act No: 05/150-19-467/17, of 14/02; 17. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Commission's report on the decision-making work on conflict of interest, act No: 01,02,03-50-19-331/17, of 31.01.2017; 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the work reports of permanent committees of the House of Representatives: (a) Report on the work of the Constitutional Court of Representatives for 2016, No: 01-50-3-181/17, of 18.01.2017, (b) Report on the work of the Commission for the Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives for 2016, issue: 01/2-50-3-181/17, of 15.02.2017, (c) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs of the House of Representatives for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-50-3-181/17, of 07.02.2017, d) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the Representatives for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 24.01.2017, 4 e) Report on the work of the Commission for the Court of Justice:17-17. The Commission's report on the work of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-14-108/17, of 11.01.2017, c) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 03/3-50-14-14/108/17, of 02.02.2017., d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-108/17, of 02.02.2017., d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission for European Integration for 2016, issue: 03/4-50-108/17, of 03.02.2017, of the Official Commission for the Year: 01.02.2017. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the report on the implementation of recommendations from the Ombudsman for Human Rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Special Report on the Accessibility of Labour Spaces of Legislative Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Persons with Disabilities – Prosecutor: Human Rights Institution of BiH, Act No: 03/6,01,02,03-37-226/17, of 23.01.2017; 21. The Commission's report to the Committee on Efforts of Understanding on the Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2546/16, of 03.10.2016; 22. Report by the Commission on the Efforts to reach agreement on the Opinion of Mr Borjana Krišto proposal for a resolution on a motion for progress of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer: MEP Saša Magazinović, No: 01-02-2-490/17, since 1602.2017; 23. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Information on the Annual Training Plan and training of members and units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2017, the BiH Ministry of Defence material, issue: 03/1-03-2884/16, of 10.11.2016; 24. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Information Ministry of Defence of BiH on the Defence Review document (under the conclusion of the BiH Presidency, issue: 03/1-03-3131/16, of 13.12.2016).; 25. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, Act No 01,02-34-1-199/17, of 01.02.2017; 26. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the granting of approval for ratification: a) First amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on the granting of financial assistance to the Water and Waste Water Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II. - the restoration and upgrade of the water supply and waste water system in the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica, material number: 01,02-05-2-157/17, from 16.01.2017, 5 b) Amendment No 1 to the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, completed 05.10.2011 in Luxembourg and 25.10.2011 in Sarajevo – Hospital project in the RS, material number: 01,02-05-2-158/17, of 16.01.2017., c) Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the field of tourism, material number: 01,02-05-2-303/17, of 30.01.2017., d) of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Slovenia. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the material with the label, confidentially, act number: P – Pov – 07-03-10-9-49/16, of 17.11.2016; 28. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of BiH in criminal proceedings, foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2016 law, issue 01,02-50-19-542/17, of 21.02.2017; 29. Work report and financial report of the BiH Post Office for 2016, Act No 01,02-16-1-598/17, of 27.02.2017; 30. Information on the creation of a bill on the ban on the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees (realisation of the parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 9th session of the House of Representatives, held on 25.03.2015.) Act No 01,02-02-1-562/17, of 22.02.2017; 6 31. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-224-8/17, since 1603.2017; 32. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-50-14-376/17, dated 06.02.2017; 33. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No 01,02-02-4-566/17, of 22.02.2017; 34. Assessment of the application of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, material of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, issue: 01,02-50-19-666/17, of 07.03.2017; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Office for Youth Cooperation from the Western Balkan countries, No 01,02-05-2-612/17, of 28.02.2017; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement for Iterreg IPA CBC Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro 2014-2020 CCI 2014TC1615CB004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, issue: 01,02-05-2-651/17, from 06.03.2017; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Letters of Accession of the European Commission-Government Funding Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the Action Programme for Cross-border Co-operation of Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, which Bosnia and Herzegovina joined on 28.03.2016, issue: 01.02-05-2-682/17, dated 09.03.2017. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 42nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. Do you have any objections to the record? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Honorable College as well as the ladies and gentlemen present at today's session. As regards this item of the agenda, I have expressed that view in the College and there, as I would say, we have discussed and I am familiar with the position of the College, but since there is this possibility that this proposal should also be presented at the session by myself as chairman, i.e. the President of Club SBB 8 I am using this opportunity and I am making a proposal not to declare ourselves in the package, but to declare ourselves individually about the proposed, the proposed matter, for this simple reason, not explaining other proposals, but because of the fact that the Alliance for a better future a little more than two months ago has expressed its position when it comes to Mr Jusić, Assistant Minister Pendeš. And for the sake of consistency and our principle, we remain with this proposal and we ask the House to make clear about our proposal to separate this package so that we can continue to work on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16822	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16823	I thank the chairman. I'm sorry, uh, Mr. Đonlagić was a little faster on the move, but I appreciate, although you all have this paper, I appreciate that you should read, if anything, and meet everyone in the hall with this request as soon as possible. It is a request to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers. On the basis of Article 153(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, we address you with a request to initiate a vote on the need for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, in a way that votes on the replacement of BiH Defence Minister Ms. Marina Pendeš, as well as her deputies, Mr. Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić. Reason: Defence Minister Marina Pendeš and her deputies, Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić, opposed the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH and other relevant regulations, ordered and allowed the use and participation of part of the Armed Forces of BiH on 9 January 2017 at a ceremony in Banja Luka organised by the government of Republika Srpska entity, marking January 9th as the Republic of Serbia's Entity Day, which was found unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court of BiH by Decision No: U-3/13, of 26.11.2016. It is important to point out that Marina Pendeš, Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić exceeded the borders of their official authority when contrary to the Law on the Defence of BiH and the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH ordered and allowed the use of part of the BiH Armed Forces at the request of only one member of the BiH presidency. These officials allowed the illegal use of BiH Armed Forces units and failed to carry out their official duty to allow them to be used only under the authority of the entire BiH presidency. Marina Pendeš, Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić have done enormous damage to the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, particularly the Armed Forces of BiH, for which they are the ones in charge. They disobeyed the Constitutional Court decision, which is binding on all, and acted contrary to the decision. Taking into account Bosnia and Herzegovina's aspirations towards Euro-Atlantic integration, it is evident that Defence Minister Marina Pendeš and her deputies Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić have lost credibility necessary to perform such responsible functions. Because of all of this, we believe that Marina Pendeš, Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić should no longer behave in the positions they are in, because with each day they spend on their 9 functions, they inflict even more damage on the reputation of the Armed Forces of BiH. That is why we need to put a vote on the need for reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers on the agenda of the House of Representatives as soon as possible, and in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. And I still need to look back at the request that Đonlagić made on behalf of the SBB Club, I personally have nothing against the vote taking place.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16824	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16825	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. We in the Social Democratic Party of BiH are not satisfied with the activities of the Ministry of Defence, the minister and its deputies, and the direct cause was announced by Mr Komšić, and, of course, we signed it, and there is no reason for me to call on that kind of reasoning. What we are not satisfied with is the involvement of the minister who, although on vacation, supported her deputy's activities and brought Bosnia and Herzegovina into very difficult problems, which is why we believe she is not qualified to continue to run the Ministry of Defence in the coming period. And that's why, here, we're signatories to such a single request. As far as the demands of the Lord of the SBB MPs are concerned, of course, we don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16826	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16827	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. I would, of course, belong to a group of those who, for years, have been looking for a faster change of members of the Council of Ministers, or ministers, etc., but I would like to warn us all not to make a procedural mistake. What? I would like to draw attention to Rule 153 (4) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, which literally reads: – The House Speakers immediately submit this proposal to the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, MPs and the House of Peoples. Here, we came in this morning and this morning we got this initiative that has legitimate reasons and it's justified, but I'm afraid we're going to be wrong in the procedure. And for that, here, I warn you of these things. The other thing, I read from the media, unfortunately, is that one of the political parties has submitted a request for the replacement of the minister they have nominated, or proposed. According to the procedure, the chairman of the Council of Ministers should declare the request, but we have not received any statement until today, nor are we familiar with such an initiative. So it might be, perhaps, well, here, today, that we may, perhaps, hear the statement and the chairman of the Council of Ministers at such a request. And, of course, I join all those who ask for a single 10 to separate a statement on the matter, here, this request from colleagues from the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16828	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Arnaut has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16829	I thank the chairman. So, regarding what counterpart Đonlagić was saying, and just as counterpart Mehmedović recalled, the Alliance for a Better Future officially sent a request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on 11 January 2017 that, in accordance with Article 15. The Council of Ministers' Law initiates the procedure for the replacement of Deputy Defence Minister Mr Jusić, who was appointed SBB on a proposal and appointed as a joint minister. The SBB, too, officially noted in the request that it would forward the name of a new candidate for deputy defence minister immediately after the end of the procedure, since it is not possible, of course, to submit the name of a new candidate for deputy defence minister. It is completely unclear for us and above all unacceptable that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has not, as far as we know, done anything on this matter. What is definitely a fact that we are all familiar with, that the proposal by the chairman of the Council of Ministers for Trade of Mr Jusić was not delivered to the chairman of this House as it should be done in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. We therefore officially inform this route that Mr. Jusić is practically now the Deputy Minister not in front of the SBB, but in front of the chairman Zvizdić, because the chairman of Zvizdić is the one who officially has our request in his hands to start Mr. Jusić's shift, but for two and a half months, for his known reasons, refuses to start Mr. Jusić's shift and keeps him on the post regardless of the clear shortcomings that Mr. Jusić has committed in his work, and above all, I mean the failures of political nature. So, Mr. Jusić, as deputy defence minister, who at some point had all the powers from Minister Pendeš, acted in a way that he did not consult with either BiH presidency member Mr. Izetbegović or the president of the SBB, before which he was appointed to the deputy minister's post, on any move and all of those moves, by causing damage to the reputation of the BiH Armed Forces, but also in any case ignoring the clear provisions of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision. As far as the motion to separate the vote is concerned, it is unclear why the College in the extended composition did not accept the SBB's proposal to vote separately on this, i.e. the replacement of the minister and the two deputies to vote separately. We have now heard from the representatives of the two parties who launched this procedure that they have no objection to voting separately on the replacement of the minister and two deputies, so it is really unclear why anyone else would be against it if the representatives themselves were not against it. It is also clear from the motion to initiate a vote on the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers' Council that it can be voted separately, as it writes here – a request for an initiating vote on the need for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers in a way that votes on the replacement of BiH Defence Minister Marina Pendeš as well as her deputies, Sead Jusićai and Boris Jerinić. So nowhere does it stand to vote, that they are asking to vote in the package, no member of the Rules of Procedure requires a vote in the package. And we, especially considering the fact that more than two and a half months ago we launched an initiative to replace the SBB deputy minister, ask that this be voted separately. There's a reason. One reason is also to believe that decapitating the Ministry of Defence without some clear plan to fill key positions in an 11-bit period might not be the best solution. And for this reason, we believe that we need to end more of this procedure that we launched two and a half months ago, replace this deputy minister at our request, which was eventually appointed at our request, this one, and then eventually access the reconstruction of the others in the Ministry of Defence, or the rest of the Ministry of Defence. We all witnessed what happened when the security minister was removed so that Bosnia and Herzegovina had the most important, the head of the most important ministry for a year and a half, no one, or a deputy. In this case, even that would be missing. So, we'd basically be left without anyone at the head of the Department of Defense. The Council of Ministers or the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration is at least undefined when it comes to the management of the Ministry in absentia and ministers and deputies, and especially when it comes to the Ministry of Defence. It's about a ministry with a budget of over 350 million marks, so a third of BiH's budget, it's about more than 7,000 soldiers, it's about huge responsibility, it's about people under arms, so it's better to carry out the shift of deputies as we've already asked, and then eventually go further, depending on the further circumstances. I therefore again underline the SBB's request to vote separately on this proposal, to vote separately on the replacement of the minister, then one, then another deputy, and, as I have already pointed out, there are no procedural obstacles. We're really asking that a college that has powers put this separate to a vote. If the College refuses to do so, then we ask the House to plead. In any case, the word of the House is always above any provision of the Rules of Procedure and the House may, by its vote, even amend any provision of the Rules of Procedure, but yet I do not argue there is any provision of the Rules of Procedure that prevents it, especially when the promoters, as they have already pointed out, agree with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16830	Okay, thank you. Dear representative, I apologize, the consultations are alive in the College, the distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16831	I thank the chairman. I must say, I have carefully read this argument. I wish a member, a concrete member of the Law on the Defence of BiH, the Law on Armed Forces, was listed, pardon, the Constitution. I don't see anything but cheap pulsism. First, Ms. Marina Pendeš and her deputies did not order or allow anything, because the law does not give them such authority. Mr. Mladen Ivanić, chairman of the BiH presidency, ordered. And for the use of an honorary unit, so the laws say, he didn't need the presidency's decision, because Article 12. The Defence Act clearly states the Bureau's tax responsibilities regarding the Armed Forces. The regulation on celebrations and honours also makes it clear that it is only one form that the Bureau member fills, I think that Mr Komšić knows very well because he himself was able to do so, I believe he did not ask for the Bureau's consent to use honorary units. And that Regulation does not provide for the Ministry of Defense to verify and approve warrants at all. So, when the Ministry of Defence, according to the Bureau's Rules of Procedure, Article 33. The Rules of Procedure, a memo, i.e. the Mladen Ivanić form, are required to carry out the order of the Supreme Commander. And Article 33. 12 Rules of Procedure on the work of the Bureau say the Bureau's official act is what the chairman signed. This official act of the Presidency was not challenged by anyone. I will even remind you that Mr. Jusić asked Mr. Izetbegović to plead, Mr. Izetbegović did not dispute this because he knew that he had nothing to challenge, that he had no legal foothold to challenge a protocol activity. On the other hand, he said, on January 9th, the constitutional court's rulings are again opposed, the people are being implemented. The Constitutional Court challenged the religious character of January 9th. Republika Srpska's holiday law deleted, a new law was passed on January 9th, a law on Republika Srpska's day in which the secular character was decidently highlighted on January 9th.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16832	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16833	Well, I'm talking, Mr. Ahmetović, I don't know what's bothering you, uh, I'm talking about people not breaking any authority. On the contrary, if they had not acted under the orders of the Supreme Commander, in this case Mr Ivanić, they would have violated a number of regulations, and the minister was respected and her deputies, which refer to the area of discrimination, would have violated Articles 19(2) of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, because in this case the chairperson Ivanic, based on ethnicity, would have violated the Criminal Law - violation of human and citizen equality, Article 145, Article 145a), the challenge of national, racial and religious hatred, discord and impatience, would have committed abuse of position and authority, Article 220, and, of course, unconscious service work, Article 224. Therefore, the Honorable Minister Pendeš and her deputies, I don't really know when any of them were on duty, they only respected the laws and acted in accordance with what their legal powers are and what their legal obligations are. And their basic legal obligation is to obey the order of their supreme commander, in this case the chairman of the presidency, Mr. Mladen Ivanić. I want to say right away that if the SBB as its staff wants to take Mr. Jusić's shift, we don't mind, but I can't be the reason. Deliver here eight signatures, without any explanation, we will not ask you at all if this is a party decision by the SBB, your staff, you have a perfectly legitimate right to change it, appoint a new one, so without any reason just say the SBB Club wants Mr. Jusić's shift, we don't need arguments, we will support it. But this way we accuse a man of being guilty of something he's not guilty of, we can't really support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16834	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16835	I thank the chairman. Mrs. Pandurević would really be right, and she was great at quoting regulations that regulate the use of an honorary unit, and no one can make any remarks, and that would be the case if that were the case. However, this is about the illegal and unconstitutional use of the Armed Forces, in order to be, and the regulatory units, and the unit of the Armed Forces, in fact, a brigade based in 13 Republika Srpska. It's not an honorary unit. The Honorary Unit is with special uniforms, markings and... functions called honoring statesmen, etc., etc. So here, above all, Mr Ivanić made, or broke the Constitution of BiH and the laws on defence adopted by the Constitution, and certainly all those in the chain who, they were right, should have actually known, and they knew, that it was not about the Honorary Unit, but it was about the Armed Forces Unit.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16836	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16837	Well, since Mrs. Pandurević mentioned me personally, I must introduce you to the fact that I have never asked for the use of an honorary unit. All I asked as a member of the presidency of that unit were two soldiers at the plantation. And I won the honorary unit when those occasions were for it and not at my request. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr. Mešić has already said this, I will repeat it to you, it is not about the use of an honorary unit, but the combat unit of the 6th Infantry Brigade based in Banja Luka. The third thing, chairman of the presidency is not the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, the High Commander of the Armed Forces is the presidency as a whole. And decisions on the use of units must be made by consensus, otherwise they do not exist. And the fourth thing, the practice was in the BiH presidency when I was there, even when it came to emergency situations, using helicopters to transport patients, to put out fires, even for that helicopter in an emergency situation, they had to give all three members of the presidency orally, and then it was verified by written decision. That's how it was done. As for the provisions of the Constitution and the law, it may be a mistake for us not to get them for you, but for the wages we receive from Bog I am worth the effort and to read the Constitution and the law, and even to know those provisions, or who does what in this country, at least according to... its...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16838	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Mirsad Đonlagić, not respecting the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16839	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I have the impression that we have already embarked on the metrics debate, on the details related to the SDP and DF proposal. Our request was very simple for this package, as proposed, to be separated and to be individually declared, namely those to whom this proposal applies. We feel that there is no need to expand the debate now in another direction, but I would like to, and I call on everyone to go back to our proposal and practically take a stand on our proposal and then we can discuss all these details,... start that debate. I would really like to ask if you can intervene and channel that debate in that direction so that we can first come forward about the SBB Club proposal, and then this debate is already being realized as it has already begun. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16840	Thank you. So, we will certainly as the College plead on your proposal after the debate is concluded by the initiative, it is therefore a matter of how to vote separately,... as it is according to the Rules of Procedure. So you'll have the answer to the College's question. Thank you for paying attention to this, but we're making sure you know... We have a live consultation within us while the discussion is going on, you might notice, is, the important question. A respected representative, deputy chairman Mladen Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16841	I think we'll agree on how to get out of this in the end, but that's the topic that needs to be opened before the vote itself, whether we vote one way or another, and we're in discussion about the metrics. I'm going to try on the essence of this problem to say a few words. So, it's amazing that one political event or one political provocation in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be the main theme of the entire country six, eight or year, six, eight months or a year, and there's no absolute impact on the lives of citizens who are increasingly living, more and more leaving, the economy is falling apart, we're all more isolated together. And let me remind you how it went. It began with the appeals of members of the presidency of Bakir Izetbegović on the removal of the 9th of January as Republika Srpska's day, which Republika Srpska voted in accordance with its Constitution and the will of its citizens, and how everyone, each political option looks at the initiative and the unfortunate, I think, unfortunate, constitutional court ruling, how to get some political benefit out of the situation, regardless of what will worsen relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina, deepen the crisis, cause misunderstanding, bickering, media performances. All the shows, hours and hours, months of discussion were held over this one move that began with this appeal. Then we had months of debate over the referendum that will be held in Republika Srpska on the basis of this appeal and we had practically determined a large part of the election and the results of the local elections in Republika Srpska on the basis of this political move, which I assume brought political benefits to the one who triggered the appeal, but without any dilemma brought political benefits to Republika Srpska to those who accepted it as a gift from the sky to challenge, to show how they fight for national interests. I thought it was a finished story, and she extended on January 9th and a debate over a celebration in Banja Luka. And that's when I thought the story was over, and now the political factors, which watch now on the remains of that story still draw some political point, are re-launching this story through this shift initiative. So, basically, insignificant and unnecessary cause leads us to debate. We have spent more time on this than on any topic that means anything to the lives of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, we will not support this initiative with such a occasion and these reasons. We believe Mladen Ivanić had the right to seek and receive what he asked for. And even if the opposite were not to be supported because behind this initiative, it is clear that the intention is to collect in public a political point for the promoters of this initiative. And our relations are such that slowly one institution at a time in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'm sure after that it follows the same at entity level, comes into a blockade, we come to an increasingly difficult situation and we don't talk about it, we're not talking about it, we're talking about, the main point of the agenda today's session is this one. 15 We all know what the outcome will be but we need to spend five or six hours and we need to catch a political point on this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16842	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16843	I thank the chairman. Rule 69 (4) of the Rules of Procedure states – The Chairman gives the Members a word in the order they have applied for. The replicas on this agenda behind Mr. Mladen Bosić have been reported by Damir Arnaut, a colleague of Aleksandra Pandurević. Afterwards, counterpart Arnaut annulled his application for discussion so that, for the replica, he would go after Aleksandra Pandurević, not to use his right more than once, which would have injured Article 69. The Rules of Procedure and I ask the Chairman to give the words to the MPs in order to register.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16844	Thank you very much. sekretar, you take a look at the Rules of Procedure on this subject. I don't think there's a deal with the Rules of Procedure if the MP logs in and then gives up, and then later he returns, I don't think we've got that question fixed, but here's the secretary to look at it, I don't mind, let it be the way the Rules of Procedure says it. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16845	Thank you. I've heard a lot of things, and this funny thing I haven't heard before, this one. My kolega Novaković knows very well that I have more than four ways to apply and that four times I speak on different grounds which I will use today if I need it. So these things that maybe people are mostly saying to themselves, this one, that might come to mind, don't come to mind. You see, first of all, I'm going to, uh, look back at my colleague Bosić's discussion. While all this debate on the referendum, the Constitutional Court, on 9 January, and all those topics of which, you say, the citizens have nothing, I agree, have none of it, while all this debate lasted, but just as the debate lasted, at some point while the debate on these topics lasted You and the rest of your Club voted against my proposal for a law on the restriction of severance, and from that topic the citizens would have a lot. But you voted against it. So now that I'm listening to you citizens have something or don't have. Today these people who launched this are accusing me of collecting political points, and then you accused me of collecting political points for wanting to limit the severances. So what are we going to discuss here, if we're not going to talk about these topics, if we're not going to limit severances, it turns out for you that the best thing to do is that we don't hold 16 sessions at all, and that seems to be exactly the direction you're going. Because the fewer and less the sessions, the less and less the points of the agenda. So much for that. As for the SBB's request for Mr. Jusić's replacement, no other club will be able to arrange for us, which is why we're going to be looking for a shift, and especially no other club will tell us how to do it. We are asked here to collect eight signatures, the Council of Ministers Act clearly says, we have done what we should have done, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to whom we submitted a proposal for his appointment, we also submitted a proposal for his replacement on 11 January. The chairman of the Council of Ministers keeps it in a drawer. And when it comes to why a club will vote, if this or that reason, when it was the Secretary of Security's shift, on the SDA initiative, then you and the SNSD followed the SDA, and you told me we wouldn't get involved in what the Bosniaks wanted, if it wasn't guilty, it doesn't matter, if the Bosniaks want to change the Bosniak minister we will..., you've unspeakably followed the SDA, you haven't asked for reasons, and now you're asking us for reasons. What one of my colleagues would say - come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16846	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16847	Mr. Bosić, with the political assessment that you essentially carried out, I can agree or disagree, so the moves that have been taken and led to this situation, by the way, I agree, but it is a political matter, however, remains what is a violation of the rules, which is a constitutional and legal matter. And if you're suggesting that we get over it, what I'm pulling, perhaps unfounded, out of your discussion, to make it all right, I still can't agree with that. When we talk about the political effects of something, it's kind of a story, but when it comes to the actions of the competent authorities, whether or not according to the Constitution and the laws, it's a classic legal thing. I can discuss with you whether it is wise anything Bakir Izetbegović raised that question, but it is undeniable that he was right and according to the Constitution, the effects are what they are, such as indisputable that you have the right to a political position and to say that it should not have been done, but it is undeniable that the Armed Forces unit used is the opposite of both the Constitution and the law. And that unit that can't be used, it's a combat unit, it shouldn't have taken part in it. When we get back to this story about the Honorary Unit, let me tell you honestly how much I know the regulations would be given there, right here, but depending on the interpretation, but on the use of 6. The infantry brigades past the BiH presidency's decision, it's obvious. So, with all the political assessments of all the moves you've made, I could agree, but I can't go over what it means to break the Constitution and the law, so whatever you call it, by collecting political points, whatever you say, it's simply a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16848	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16849	I thank the chairman. 17 He says the SDS followed an unspeakable SDA when the former minister of security was being replaced, and now we're looking for an explanation. We're not looking for an explanation, we don't need an explanation. You're just getting an extra explanation. I know it's a problem to publicly say that man doesn't implement the party's human policies and that's why he's changing, without reason. I, too, can reciprocate and say that the SBB unspeakably followed the SNSD when he claimed in his previous session that Minister Šarović was the best minister but they followed SNSD and replaced him. I can say that. Moreover, I am pleased to note that the honorary unit, the rules of the Armed Forces Service, article 696, honors senior foreign officials and delegations, means the honorary unit of chambers, in the official, who come for an official visit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as senior domestic state officials and delegations visiting the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, is giving the Honorary Unit of the Armed Forces. So when foreign delegations come to us, when we see them outside the presidency, and when one of the senior officials visits the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, then the use of an honorary unit is mandatory. Article 28. The rule on celebrations and honors says that honoring the Armed Forces unit means, with the ordinary unit used by Mr Mladen Ivanić, it means, not only honorably, it can be approved when marking significant anniversarys, dates organised by entity institutions, etc., etc. So there's no breach of any acts of sublegal, any legal one again. I repeat, Ministry of Defense won Official acts signed by Mr Ivanić and are not at the Ministry of Defence to conduct an investigation whether or not there was a session of the presidency. [[Embassy is warned on time]] If someone had opposed the decision to something in Mr Ivanic's presidency, then he could put the agenda in session and challenge what Mr Ivanić signed, and no one did. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16850	Thank you. Please stick to the time. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So there's no colleague of mine, Komišić, and to him I wanted to, uh, direct these words to me. I guess I can do it when he's gone, right? So, the explanation he read is good for the court perhaps, and since Parliament is not a court, and he is not a judge, nor a prosecutor, nor those who signed this, so obviously this is part one, part broader action so-called. a radical extreme right that has been politically destabilising Bosnia and Herzegovina these days, and has led even one Parliament astray to vote against European acts in order to stop Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to European integration. Thank you very much. Of course we won't support this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16852	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16853	Thank you, Chairman. 18 Ma, Mrs. Pandurević once again great quotes the rule of service. The rule of the Service is of course not a basic and basic act, it was derived from the Law of Service in the Armed Forces. And again, we are going back to the fact that a member of the predsjednišve can't use the Armed Forces unit without consensus in the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16854	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16855	I think I was fast enough, yeah. Thank you, uh, chairman. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen. It would be really good, as Mrs Pandurević did, to call on any member of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the regulation that defines this issue or this area. Here, if you will, I will read you from the Constitution, let's say the Standing Committee, each member of the Presidency has a civilian command over the Armed Forces, so that I don't read any further, because this member of the Constitution is of course not in line with the reality here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so let's go from the highest act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the Constitution. So from the Constitution come all these laws that we talked about. If you want me to read further to you this member of the Constitution can, and that's not a problem, but it would really be correct if you were already calling for all regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina to at least say which member of the Constitution, which part of the Rules of Procedure, regulations and so on. So there simply isn't, there is no argument that could in any way indicate that there has been a violation of the Constitution or the law. In that sense, I believe that, uh, Mrs. Pandurević has indeed pointed out that all those members who have respected the law, which part of the Constitution is respected, and ultimately, how the competent ministry handled this case. Therefore, I do not see a single remark and, of course, I believe that this issue is certainly in the sphere of politics, not in the sphere of what the legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina has prescribed. And with that in mind, uh, Mr. Mladen Bosić said that this is, in fact, how we should actually look at this issue because it is exactly the way it is presented in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16856	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, the discussion finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16857	Good afternoon, everyone in the hall. I'm not going into a trap here to discuss the Constitutional Court's verdict and the 9th of January, this, because it's everything and even more than anything said. I only know every time this country takes a step or two forward, or tries to do it, it opens up essentially irrational crises that block those steps. Unfortunately, often in this Parliament, on the basis of a series of initiatives or debates, this Parliament has often contributed to this deepening of the crisis in the country. And, interestingly, it is in fact those who say that they are national in the second plan, and citizens and their economic and social situation in the first plan. That's right this time. It's already been said here that this shift request did not, uh, quote articles of the law but was rather general, so 19 I'm not going to talk about his, uh, or defend, here's what's already been said in some way, what might be interesting to say here that in this whole... about this crisis the only institution that didn't crack on national stitches was the Ministry of Defense. If that's good or bad, here's what I leave for everyone to evaluate. It's actually because of why I volunteered for the debate and the need arose or my obligation that when such a request arises for any reason to express my opinion on the work of the people of the institutions to which it relates. I think, and that's what I'm holding, and the Club of Mine, I reported to a colleague of the Club, because he was absent, that, that the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense are a better part of this country and that the management of the Ministry of Defence, the minister, along with his deputies, has been very good and quality in the last two years doing this job, is actually trying in spite of all the negative opportunities and circumstances to bring his Ministry and Armed Forces into line with NATO standards, which is one part of the Reform Agenda, which is one part of the plan and programme of the Council of Ministers. I say, they do it well and well despite all opportunities and circumstances. The proof of that is, here today, I think cooperation with the American Embassy, I don't know about, in one part of these activities. And that is why it is clear that we will not support this request, but, behold, this opportunity to give full support from this House to the work of the Ministry of Defence, the Minister and her deputies in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16858	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16859	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll be real quick, I don't think I will, but it won't be any shorter than what I'm about to say. I do not accept anything that is written in this request, and on the consultations within and between the Presidency, we could still discuss it. The consultations both under the plum and outside the plum, etc., that would be to talk here for days and days. I'll stop here, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16860	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16861	Dear chairman, esteemed guests, ministers, prime minister and others present. Given that we have heard a series of evaluations today regarding this initiative, a series of arguments for and against the replacement of the minister and her deputies, I would like to be an MP, and I am informed that our resolution is, that our defense committee has asked the Ministry for one piece of information to look at all aspects of this event that happened, that we have all the facts and that we have had it on track today along with this initiative and to make one right decision so that we do not really make a mistake. It is not a controversial request from the SBB that, if the vote were to be split, and we as the Club would support it, but rather, after the debate ended, I would request a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16862	Thank you very much. 20 Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16863	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As my colleague, Mr. Kožul said, here I was not there at some point, he really said what we think, with me just sort of complementing it. In fact, you know that these days, here is a three-day seminar called Rose – Roth, a seminar of the Parliamentary Assembly and NATO, whose members we are, so in the discussion, the panels that have been processed these 2-3 days were attended by both the Minister and our other officials and could hear, and co-workers who had interest in this topic were also at these sessions to say what the Armed Forces and what they were thinking about there were representatives of the NATO Assembly. So you would see that, therefore, they are trying to help us find ways to run the MAP, that they are not serious, that they actually had no objections to the work of the Armed Forces or the Ministry, and now we have, therefore, these demands that are nebulous and are on the trail of really creating a political crisis. I don't know for what, but I'll try to find out, it seems to me that it's a broader action like I said these so-called. Lefts that are becoming more extreme and more radical, but we will know how to answer them, so only if they continue like this, so we will have an answer to what they are doing all these days, so at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16864	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16865	I welcome you ladies and gentlemen. I have followed what we have discussed today and it seems to me that we are unnecessarily getting into the anxiety of things that are a normal part of the process in this Parliament, or any Parliament. A legitimate request from one group, included in the agenda, and what we think about that request will be the result of how we vote, and we have to accept it. What would be good if these were topics, when we in Parliament talk as representatives of citizens and parties, when we are not all involved in the dimensions of the specificity of the legal definitions of individual affairs, it is an indication of the Council of Ministers. As he sees the situation, what is his point of view, whether something in our moves can produce benefits or damage, but in any case we must make sure that the ancient needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens, entities, exceed what our relationship to time and role we have. We need to be more efficient here. Let's look at the proposal, calmly, responsibly, in a way that we're going to make known about it, accept the will of a club that says, you know, two months ago or something we started the procedure in a way that was completely transparent. We have determined our political position and directed towards the Council of Ministers that it should give an expert assessment in order to make a statement. A lot of things are waiting for us to have citizens standing as a need, and for what we are responsible for. Today's debate shows again that we are easily skating into what draws us away from the things that stand before us. I therefore propose that we plead calmly and responsibly on this proposal, but first I would like to call on the Council of Ministers' representative to be seen as to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16866	Thank you very much. 21 I apologize, this, in the end, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16867	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, this request, as has already been said, has been submitted by MPs of the Democratic Front and the Social Democratic Party of BiH, and as one of the eight signed, I will not repeat what was contained in the request, as it has already been delivered to the MPs and here again again today. I would like to say at the end of this debate that it is not about any politicisation but about a logical and justified move by the opposition here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. And it is clear to all, and to those who acknowledge and do not acknowledge that the BiH Armed Forces unit is not used but abused. There were MPs here who wanted to say what the point was, explain how it all started. I have to say that the topic we're discussing has its own, number one, and roots and causes, there, number two, and all the flow and content, missing the third element, these are sanctions, and they can be both political and criminal. We're talking about political sanctions today. And where are the roots of these problems and these situations that we've been brought into this position? Many may not have read it, but Republika Srpska's Assembly of Bh Entities adopted a legal act a few years ago that struck the essence of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In fact, there would have been no annexes in Dayton if it hadn't been for the General Framework Agreement signed by the three countries, and it does, whether I liked it or not, at the beginning of the General Framework Agreement that there was a tragic conflict in the region, I stress in the region, and look here at the "Official Messenger" of Republika Srpska, which I have adopted the Declaration of Causes, Characters, Characters, and the consequences of the war, etc. And for the first time since Dejton, it has never been on the agenda, nor had it occurred in the State Parliament, nor had it been in any entity parliament to get into that matter, because it was defined by the General Framework Agreement for Peace, and in that Declaration officially published in the "Official Messenger" it is said that it is, quote, a tragic armed conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look, this was adopted a few years ago. It's a rough fake, a prank, and a fake with a complete Dayton Peace Accord. And this was the introduction to the referendum and this was the introduction after that and in this 9 January and illegal and unconstitutional activities that we are talking about. And that should be made clear. Kologa Lovrinović, when trying to demonise the political parties of the left orientation, should also read this Declaration because in this Declaration which is the official position of the Republika Srpska Assembly, there was no aggression between Slobodan Milošević and his regime, the only aggressor here, look at this document, is the army of the Republic of Croatia. So, from Dejton to today, neither the State Parliament nor any entity parliament has made a similar assessment. I always thought that Dragan Čović had some primate in relations when it comes to Dodik, but when I came to this document and read it, I still see that Dodik is ahead of Čović. This is an official document, so the entity assembly, I'm not speaking in my head. And that we are not now talking about this referendum that was unconstitutional, and that it was unconstitutional, the Constitutional Court said, both the European Council and the European Parliament and the United States, and the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany, and that we are not counting all the other factors. As a result, such activities, of course, require that judicial authorities do their part of the work, but, of course, such activities should not be silenced here or in the legislative bodies. And what we're talking about today is actually a political aspect of this topic. Whatever vote today is certainly not going to end with it. So when we talk about this subject don't, don't think it just came to that, so it has its roots, it has a very clear 22 basis, clear evidence of how it happened, and now it's up to all of us to see how we're going to get out of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16868	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16869	Well, first of all, I congratulate my colleague Bećirević's imagination because really these two bring together should have an imagination and I must say that he surprised me as a great writer of declaration, a resolution, and especially as someone who illegally stamped on resolutions and declarations that he sent from here to the United Nations falsely representing himself, so this, this, this imagination simply leaves me speechless. Now, what I'm thinking is, every single thing I'd say, I'd put myself in a situation if my colleague Bećirević said the same thing about me. So I'm going to keep on this so that what we have on the agenda today is obviously small and that we need to expand things further. And it wouldn't be bad if we really looked at ourselves like people once, so let's see if this country can go any further this way or maybe there's someone else that we're not able to see here or we're incapable of changing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16870	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16871	So, I would only correct Mr. Bećirović the next thing he said, so he was talking about two kinds of responsibility politically and legally when it came to what they started, and all the time in the explanation they talked about was that the law was broken. That's why I said this isn't a court and this isn't a prosecution. So, you may not like how it works at the Ministry, how the minister works, and it may be a legitimate political request, as Mr. Škaljić said, we will plead to him, but in an explanation you said it was a violation, so you tried it on us, even though you didn't do it as Bog commands. But as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, you've understood me, so now you've tried some other kind of story, but there's going to be a story, and we'll talk about it, and I guess now that you've found those documents you're talking about, this one, or in your next appearances, you and your colleagues will say that from Croatia, therefore, you'll come to help Bosnia and Herzegovina, not aggression. I hope you change that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16872	Thank you very much. Let's go to the discussion, distinguished representative Mirsad Isaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16873	I thank the chairman. I want to say hello to all of you. 23 Of course, I wanted to get involved in this discussion and confirm this position of the SBB, therefore, in order to be compatible to the end in the sense that we support the vote and the statement of confidence, this, the Ministry of Defence, but in this discussion I want to make it clear that our deputy minister, in our understanding, has overstepped constitutional powers, disobeyed the constitutional decision, and I think he has lost credibility both in the people and in the party from which he comes. And I think we should respect the party's decision that he proposed, uh, the deputy minister that he didn't meet what he was obliged to do. As for the political points mentioned here, therefore the SBB does not want to collect political points, just two days, or three days after 9 January, we sent a request to the Council of Ministers, a perfectly legal request, for the replacement of our minister, because we found that he did not act in accordance with the Constitution. So he has abused his position and we want to say it clearly here and that we want to change, or we already have a proposal for a new candidate for that position. That is why we believe that he is truly responsible for the alignment and that he has signed this Decision. I would therefore like to say that you support this SBB proposal and that we are not going further into debate in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16874	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Well, what I'm saying is that, in my opinion, the proposings are not consistent if they accept an individual vote, this one. They are in reason, here I will quote, stated – that Defence Minister Marina Pendeš and her deputies Sead Jusić and Boris Jerinić have against the Law on Armed Forces of BiH and other relevant regulations allowed the use and participation of the Armed Forces, not to list further. So, they precisely defined through an explanation for the shift, or the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, the responsibility and Mrs. Marina Pendeš and Mr. Jusić and Jerinić as her deputies. And in my opinion, uh, we shouldn't be pleading individually in this case, but just as it is stated, or everyone in the packages is responsible for what produced, here's the point of the agenda here today or the request for a shift, or not responsible. There's no sharing of responsibility for me, because then we're not consistent, we're not principled, because here's the media space before, here's the speech here today, that shared responsibility is highlighted when it comes to top people at the Ministry of Defense. The way I'm going to plead I'm going to show it by voting, but I want here, regardless of the request we have from the SBB Club, to direct us to the package on this proposal. I also understand the SBB's proposal, he was addressed in advance to the Council of Ministers and is still alive, still in the process, so far we have not considered, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, if he continues to insist on it. The SBB Club can launch that initiative unless they as a club are satisfied with the vote that will be here today at the House of Representatives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16876	Thank you. 24 Dear Representative Damir Arnaut, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16877	I thank the chairman. I would like to point to Rule 157 (2) of the Rules of Procedure which says that when such requirements are for reconstruction in the matter of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it has the right to respond and state its position. I agree he has the right, he doesn't, but it's highly unclear for me to demand the replacement of the minister and the two deputy defence department that has the budget, as I said, 350 million, 7,000 soldiers under arms, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has no position, the chairman of the Council of Ministers does not want to answer, to state his position on such a matter, it is particularly unclear to me. And I call on him to state his position, and when he does, if he accepts, so should I, I would ask, explain why he is not doing anything for two and a half months on SBB's request to replace Deputy Minister Jusić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16878	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering my phone again, I'm closing the argument. I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16879	Dear Chairmans and members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished colleagues and present media, I welcome you all. There was no need for you, sir, to call me to give my position, because I did, half an hour ago, report that I'm going to express my position so I'm doing it because of my application and not because of your request. When I talk about the request to initiate the procedure for the replacement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Defence Minister, it is stated in your request that you are looking for his shift because he has taken certain moves related to the participation of members of the BiH Armed Forces in the events for the marking of the holiday that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, without consulting with all members of the BiH presidency. But in numerous statements following this, issued by Deputy Jusić, as well as the prominent Minister Pendeš, they have always made it very clear that no legal procedures have been broken and that everything has been done in accordance with the legal procedures, at least when it comes to leadership, so Minister and Deputy Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But in order not to base our views on such statements alone, I am waiting for a report that we all know the Ministry of Defence did, it was forwarded to the Presidency, that is, further analysis is being done, and it is very interesting that in such a long discussion no one has referred to it, although we all know that the Ministry of Defence is doing a report that will make it very clear that it is also the minister or deputy minister that they have violated the legal procedures regarding the engagement of the Armed Forces, a consultation with the Presidency or any other procedure provided by the Law on the Armed Forces of BiH. Therefore, I do not have that report yet, of course because of the jurisdiction first goes to the Presidency, when I get it and if it is very clearly indicated, it has been justified that Deputy Jusić has violated any legal procedure within the jurisdiction and function he performs, I will not have a single reason but to not launch, in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act and my responsibilities, and put into office and your request to launch the shift of the respected Deputy Jusić. But that on the other hand your request 25 was related only to the fact that Deputy Jusić lost moral credibility, that he did not implement the programme orientation from the party that has appointed him here, and that he is acting contrary to the powers and functions he performs as Deputy Minister of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina then of course I would have no reason to have such a request for his replacement, since he comes from the party that appointed him, and I do not put into office which would mean your testimony about the replacement of Deputy Jusić. On the other hand, it would be perfectly normal for Deputy Jusić, who was run in front of the SBB and received a post based on the SBB's candidacy, at the moment it became clear that he had lost his party's support to resign to the post and thus the whole process would be resolved. But apparently he does not give office for the reasons set out in the light of his shift that he considers not to be justified and that he did not violate any of the only legal procedures. To know that we will wait for a report from the Ministry of Defence that has been completed, an additional few analyses are being carried out. I think we should all be familiar with this report, not only the BiH presidency, but also the Council of Ministers, although there is no jurisdiction to use the Armed Forces of BiH, then we will know afterwards whether Mr. Jusić has violated the legal procedures. If he violates any legal procedure my first move will be to put in the process of your request for replacement of Deputy Jusić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16880	Thank you. I'm closing the debate now definitely and I'm taking a break at the request of the president of the SDA Club for, like, 20 minutes? _________(?) 15. 15 minutes. We continue 11:45 and vote 11:45 on this agenda item on all matters. Please be here 11:45.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16883	Here is the Club of Members of the SDA used this pause for consultations, indeed for a complete decision based on reports we do not have, we really do miss all the facts, but today the SDA will support, above all, SBB's request to separate the vote, will also support their request for the replacement of their deputy minister, for these two we do not have enough facts and will most likely be against the shift of both the minister and the deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16884	Thank you very much. 26 You heard the explanation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we have a request, Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16885	I thank the chairman. If such a conclusion really is to separate the vote, we need additional breaks to determine ourselves against that requirement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16886	Thank you very much. Are you looking for a break right now or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16887	So it means... Before the conclusion is made, we're looking for a half-hour break. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16888	Does the SBB stay at its request to split the vote into two? _________(?) ... Why don't we stay? ...that colleague Pandurević... is asking us if we're staying. [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course we're staying. We have pointed out the request... acting according to our request... I don't think I deserve it, I don't think I deserve that kind of... _________(?) ... No, no, you haven't been told anything. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16891	The Rules of Procedure make it clear that a break can be sought if the vote has not begun. The debate is over, we're in the process of voting. So, we're not, we don't have any more debates, the break can be sought during the debate within the agenda point. I can't ask for a break here, you can, here's a secretary to give his opinion, but it's very clear he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16892	Did the vote start? 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16893	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16894	Please don't let us complicate things when we've brought things to an end, please sit down, have you finished?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16895	So I'm not done, I'm saying we can't, we can't accept this request. Since you asked for the club's position, Professor Đonlagić has already said, I underline if the promoters agree I do not see at all why further debate on this, the College can make this decision to separate the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16896	So, we closed the debate. Do you insist, Mr. Novaković? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16897	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I was going to say, if you had concluded the debate then this debate couldn't have happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16898	Thank you very much. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, please, there's nothing more you can do. The debate is closed. We as a College decided to put together a proposal by the SBB Club to separate the vote, to particularly vote on Minister Pendeš and Deputy Minister who, Jerinić, and to vote specifically on Deputy Minister Jusić, who is the SBB candidate. And we'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16900	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16901	A member of the College is asking for a break. How much?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16902	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16903	15 minutes, at Mr. Bosić's request. At 12:10 p.m., we move on. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, Mr. Bosić asked for a break. Is there a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16905	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16906	There's no need. We move to a statement, and I am now putting on a proposal from the SBB's Club of Representatives with agreement, of course, with the motions of this initiative, to separate the vote, to vote first on the request for reconstruction through the replacement of Minister Pendeš and Deputy Minister Jerinić, and to vote afterwards on the reconstruction through the replacement of Deputy Minister Jusić. Now, therefore, we are voting on the SBB proposal, supported by the promoter, to separate the vote in this way. Prepare to vote on this proposal. With 27 votes in favour of, 3 votes against, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that this is how we adopted the motion to vote separately. We are now voting on a request for reconstruction through the replacement of Minister Pendeš Marina, Defence Minister Mrs Pendeš Marina and Deputy Defence Minister Boris Jerinić. Prepare to vote. With 5 votes in favour, 21 against and 5 abstentions, the House of Representatives did not support this request for reconstruction through the replacement of Minister Pendeš and Deputy Minister Jerinić. We now move to a vote on the request for reconstruction through the replacement of Deputy Minister, Mr Sead Jusić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 votes for, 9 votes against, 2 abstentions, an insufficient entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity. So we have a general majority we don't have an entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. We should go to the second round. Can we go to round two right now? We can. Prepare to vote in the second round. 20 votes for, 9 votes against, 2 abstentions, no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity. So I find that the House of Representatives supported, therefore, this request or initiative for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers through the replacement of Deputy Defence Minister Mr Sead Jusić. 29 We continue to work. Moving to the point of the four agenda, that's Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, of 20.03.2017 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 23.03.2017, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16908	I thank the chairman. We really appreciate that there may be a valid reason why the Council of Ministers is asking for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure, but as we see this proposal for a bill was adopted on 18 January 2017 at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, in Parliament was adopted on 20 March, do not God Bog, that there were no reasons for urgency if only then we got it, in 2017. We got it at the club yesterday at four, five o'clock, so I saw it this morning and found out we got it. Since it is not one or two members where we can clearly identify ourselves, but 22 members are changing, we are not ready today to support the emergency procedure and plead, because we do not know what we are pleading on, the weather cannot read this. So either I pray that, I don't know, today here we may be voting to take this down, so we can postpone the plea for the next session or send the law to the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16909	Thank you. It's up to you, you have a key in front of you, the ability to say what you think, so you can decide how you decide to do it, and we'll record it. No one's answering for a word anymore. We're going to vote now, and I have to put Mrs. Pandurević to the vote, so I don't have the authority to take this off the agenda. We're going to vote, the secretary needs you, to vote on the procedure, right? Prepare to vote. Vote now, on an emergency procedure for the Law on Administration, Amendments and Supplements, we vote on the procedure. So 11 votes for, 7 votes against, 12 abstentions, there is no third from Republika Srpska's entity. There's no Mr. Bosić here, so we'll leave this for the second round of pleas. And we're going to the next agenda point, that's point five, 30 Ad. 5. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 42nd session of the House of Representatives held on 07.03.2017, which reads: “Information on the decision of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01-50-1-2062-18/16, and on the violation of Annex VIII of the Dayton Peace Agreement” – Proposers: Saša Magazinović and Denis Bećirović, material number: 01-50-1-662/17, from 07.03.2017. The House College, working as a commission, failed to reach agreement on the proposal. The compliance report you received, no debate on this agenda point. Point six, Ad. Six. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the adoption of the 41st session of the Representative of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16914	... just to draw attention to the voting documents, the chairman of Bosić is not here... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16915	So it doesn't affect the vote, he certainly doesn't come in because he's not in...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16916	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16917	Yeah, yeah, well, here, so turn it off, please, uh, whoever's not there should turn off the card. I'm opening a debate, now we're moving on to discussion. Here you go, Mr. Damir Arnaut, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16918	I thank the chairman. As I pointed out last time, the SBB Club believes this is an extremely useful proposal and we welcome all kinds of savings. So, just to remind you, it's about abolishing jubilee awards for elected and appointed officials. According to the proposal for an emergency procedure, i.e. the law will be adopted by emergency procedure and, of course, prevents amendments, it will not change our commitment to support this proposal, but I just want to remind you of why we, however, no matter how small changes and amendments to the law are made when we propose, never go to an emergency procedure, always go to regular procedure because in the ordinary procedure, something can always be fixed. The example works in this Bill proposal states that jubilee awards cannot be given to elected and appointed officials, and the Law on Salaries also recognises advisers as a special category and let's say that we had the opportunity to act in amendment in the ordinary procedure 32 we would only add that word – and advisers. Unfortunately, the advisers will remain, they will remain entitled to jubilee awards, although in all other segments they are always treated in the same sentence with elected and appointed officials. So that's one, I'm sure, knowing the intentions of a fellow, completely unintentional failure, but something that could have been done regularly, uh, repaired. Of course, if a club thinks or suggests that it's better to have an emergency procedure whenever they're saving, we'll always support it, but here's only one genetic suggestion, uh, that emergency procedure should be an exception, not a rule because of these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16919	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1-2610/16, of 10.10.2016. (law in second reading) The House College, working as a commission, failed to reach agreement on the bill's proposal. The compliance report you received, no debate on this agenda point. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Governance Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017. (law in first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16940	Mr. Chairman. The Commission unanimously supported this report, and I would like to point out in particular something highlighted on page 9. Reports, thus the Financial Plan of the Independent Commission for 2017, determined in the amount of travel expenses of 15,000, contractual and other services of 41,000 KM, and then said – Contracted and other services relate to the payment of fees to members of the Independent Committee. In 2016, the allocations for fees were significantly reduced because in 17.11.2015, the Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted, on the basis of which the fees were significantly reduced. The annual budget reduction index of the Independent Commission for 2016 is cca 300% compared to 2015, compared to 2014 even 350% lower. Financial plan of the Independent Commission for 2016 set at 125,000 KM and reached at 34.000 KM. So one single institution saves 100,000 KM just because fees are not paid for work during working hours and because they are paid at a maximum amount of 475 KM per month. I'm very glad that the Independent Commission pointed this out here, and it's so positive even though the people who wrote this report have been reduced. This shows one social responsibility on their part that they highlighted this in such a positive light. Also, at the same time, this shows us how good that Law was. And I welcome some of these benches including Mr. Sokolović when there were attempts to make exceptions, etc., I remember then Mr. Sokolović said, let's let time show how this works. And here's the time it shows how this works. One single institution saves 100,000 marks, 300% compared to the previous year and 350% compared to 2014. Time will only show how much these savings are when all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are looked at, preliminary data I have suggest they are working on annual savings of around 2 million marks annually, annually, so, 2 million marks. For 2 million marks, Bosnia and Herzegovina can buy an embassy building in a smaller country each year. In addition to monitoring how much these savings are on an annual basis for all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will also be interested in where these money goes, because they're going somewhere. So these 100,000 marks that were not paid for fees to the members of this Commission went somewhere in the 2017 budget because the budget was not reduced, the framework was monitored and the budget remained the same, but that money went somewhere. And I'll really be interested in where he went, because we didn't do anything if we made millions of savings, and then someone, uh, gets more expensive cars, gets more cars, 39 gets more cars, etc., etc., just using one of the possible examples. So this money needs to be rerouted to one quality, one quality direction. And I thank all those who supported this, especially those who refused to make exceptions. If we get a proposal from the finance ministry to make exceptions for 8 or 10 institutions, as far as they're planning, it'll lead to an exception to the exception, on the exception, and then we'll eventually go back to what we did before and we won't have any of those 2 million savings. So, I welcome this section of the Report and I call on all other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that write such reports that they also point out the amount of savings, because it really looks impressive when you see 300% and 350%, respectively, compared to the previous two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16941	Thank you. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16942	Well, I've come to the hearing, and I'm going to kind of streamline this report with Mr. Arnaut's views. Therefore, conclusion 4 at the very end of this report is – it is necessary for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to enable the Independent Commission to work in accordance with its legal powers, which means its primary tasks, which are visits to criminal and correctional institutions, which is why restrictions should be lifted on the Committee established by the decision of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs number and so on. So we can save 34,000 more in a way to end this commission because its basic task is to bypass criminal and correctional institutions. The commission gets its fee, quite politely, 475 and some marks on the basis of having a session once a month. The commission is likely, from his long name, to come, formed to tour criminal and correctional institutions. In this report, in its final conclusion, the Committee tells us that he, in a way, has made it difficult and disabled on the basis of the decision of the Administrative Commission, and that decision is based on what you know. So the savings are possibly even bigger, abolishing the commissions that we think are unnecessary. I welcome the savings, but finding a balance between savings and the need to do a certain job is a real rationality and a real racio, and that should be achieved. I will vote in favour of this Report, including this point 4, whichever repercussion is to adopt this Report with this point 4, as it is to our Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs. What exactly does that mean? I'm not a member of this committee where the report is explained, I don't even know, I guess the Commission has a problem with the cost of bypassing criminal and correctional institutions, institutions, and that's his basic job. Otherwise, if he can't do his basic work, it would be good to put him out of business.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16943	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16944	Well, yeah, he's just blaming the quote. So, one is compensation, and the other is travel expenses. And if you have carefully read what I have been calling for, and then it is referred again to what they are talking about, travel costs have been increased slightly compared to previous years and have been increased with 40 goals, by this, this Commission, and have been increased precisely with the aim of enabling them to visit criminal and correctional institutions where they have jurisdiction. And that's just fine. So there is nothing disputed that if a commission needs its members to travel to the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina or abroad to carry out travel expenses in accordance with their obligation, that is, with their responsibilities. And they did just that, so they slightly increased their travel costs, i.e. expenses for their travel expenses, but significantly, as I said, in measure 300 and 350%, they cut the fees. And the fee of 475 marks, in no way or in any case, prevents the members of the Commission from travelling to the correctional offices, because they also have an item concerning travel expenses, and travel expenses include transportation and accommodation if they are to be visited at night, and at the end of the daily period, but the fee of 475 marks on which they are even obtained and the daily fees is more than justifiable. 475 marks, we can't talk here about eliminating something when the fee is 475 marks. That is more than enough in a country like Bosnia and Herzegovina. And as for their travel expenses if they are needed, and in the case of this Commission, they definitely are, because their basic task is to visit the criminal-registration offices in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I urge the Administrative Commission to meet them there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16945	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 29th agenda, Ad. 29. Work report and financial report of the BiH Post Office for 2016, Act No 01,02-16-1-598/17, of 27.02.2017. You got the report. The House College has designated the Commission for Transport and Communications as competent to consider the report. The committee responsible submitted its opinion on 20.03.2017. The Commission unanimously accepted the report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 30, Ad. 30. Information on the creation of a bill on the ban on the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees (realisation of the parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 9th session of the House of Representatives, held on 25.03.2015.) Act No 01,02-02-1-562/17 of 22.02.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16948	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I just want to point out a few facts even though at this point there's no one from...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16949	There is, there is, Mrs. Semiha Borovac is absent, but there is, a representative of the Ministry is present here. That's what I was told, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16950	So, I was right when I tried to say before you interrupted me that there was no one by the Ministers of the Council of Ministers, not even their deputies, is there, or is there a deputy from that ministry. But let's put that aside now. Here in this information there are simple things that are not actually responding, and I have to warn you. So in this information under number one, it is said that it is still an initiative of one MP. I have already made it very clear at one of the previous sessions, it is no longer an initiative of MPs, it has been my initiative until a moment before the debate on it was held within the committees and finally at the House. The moment the predstavnički of Representatives declared itself, and in this case accepted such a proposal, it became a proposal of the House of Representatives and its initiative. Therefore, once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is treated as Parliament's decision. The second thing, interestingly, that in the debate that followed, the only one who was called on behalf of Parliament to participate in the debate, as it stands in this Information, is Parliament's Prodanović. Parliament adopted, and you called for the working group to be part of a man who was in the minority who did not vote in favour of the proposal, which is a story for himself. So again with this subject and this Information, I draw attention to two things. First, that Parliament's decision must be implemented and that the ministry is not resolutely competent to correct Parliament's decision, only this House can do so in the way it has adopted the proposal. And another thing, it would be fair to say who is opposed, if there is an opponent, to such an idea that Bosnia and Herzegovina will receive the Law on the ban on causing national, religious, racial and any other hatred.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16951	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 31, that's it, Ad. 31. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of the procedure for selecting four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-224-8/17, since 1603.2017. 42 On 16 March 2017, the Interim Joint Commission submitted a report in the procedure setting out a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency. The proposal for a ranking list is as follows: Momčilo Poljić, Sanja Bijakšić, Kodrić Kodrić and Zlato Kundurović. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point 32, Ad. Thirty-two. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-50-14-376/17, dated 06.02.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16956	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Dear Representative Denis Bećirević reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16957	Thank you. So, I support what the esteemed colleague Džaferović was saying. However, given that the agenda item is addressed and refers to the Code I know that part of it is not in line with the agenda of what I am going to talk about but it is certainly the content of this debate. MPs who do not attend House of Representatives are not just about breaking the Codex. Therefore, if a debate is opened on the Joint Committee on Human Rights, I think that, in addition to the relevant members we specified in the Code, it is necessary to bear in mind what the Rules of Procedure prescribes in this regard. I just, therefore, want to draw attention to Article 7 and Article 10 where it decidently states that these are not only the rights but the duties of MPs in the House of Representatives, of course, and 44 delegates in the House of Peoples, to attend the session. So, no, we didn't make it clear to the Rules of Procedure as a right but as a duty of MPs. In this sense, then, just to supplement what counterpart Džaferović was talking about when the Codex was also discussed in the context of the debate, the business obligations that are very clear on this issue are also in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16958	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16959	I thank the chairman. Me first and personally, but even if someone comes from the club that, so I don't think there's any leftovers, no dating, etc., I can openly support what you said. We believe that attending sessions is important not only because of the work and continuity of work, not only at a given session, but also because of the continuity of work from the session to the session, but also because of respect for the dignity of this House, but perhaps, but also most importantly, it is definitely the most important because of respect for those whose votes we all sit here. So, if it's a lot once a month, and unfortunately once a month, because if we look at the practice of other countries, including countries in the region, and I've quoted these data, we have a catastrophicly small number of sessions, even when you take, when you add everything, when you take the complex constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you add up the entity parliaments and this state, we have less than the Croatian Parliament, the Serbian Assembly, about Slovenia and not to speak, etc., etc. Even Montenegro is ahead of us with, with a much smaller number, with a population like Sarajevo's Montenegro ahead of us by the number of held sessions of their parliament, even when you add up two entity and one state. As far as the Codex itself is concerned, the one thing that I am, to be honest with you, only after the Codex has been adopted, has one really big flaw, and that's that the only way to sanction someone on the violation of the Codex is for one of their colleagues to report it. Therefore, an official application against MPs or delegates by another MP or delegate is necessary. That in itself might not be a problem, but you have one really fundamental problem that I think even discriminates against the opposition, which is that if the competent authority, which is the Joint Commission, does not accept the application filed by whoever reported it, then may decide to sanction whoever filed the application. And in fact, you can have, not only the counter-opposition of the opposition but you can also have an action against some MPs on the basis of some personalaffinities, etc., etc. So, if we're going to change the Code, and I think this report indicates that we should go to the Codex, because it's weird, and I can even say it's unacceptable that a year after we have the Commission's report, which is what it is, which is that there was no breach of the Codex at all, which is absolutely incorrect. There was a violation of the Code but the fact that the Commission had no opportunity to decide because there was no notification of any kind. Here, only the arrivals in jeans are an example of not going further in violation of the Codex. I did not want to point out that I was not making this difficult situation difficult for you while you were reading this agenda, so the Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement, etc., we lost the quorum three or four times during your reading, there were less than 22 in the hall. And I find it odd that the opposition is basically holding a quorum here. One part of the opposition says it will not come, but that all opposition now comes out the parliamentary majority has no quorum, and that is really unacceptable. Here's just a head count, you know who's from which political options and you see that the opposition here actually provides quorum. And it's unacceptable, and it's particularly unacceptable that we lose the quorum during the session in three or four 45 times. And so that this is not all that remains in this debate today, so that we don't wait for the amendments to the Codex, etc., why, here's a colleague mentioned the Administrative Commission for a moment, why don't we act on the basis and in accordance with those mechanisms that are available to us. The Administrative Commission, as we all know, has unlimited powers to decide on granting privileges, the Administrative Commission is making severances, and I have already pointed out several times, the Administrative Commission, I support this proposal by my colleagues on the abolition of these jubilee awards, but the Administrative Commission is the one who decides to award jubilee awards, the Administrative Commission is the one who decides to make fees for temporary commission work. The situation is so bizarre, I was appointed recently by the decision of the House at the Interim Commission for Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure and I should have written a request to the Administrative Commission that it does not give me a fee for membership in that Commission, because I think it is insane to get a membership fee in the Interim Commission, it is my job, this, and then I got a solution from the Administrative Commission that I have the right to compensation but that it will not be given to me at my request. I therefore suggest to the Administrative Commission, and I am sure, that the Administrative Commission has powers, not in terms of wages, but on the matter of pause, if the salaries were to be touched, it is necessary to change the Law on Salaries, which we all, especially as lawyers know, but when it comes to me, it is not even clear on what basis it is paid at all except for the decision of the Administrative Commission. But we've had situations that we don't have a House session in a given month, I think it was August last year, and the cobwebs are worth it, and I'm not saying that we have a situation where someone doesn't come to the House, and the cobweb is worth it. So, here, if we're really going to do something about this, I'm calling on the Administrative Commission to act on this, that if he really wants to sanction for non-compliance, then at least he doesn't pay off in the case, here, in case of non-compliance with the criteria that he sets himself, but let him at least establish some criteria, but it's really weird that the cobweb is paying off and someone isn't coming to the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16960	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Borislav Bojić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16961	Very briefly, since there is no need to apply for the discussion, just to point out the fact that this information is, therefore, this report, however, we have a procedure here for the violation of the Code, it is being launched, the distinguished colleagues, with an application that can be filed, which can be submitted by any member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so each of us, there has been no application. The application is submitted to the Joint Committee on Human Rights in writing with an explanation indicating a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's not what happened. It's true that there's been a way into the jeans, it's true that there's been a lot of things, our Codex has prescribed a way to deal with it, and we have what we have ahead of us. If there is a need to amend the Code, then such an initiative comes before the Parliamentary Assembly, the procedure for amending the Code, establishing new rules in the Code, and then we bring it in. This kind of initiative, I don't want to challenge it, none of those who heard it here, but this is not the subject of today's debate, we are today considering what we have as material delivered by the Commission. So, there was no report of any damage to the Codex. I do not say that there have been no injuries, therefore, the behaviour of a number of MPs in terms of clothing, etc., of course I have had the opportunity to observe the public speaker here, the distinguished guests who came in very inappropriately dressed in the 46 Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but none of us sitting here have submitted, nor have I, submitted any kind of written objection to the non-respect of the Codex. So I'd recommend we go back to the subject. There's no kind of injury at this point, because they weren't there. If there's an initiative to amend the Code, I'm telling my colleagues to get into the process, and they know how to get into the process of amending the Code, once we've established the new rules, then we'll act that way. Here, it's the contents of my address.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16962	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16963	Well, a sentence has been mentioned here several times, which is that the Administrative Commission is giving something. I am a member of the Administrative Commission and I have given nothing to anyone, nor have I intended to give anything to anyone, but I have acted in accordance with the acts under which the Administrative Commission is acting. When we change those acts, we will act on other acts. As long as these acts exist, members of the Administrative Commission are obliged to act on these acts. Everything else is a matter of individuality for each of us, whether or not they will exercise their right to do so. Whether non-exploitation of its right politically in public will try and do so, here is a political story or not, it is a matter of each of us, but none of the members of the Administrative Commission have the right to act contrary to the acts adopted by the House, means contrary to the law and against the rules adopted by the Administrative Commission. In particular, no one has the right to question a majority opinion in minority opinion. He has a right of course, we have a lot of rights, we say things here at these sessions, saying that we have a lot of rights, but we're telling the truth, that's how we should use the term that by acting on the acts some colleagues took the right to act. Imagine condemning someone for acting by act. Well it's really, it's a legal notsens even for lawyers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16964	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16965	Thank you. This all said by colleague Novaković is nonsens and legal and any other possible, especially for a member of the Administrative Commission who should know this matter better than I do. I have made it very clear – there are some things you cannot do as an Administrative Commission to touch, some rights if they are given by law, because I am very clear. So, you can't pay because it's regulated by the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but here's what I pointed out, that the Administrative Commission can limit or fully abolish the fee for working on temporary commissions and other bodies of one or both of the Houses, or both. And why can you do that? Because this right is based entirely on the decision of the Administrative Commission. So, the Administrative Commission has decided for two thousand and some years that MPs and delegates who participate in the work of temporary commissions, but not permanent ones, means only temporary ones, belong to the right to compensation. Then she changed that decision when that law of mine came into force that this fee was maximum of 475 marks, before it was much larger. But these are all your 47 acts. So it's totally nonsensical and legal and each other, to use your terminology, so that you can't change the act you brought yourself. I guess that's clear to you now that you've notsens one said. So, if something the Administrative Commission adopts, some act, then the Administrative Commission can also change it and put it out of force. And that's what I'm talking about. Also, no legal provision is based on the decision of the Administrative Commission, etc., etc. So, what I have indicated is that if there is no will for the majority, and this club will always find that there is a will, but if most of these others have no will to change the law, then at least let the Administrative Commission amend these acts, so that it will abolish some of the things that it has brought itself, which are not based on the provisions of any law or any act larger than the administrative commission act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16966	Thank you. Here, since I don't have any colleagues, I signed up for a wrong quote, so let me. _________(?) You have a word. Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, MPs, distinguished guests at this session. I signed up briefly for the correction of the wrong quote. I don't think there's any place for a debate like this to talk about legal nonses at all. If we talk about it, then we know where and how we need to talk. I am also a member of the Administrative Commission and in the previous meeting with the House of People, and also now this time at the House of Representatives, and I can only tell all MPs that, here is counterpart Novaković, who is with me, and other colleagues, that we are trying to make decisions in the Administrative Commission based on the law and procedures. I will remind you that there is a law that has been passed by this Parliamentary Assembly, we stick to it, and there are decisions that have been made by the Council of Ministers under that law, and decisions apply and, based on those decisions, certain decisions are made, or solutions. My colleagues to Arnaut when he said that he had a solution to it I'll explain, but it's actually for everyone else, meaning the right that's defined today on one decision or on the law, so it's everyone's right, and someone has the right to a personal request to give up that right. And the solution you've got is based exclusively on the Administrative Procedure Act, none of us members in the Administrative Commission, or in someone else, whether someone will come to mind for three or five days to sue this institution. Therefore, a solution has been made to your personal request, there is the right to object and appeal, but it has been brought and respected. So please don't, I hope and believe that the Administrative Commission will continue to work in accordance with the laws, decisions and procedures, of course and those it adopts. They are made it is known that, according to the Rules of Procedure, until it is changed that way today and in accordance with this, we have reached a solution. If someone has a way of reviewing it, we are not the ones who can in any way change the decision of the Administrative Commission, and it can certainly be changed by administrative disputes, this one, and means further in procedures. So we do it where it is, but if we're up to any changes to the rules and procedures, we know how and where it changes. Here, thank you very much. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16968	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16969	Thank you very much. Well, I guess, uh, we speak a language that we all understand. I said and talked about the incorrect quote, i.e. the term "give" and I was just talking about it, nothing else, about any possibilities or inability of the Administrative Commission, but the Administrative Commission is not giving anything, and I am not giving anything to anyone. I wish I could decide if I'm giving someone something here in this House something I wouldn't give, but I can't decide when there's an act I have to decide on there. Therefore, whether or not there will be, of course, an Administrative Commission is able to amend the act. These six months we've been dealing with acts now and we're looking for solutions. It's clear how the Administrative Commission decides, I guess it's clear to everyone. Of course all of us here have the opportunity to change the law, and that's how it's decided. So there's no need to tell me what I know and what we all know and what the public knows. So I'm just asking not to use the term giving, because it's not giving and nothing else, and in the future I won't give anything to anyone. Here, thank you, I can give what's mine, and this, and what mine wouldn't give to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16970	Thank you very much. Correction of the false allegation, the esteemed representative of Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16971	Thank you. My kolega Novaković knows very well from this and from all my discussions that I never talk about the individual members of Parliament, the commission or anything, I was talking about the commission as a body. The fact is that, here, when concretely, and distinguished colleagues Krišto, we all know that the fee for working on temporary commissions is based solely on the decision of the Administrative Commission that such compensation belongs to Members of temporary committees. I'm not saying that this fee is illegal, it's based, based on an act, legal act of the Administrative Commission. What I'm saying all the time is that the Administrative Commission that adopted this act can also put this act out of force or impose some restrictions on it of a greater or less nature, etc. So, in this sense, it absolutely states that the Administrative Commission, here to be clear, as a body and not one of its individual members, when it adopts an act establishing a right, and is not obliged to establish it by some higher act, then the Administrative Commission, as a body, gives something to someone, because the Administrative Commission, which established that right, was not obliged to establish it because no higher act is legally binding on it. When the Administrative Commission finds that right without any doubt, we can say that the Administrative Commission has found that it gives something to someone. And according to what Mr. Džaferović is, and so all this debate has begun, to find some moduso that we have a slightly greater response to these sessions, to find some modus to make people, if here come let's not sanction, to be wronged to be in the sittings. And all I was saying was that it wouldn't take long, so we wouldn't change the codes, the laws, etc., let's start with the Administrative Commission that can do all this very quickly and easily solve the bar for starters. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16972	Thank you very much. Debate, distinguished representative Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16973	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course a little grudge, everything, everything, but discussions about this nobody, what's administrative, what's not, what's what, we're here about the Codex, and these discussions that we've had don't have touch points with the Codex. We are in the phase of changing and supplementing the rules of our work. In the context of the amendments and the addition of the rules of our work or the drafting of the Rules of Procedure, it is very simple that those who are, or who are elected to the commission who should do so, we can implement an upgrade to the Rules of Procedure which will contain what is necessary, because what we do here is not a good will. If that's a good will, then let them leave it to those whose obligation is by something called the election result or the will of the citizens who chose them to represent them here. Those who chose us, but all together, we who don't stick to... work, respect for work, apply, so that I say it a little rough, slap, we cheat on them, we lie, because we don't do it on their behalf. And now you have legislation-law, as my colleague from the SBB says, the Labour Act. There are employees here. What is the obligation of employees under the Labour Act? Its obligation is to enforce the law of the intended obligation from its place of employment. Our workplace is here, here, and there's no more kodeks, no more Codex, these are the commitments you've made by accepting that you're someone who represents the interests of those who chose you. So the overall record, now I'm talking not only about who formally sits here, because we have those who haven't said a word since this Parliament was put together, but those who don't come, I have that I don't have to list them now, that's what the gentlemen of the College should do to print out so that we can see how many people are present, is not, how present, who are actually absolutely not fulfilling the commitments they made on the day they took their oath to the BiH Constitution, or they are doing counter-constitutional It's a fact. It is our constitutional obligation to fulfil our obligations as Members of Parliament as a whole, not to be asked here by one sense that we all support something, it is not to be called here that we are all in the same basket, but to make this Parliament work at full capacity that you are bound to do. While my colleague Damir of the SBB spoke like that, preparing for something called the Rules of Procedure on Labour, Amendments and Supplements, etc., I have read the Rules of Procedures on the work of all our neighbouring countries, but also some who are wider and I suggest Damir, here you and I, to make these changes, but I know that others will not immediately support them, where they directly influence MPs unless they fulfil their obligations. And on the other hand, if he does not participate unjustly, I speak in the physical sense of the word, he is not present, unwarrantedly so many and so many you have parliaments in which he ceases his status as MPs by automatism. So there's more modality. We must do that this Parliament, but not only this Parliament, but all parliaments, have something called the full quantum of work,... moving and that's where it all ends. And yet another, not only is the behavior here in this room and the way you treat yourself only in this room, but by what is the definition of a representative, a representative in the state, because don't forget we're the biggest organ elected in this country, the rest are set up, the rest of us are setting up, not us, as we behave outside this hall, not only in this room, the MP is 24 hours a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16974	Thank you. 50 Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16975	Thank you, Chairman. The Association of Today's Discussions. We are a Parliament whose role is of benefit to the country and citizens. We are now increasingly marked by the form and the result is lagging behind. What did the citizens of Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina get today from our meeting? Minimum. And what would be better if this was the fill-up of MPs 100 percent, and there isn't a single minister, and can we work in a way that the Council of Ministers is constantly obstructing us and we don't have that necessary sparring to be effective in the task that we have? I am the advocate of defining the responsibility of all who participate in this process, but the freedom of the elected MP is much greater than the freedom of the minister who allows himself not to attend the session of the Parliament who elected him, who... is his suitable role, and this process fully marks the marginalisation of the Council of Ministers of this Parliament. Look at today, look at any session, and you'll see that we're actually disabled from being more efficient in that interaction. We need to generate responsibility for us to set a line that is absolutely clear, our responsibility to the citizens, and the responsibility of the Council of Ministers towards us. It is gone today and it is increasingly marked by the form that is harmful to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been generated for many years, we have political power, we have executive power, in Parliament raise your hands and dissension. That's not what this country needs. When we talk about our responsibility, too, we must first ask for service and answer to those whom we have chosen.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16976	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16977	Thank you very much. Here, uh, I think this debate has taken a while, so I'll take a little while. At the same time, when she considered the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Administrative Commission, she made one recommendation that the Parliamentary Assembly adopt a law on the rights and duties of MPs. On the basis of this obligation by Parliament, this Parliament has made a decision and has tasked the Council of Ministers to deliver the law in the procedure. And if we're looking for a way to settle this, then that's the way, so the law on the rights and duties of the MPs. Međutima, when the law on the rights and duties of MPs is mentioned today, it always comes down, primarily in the media, and then in a colleague here in Parliament, on rights and never on duty. In these public debates, when such an initiative occurs, it happens to us immediately to think about early retirement, I don't know what doesn't happen, etc., etc. Of course, I'm not going to suggest that that conclusion be made again because it exists, but I would like to say that if there is already that conclusion, then I would like to remind the Council of Ministers that it exists and that, by that conclusion, they are obliged to propose in the procedure this law which will define this matter of absence from the session. In my own time, I think it was in 2007 or 2008, I suggested something similar where it had all these provisions for not coming, etc., and it did not receive that support from Parliament. And I didn't spend it this politically much, a lot, it was just an attempt that didn't score. And when it comes to the Administrative Commission, I don't know people, I'm, I'm speaking publicly about it, I don't understand why someone is constantly trying something different, I've said 51 in public -- I'm not voting on the Administrative Commission for any reduction in the rights of MPs and delegates they have the right to in the Council of Ministers of People in the same, or adequate positions. So, that's, now it's my right as a member of the Administrative Commission, I'm talking about it publicly, I don't need anyone to provoke me to say it. So, as long as the committees are entitled to the Council of Ministers, I will not vote on the Administrative Commission that this right is not a commission made up of MPs, because I don't think I should spit on the parliamentary mandate in any way, nor do I want to lower this mandate so lowly beyond the levels of any deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, service chiefs, etc. I don't want to, and you're interpreting it any way you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16978	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've applied a few times, so I've given up the discussion, I wouldn't really want to commend this Parliament except for the fact that in this House we don't have those pictures that are in the parliaments of neighbouring countries, not to say throwing chairs, papers, forced carrying out sessions and some other incidents, but this is also a very, very big and very serious problem for us, not having enough numbers in the work of Parliament, and not just Parliament, but also working bodies of Parliament. And that if we don't sanction in the time ahead, that problem will be even more pronounced. And in that sense, I fully agree with those who have spoken, because it is also one of the most important, if perhaps not a more significant act of activity for each of us in Parliament... in Parliament's bodies. It can't be sabotaged, here I have examples in committees where I am, we're very often at the limit of the quorum and we don't know whether this session is going to be held or not, maybe these commissions aren't attractive, maybe some of them are attractive, whatever you want, they don't have that problem, but we really have to do it as soon as possible and urgently pay attention to it and solve it. Is it sanctions, whether it's any kind of sanctions, whether it's a public warning, whether it's bringing it out to the public that might hurt more than someone financially or materially gets sanctioned, but I really think it's totally inadmissible, because our mandate consists of all these activities and we can't choose the activities that we're going to participate in, and we're not going to participate in. Here, thanks, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16980	Thank you. Chairman Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16981	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I've had one brief discussion, now I've called within these two minutes, I have no other option. So we have a formed commission, so the Working Group for Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure. Today we are discussing the application of the Codex and we have a Human Rights Commission that is competent to take care of the application of the Codex. I think this question that I've been talking about and that we've been talking about all the time, so the relationship between the legislators and the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Procedure and that, in part, the Electoral Law. But just so far, what we have in Parliament, so we on the Constitutional Commission, I'm sitting there, here is Mr Arnaut, at the next session to make our contribution to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we're going to propose our amendments, and I think we should go with concrete suggestions to make this thing right. And the Codex Implementation Commission, so let the Human Rights Commission take account within its powers of what it takes to change the Codex to bring this thing to a higher level. So, it's not just a matter of political responsibility, a relationship with work, there's a function here, and there's a working relationship, so for those MPs who, we all have a function, and basically we all have a working relationship here, and we can't tell that our responsibility is just political, however we behave during a four-year term, because four years are a long period, but then we're going to leave the citizens in the elections with an opportunity to plead. We need to settle the question of labour relations, so work-legal status and respect for what is a working-legal status. That's why I got up to talk, and I don't care about anyone in particular, so I'm not interested in any reason either, and neither is the one that puts this particular situation in Parliament, so I've been thinking about this for a long time, and I think that we people need to impose sanctions on an unwarranted absence from the session both Parliament and the Commission. It's a violation and working duties aren't just a political assessment. That's it, thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the point, before we move to point 35, I suggest that a joint discussion on points 35 to 37 be held, given that it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of the agreement. The vote on the motion to unite the debate, but don't let us vote there's no colleague Krišto here, I withdraw this proposal we won't be able to agree and we'll leave the agenda points for the next session. Let's, or we'll cross, withdraw the proposal and move on to the 35th agenda, Ad. 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Office for Youth Cooperation from the Western Balkan countries, No: 01,02-05-2-612/17, of 28.02.2017 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 36, Ad. 36. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement for Iterreg IPA CBC Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro 2014-2020 CCI 2014TC1615CB004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, issue: 01,02-05-2-651/17, dated 06.03.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16988	It's all round two now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16989	So 19 for, 6 against, 5 abstentions. There's no... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Again. Let's focus a little bit. We repeat the vote of item 7, so we vote in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 8 against, 1 abstention. 55 There is no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity, the law was passed. We're going to point 8. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Is this the second round too?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16991	It's the first round.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16992	And what about up here was also the first round. I see, so wait, we're going back slowly, sorry, there's been a mistake. I see something doesn't sit on me, I remember everything, this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16993	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16994	Hold on, hold on, hold on. So we're going back to point 7 and voting, because I've been miswritten here, I'm canceling this vote on point 7. Let it be written down. We're going back to point seven again, because I was wrongly written here to do something else, and I remember very well that this could be just the first reading. So is reading to the secretary first?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16995	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16996	So, first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16997	We're voting on the law...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16998	Round one?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u16999	It's not the first round, but we're voting on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17000	Please, point 7. We're voting on the Commission's report...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17001	We're voting on the bill now, we've adopted... 56
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17002	Please, we are voting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we have adopted an emergency procedure. And this is the first round of voting, right? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 9 against, 1 abstention. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Are we going to the second round right now or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17003	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17004	Right in the second round. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 21 for, 10 against, no abstentions. There is no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity, I find that we have passed this law. We're going to point 8. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Sit down here, uh, next to me and follow me well, don't let me follow you. So, we are voting under point 8. on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We vote, therefore, on the adoption of the bill and this is the first round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 4 votes against, 6 abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Bride?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17005	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17006	I'll get right to it. Okay. Prepare for the second round. Vote now. 21 votes for, 3 against, 7 abstentions. 57 There is a general majority and there is no 2/3 against any entity, I realize that we have passed this Law. We move to item 9 of the agenda – Report from the Commission on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, (legal in second reading). We are voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, one against, no abstentions. Now he's got the entity majority, but it's important he doesn't have 2/3 against it. So this is, we passed this law, because this was a vote on the bill's proposal in the second reading in the second round. There's no further, so we adopted this. Let's go to point 10. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Governance Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut (law in first reading). The law is in first reading. We are voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 22 votes for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, so I'm realizing that we own this law in our first reading. Point 11. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, (the law in first reading). The law is in first reading. We are voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 votes for, 1 against, 6 abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, but now there's a general majority, but that doesn't matter, it's important that there's no 2/3 against it, so we can figure out that we own this bill in our first reading. We are going to item 12 of the agenda – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Emergency Procedure Act). We are voting on the adoption of the bill by emergency procedure in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 votes for, 11 against, no abstentions. There is no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity, nor does the Federation 2/3 against it, so we passed this law. 58 Let's go to point 13. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice. We're voting on the adoption of the report in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 votes for, no problem, three abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, so we adopted this report. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 23 votes for, 5 against, 3 abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Are we gonna get along right now or are we gonna get along later?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17007	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17008	It's an ex post adjustment. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for the conclusion of the representative Mensura Beganović. Prepare to vote. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17009	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17010	Okay, okay, I know. If they say I'll read to them, that's no problem. So 18 is for, 8 versus, 5 abstentions. We don't have an entity majority from the Republika Srpska entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17011	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-23-0.u17012	Post-adjustment, okay. We are going to item 14 of the agenda – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016. We vote on adopting the report on work in the second round of voting. 59 Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes in, three against. There's no 2/3 against any entity, I'm guessing we adopted this paper report. Let's go to point 15. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2016. We vote on the report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 votes for, no objection, no abstentions. There is no 2/3 against any entity, I understand that we adopted a report on the work of a parliamentary military commissioner for 2016. We move to the 16th item of the agenda – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017. We are voting on receiving the knowledge of the Work Plan in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for, 8 against, 5 abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, I realize that we adopted this one, received the knowledge of the Work Plan in the second round of voting. Let's go to point 17. – Report by the Commission of the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Commission's work report on conflict of interest. We vote on the adoption of the Commission's report on the Commission's work to decide on a conflict of interest in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. There is no 2/3 against any entity, I find that we adopted this report on the Commission's work to decide on a conflict of interest. Point 18. – Report by the Commission on the work of the Constitutional House of Representatives for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 18.01.2017, b) Report on the work of the Commission on the Foreign Affairs of the Representatives' House for 2016, issue: 01/2-50-3-181/17, of 15.02.2017, c) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs at the Representative's House for 2016, issue: 01/3-50-3-181/17, of 07.02.2017, d) Report on the work of the Commission on the financing and budget of the House of Representatives for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 24.01.2017, of 07.02.2017.) Report on the work of the Commission for the House of Justice:17-17. We vote on adopting work reports in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. There's no 2/3 against any entity, I find that we've adopted reports on the work of permanent committees at the House of Representatives. We're going to point 19. – Report by the Commission on the work of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-14-108/17, of 11.01.2017, c) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 03/3-50-14-108/17, issue 01,02-50-14-108/17, of 11.01.2017, c) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 03-50-108/17, of 02.02.2017, d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration for 2016, issue: 03/4-50-108/17, of 03-50-14-108/17, of 02.02.2017. We vote on adopting work reports in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 votes to, one against, three abstentions. There is no 2/3 against any entity, so I realize that we have adopted reports on the work of the permanent joint committees of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly home. Point 20. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Report on the implementation of the recommendations of the Ombudsman for Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina regarding the Special Report on the Accessibility of Labour Spaces of Legislative Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Persons with Disabilities – applicant: The Institution of the Ombudsman for Human Rights of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the report in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, 31 for, no problem, no abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, I'm guessing we adopted this report. Moving to point 21. – The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2014, the Central Election Commission's material. We're voting on the adoption of the report in the second round of voting. 61 prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 votes for, no problem, seven abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, we have a general majority and I realize we adopted this report. Let's go to point 22. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Borjana Krišto on the debate on the Proposal for a Resolution on the desire for progress of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer: MEP Saša Magazinović. The text of the proposal for a conclusion, you know, I propose, is said in the text of the proposal that before the vote on the motion for a resolution, predstavnički House of Representatives declares whether the proposal for a resolution on the desire for progress of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by Saša Magazinović, is in accordance with Article 163. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Yeah, that's it. We're voting on a proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Borjanin, Borjanin's proposal for a conclusion, colleague Krišto, I apologize, Deputy Chairman. So here's 20 votes for, 6 against, 5 abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, I find that we've adopted Mrs. Krišto's conclusion that we've declared this contrary to the Rules of Procedure, so we don't plead any further. Moving to point 23. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on Information on the Annual Training Plan and training of members and units of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2017, the BiH Ministry of Defence material. We are voting on receiving information in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 28 for, no problem, 3 abstentions. There's no 2/3 against any entity, there's a general majority, I realize we've received information in the second round. Let's go to point 24. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Information Ministry of Defence of BiH on the Defence Review document (under the conclusion of the BiH Presidency). We are voting on receiving information in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, 4 against, 4 abstentions. 62 There's no 2/3 against any entity, I realize we've received this information. Point 25. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a decision on the discharge of an independent board member as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure. We vote on the adoption of the Decision on the discharge of Miroslav Škorić as a member of the Independent Committee in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 votes for, no problem, six abstentions. There is no 2/3 against any entity, I understand that we have adopted the Decision on the discharge of Miroslav Škorić as a member of the Independent Committee. We're going to point 26. – Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the granting of approval for ratification: (a) First amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on the granting of financial assistance to the Water and Waste Water Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II. - the restoration and upgrade of the water supply and waste water system in the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica, material number: 01,02-05-2-157/17, from 16/01.2017, b) Amendment No 1 to the Treaty on Financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, completed 05.10.2011 in Luxembourg and 25.10.2011 in Sarajevo – The Hospital project in RS, material number: 01,02-05-2-158/17, of 16.01.2017., c) The Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the field of tourism, material No 01,02-05-203/17, of 30.01.2017., d) The Agreement on the amendments between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Slovenia in the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the European Union of the EU, as well as part of Bosnia and the Republic of Slovenia. So we are voting on giving consent to ratifying these materials in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, 31 votes for, no votes against, no abstentions. There is no 2/3 against any entity, I realize that we have given consent to ratification under point 26, so under points (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (j) of today's agenda. Let's go to point 27. - The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the material with the label, confidentially. We're voting on the adoption of material in the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 votes for, 2 votes against, 5 abstentions. In the absence of two-thirds opposition from any entity, I find that we have adopted material in the second round of voting, this one under the term 'confidential'. Moving to point 28. – Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of BiH in criminal proceedings, foreign courts provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. We vote on the adoption of the report on the work of the Independent Commission with the recommendations set out in the Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 24 votes for, no votes against, seven abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we adopted the report on the work of the Independent Commission with the recommendations set out in the Report. Point 29. – Work report and financial report of the BiH Post Office for 2016. We are voting on the adoption of the Employment Report of the Postal Traffic Agency. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, without votes against, eight abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we have adopted a report on the Agency's work on postal traffic. 64 Point 30. – Information on the creation of a bill on the ban on the challenge and spread of national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees (realisation of the parliamentary initiative, adopted at the 9th session of the House of Representatives, held on 25.03.2015.). We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 votes in, 4 against, 3 abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we have received this information. Point 31. – Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency. We vote on the choice of Momčilo Poljić, Sanja Bijakšić, Sanjin Kodrić and Zlate Kundurović for members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 votes in, 7 against, 5 abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we have made this choice for four people. We're going to point 32. – Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people. We vote on the adoption of the conclusion on the appointment of Šemsudin Mehmedović, Nikola Lovrinović and Borislav Bojić in the Interim Joint Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 votes for, five against, six abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we have made this choice. Point 33 is about the Unique Rules, we said there was no voting there. So, it will be at the next session with a new report from the Constitutional Legal Commission. Moving to point 34. – Assessment of the application of the Code of Conduct of MPs and delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, material of the Joint Commission for Human Rights. We are voting on adopting the Code of Conduct Assessment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 votes for, 3 against, 6 abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we've adopted this assessment. 65 We vote now on a proposal to make a statement on points 35 to 37 in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 votes for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, we decided to declare ourselves in the package. Point 35. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Office for Youth Cooperation from the Western Balkan countries. Point 36. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement for Iterreg IPA CBC Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro 2014-2020 CCI 2014TC1615CB004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission. Point 37. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Letters of Accession of the European Commission-Government Funding Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of the Action Programme for Cross-border Co-operation of Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, which Bosnia and Herzegovina joined on 28.03.2016. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 votes for, without votes against, without abstentions. With a sufficient entity majority from both entities, I find that we have given consent to ratification at points 35 to 37. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is how I conclude the 43rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I note that according to the Labour Calendar, a regular session was planned, with points of the agenda to come, 20.04.2017, and that one session was planned in the first half of April on the subject: State of the judiciary with a view to combating corruption, according to the conclusion of the College of the House of Representatives with a request for the delivery of information to the Council of Ministers. We've been doing that again today, so we've worked out that request of ours. We're looking for information, and when that information gets here, we're planning, if, therefore, it comes, and we're going to ask it to arrive, in the first half of April of the month, to hold one session with just that point of the agenda, about the situation in the judiciary with a view to fighting corruption. Regular session with these regular points will be, as I said, 20.04.2017. Thank you for your presence, for your cooperation, and I'll see you later. Session completed at 3:15 p.m.
