ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21607	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, continue the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. Guests are invited to continue the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH's Human Rights and Refugees Office has come to inform BiH that Minister Semiha Borovac will be prevented from attending the Continuation of the House, and that instead of the minister, Deputy Minister Predrag Jović will attend. BiH's communications and transport minister's office has received notice that Minister Ismir Jusko will not be able to participate in the session, and that instead of the minister, Saša Dalipagić will be present. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Justice Minister Nezir Pivić delivered a notice that Justice Minister Grubeša will not be able to attend the session. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that he will not be able to attend the session. The BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister's office has come to inform BiH that Minister Mirko Šarović will not be able to attend the session. According to the service logs, the session is present at this time, please the service to us, how much do we have?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21608	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21609	A lot of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21610	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21611	Enough MPs to be able to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21612	According to the records, we have 41 agents present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I would like to remind you that the extension of the 53rd session was held on 29 November 2017 and interrupted on 11th item of the agenda, which is – Declaration on the criteria for determining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo – Proposer: Representative Mladen Bosić, issue: 01-02-2524/17 of 25.10.2017. We are continuing to discuss this point. Representatives Borislav Bojić and Senad Šepić were registered for the debate at the previous session. 2 I'm opening a debate. We have registered, according to the record this time, whether Agent Borislav Bojić, just a moment please, remains for discussion, You should be the first to debate. At this point, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21613	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Krišto. I ask that this remark be included in the minutes on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, concerns the interruption of the work of this session. It has not been established that there is no quorum, no effort has been made to secure the quorum, therefore no break has been made during which the quorum would be secured, and that is all the Rules of Procedure. And I ask the Secretary of the House to include all these business interventions in the minutes from this session, given that I consider it not only a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, but also a harsh violation of the BiH Constitution and I am sorry that at least one of the three members of the College did not point to the fact that it is unacceptable for MPs to find out that the Interrupted Session of the House of Media has been interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21614	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for this observation that you said was business. You did not say in which way and which breach of the Rules of Procedure was made, and regarding the content to which the session was being interrupted, we held a session of the College and at the session of the College we interrupted the session and we told the services to inform our representatives through the clubs that the session was interrupted. Of course that's what some colleagues said, I contacted them, they said they'd give an immediate statement to the media, so you probably heard maybe that way, I'm not getting into it as to who was informed, but the session was interrupted at the College session. Borislav Bojić, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21615	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. In the context of what counterpart Arnaut mentioned, and since you allegedly hold very strongly to the Rules of Procedure and are always asking us to call on members, and you probably have your secretary who serves only you as the HDZ Club, and not this House, to warn you and to inform you pro-integratedly that Article 80. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, a session interruption, shall be ordered – if the Chairman of the House considers that he is unable to maintain order during the House session, he shall decide on its interruption as well as on the continuation of work, when conditions are obtained, so that the session interruption cannot last for more than an hour. Why am I bringing this up? Because my colleague Damir Arnaut at the previous session in November also asked when we didn't know what to do, asked for a break of 11 hours to continue tomorrow with the agenda, then neither you nor Mr. Šefik Džaferović as an excellent lawyer allowed it to say that there are no conditions, or that these are not the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't interrupt the session, but at the request of the Club, that is, the president of the Club, Staša Košarac, a half-hour break requested, and we all went on that break and came back after 15 days. So we have learned from the media that the session has been interrupted, that the chairman will not enter the white room and inform us that because of some breach of public order and peace, or that we are not able to discuss and conduct a debate here, or that, in accordance with this Rule of Procedure, Rule 80, something is wrong so that we can continue with the session. So, I request that it be noted that the chairman of the highest legislative body, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, was rudely violated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21616	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21617	I thank the chairman. Oh, while you're insisting, Article 73. The Rules of Procedure, which was also, uh, I could find out, but that member very clearly says that if there is no quorum, the chairman of the House determines a break of up to 60 minutes, during which he tries to secure the quorum. So, this fellow Bosić, who then changed you as deputy, first vice-president, did not do so, so I ask that this business intervention of mine be recorded in writing, that there has been, or my conclusion that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing, when you are already insisting on a specific member, so here's what I'm saying is that there is no member of the Rules of Procedure who gives the College the authority to interrupt the session without putting it to a vote or another alternative is to determine that there is no quorum in the session itself. So, even if he found out, what you say he did, then he acted past the Rules of Procedure. The only two options for stopping the session are that if a quorum is found to be missing or if something is put to the vote. None have been done, and it has been roughly broken, not only by the Rules of Procedure, but also by the Constitution of BiH, in that section that defines the quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21618	Thank you. Let everything be determined as part of it and of course it will be established. I repeat again, so at the College session, we interrupted the session and decided on a follow-up. As for the notice, all clubs have been notified of the session's interruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21619	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21620	Representative Senad Šepić, but Borislav Bojić needs first after..., please. Borislav Bojić, first debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21621	Thank you very much. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Several sentences concerning the Declaration itself, which in itself pointed out the need to hold a broad debate on the construction of road infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This Declaration I also experience that it will in no way affect decision-making when it comes to the construction of a highway that was negotiated earlier when it comes to, this, Serbian President, Mr Vučić, and the President of Turkey, and I am sure that in the eastern part of Republika Srpska, that part of the road will be built in the way the statesmen agreed in their talks. What I'm trying to say is that this Declaration is itself and has launched a debate that highways are built where there are most people, where there is the most need. And now the question is how do I say I come from Prijedor, 4 so Banja Luka, Prijedor, New City, what kind of interest we might have when it comes to building this highway and where we could have some kind of connection when it comes to highways? Namely, if Bosnia and Herzegovina were to opt for the construction of this road, which would practically cover the largest number of people in Republika Srpska, Brcko District and the Federation of BiH, this would practically create conditions, and I heard a statement by Mr. Vučić and Serbia's readiness to build on Serbia's cost of the road, part of the highway to Bijeljina. It's, if anything good came from this Declaration, then it's kind of a commitment, something that's for every kind of commendation and to say hello. I am convinced that there is also interest in us coming from the western part of Republika Srpska, so I come from Prijedor, and I believe that by building the Prijedor-Banja Luka highway, and already building the road Banja Luka – Doboj, of course Corridor 5c will come out of Šamac, if the road is built to Bijeljina, then Republika Srpska would remain to do part of the highway from Šamc to Brcko and that would be the strategic interest of us who come from these parts. So I welcome this kind of debate, and I think these discussions should be conducted in a way that, among other things, Bosnia and Herzegovina determines whether the definition of highways or possibly fast roads is. It may be possible to resolve some issues by means of fast roads, and there was no such debate with us, the representatives of the people. What I am fully convinced, given the shortness of time, I believe that highways will not be built on the principle that they were done with us in Republika Srpska in a way that is accessible to all highways and that they can all use it on equal terms and have privileges, since we pay for the construction of highways. So we in Republika Srpska have built 70 km of highways, highways and it is interesting that, for example, the stock from Banja Luka to Gradiška, or from Laktaša to Gradiška has 35 kilometers, the same length has a highway from Prnjavor to Doboj, the citizens pay 2.5 KM when they go on the highway from Laktaša to Gradiška, or when they go from Banja Luka, from Laktaša they pay nothing, and when they cross the same stock from Prnjavor to Doboj they pay 4 KM. It is interesting that on the highway built from Gradiška to, uh, practically up to Laktaša you have about five connections on that highway, of course in Bakinci, in Topoli, in Gradišca, in Drukovic, etc., even some villages have one side of the world for the entrance and the other side of the world. In contrast, for example, from Prnjavor - Doboj, where you don't have any connections on the highway, and you have this Dervent, for example, that has extremely good economic, economic potentials that need highways, and you have flaters who also need highways. It is interesting, too, when it comes to the purchase of land to spend a million marks on one share and the other 300,000, and the same relationship is 35km. So all it takes is a more correct approach and an equal approach to be wherever the highway is built. Therefore, I believe that this Declaration has an excuse and that, as such, it gives the Bosniaks the opportunity to, among other things, have a chance when it comes to Banja Luka, Prijedor, and that part of the road is connected to Belgrade, and it will not harm the Bošnjak to have a large number of residents from that part of the Federation, which is Tuzlan swimming pool that has huge business co-operation with Serbia, when we look at that we have the largest trade in goods with Serbia, and that area called Tuzla also has, it precedes, when it comes to the exchange of goods from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Serbia. So, I think this kind of debate should take place, and this Declaration is an incentive to me that we should have talked. After all, if the Poljak2 can only have fast roads and have a well-developed road infrastructure, why in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the standard we have, we would not think how best to solve the highway issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21622	I'd like to thank the representative. Debate, MP Senad Šepić. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21623	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I answered last time, it was a different atmosphere, a different context, but one part of the thing I'm going to say is, although a good part of the idea has already been said by my colleague Bojić. So this approach and this debate, we saw it last time, we see today, we really need it in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is one small, not small, but important, but partial question. So, the issue of building road infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a question that deserves a huge, broad debate here, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in which it will first be included by the end of the profession, where we will get all possible proposals, ideas, relevant information and where, in that sense, we will, on the basis of such an approach, get a chance to politically express some of our ideas, or some of our direction of the next division. So, I support this, I'm going to support this Declaration today, as I just said earlier, we need this debate, this approach, because it implies the possibility of using this time for the largest number of people is something that I would say is a key argument that we have to take care of. So these roads are made to make as many people as possible benefit from them, so that the most of the territory of the country we represent is covered, which is why a comprehensive debate is important that will take into account all these things in some final picture and take into account the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am not going to speak specifically today about the past 20 years of neglect of some parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I come from one such, but in one sense a broad, fair debate, through part of the funds, through part of the planning that will be planned from some international funds, support from other countries, here in this case we have the relationship Turkey, Serbia, etc., with some other plans we make in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we have the broadest debate we can make some, I would say, the most honest approach. So I suggest the conclusion, therefore, that with this today, we will support this, the conclusion of the Independent bloc is that a broad debate is being organised, if not a thematic session on this matter alone, then the agenda point which, this one, will take into account one debate on the whole state, development, direction of action and vision of building road infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, most of it adds up to what counterpart Bojić was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21624	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21625	Gentlemen chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers. I think that, however much this man looks at it may be, I believe that the promoter with the best intention suggested this Declaration. The declaration as a document is not binding, but I think in any case that important issues should be discussed, including issues of infrastructure integration between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries, here with the Republic of Serbia. I suppose, and I believe that the Proposer is not intended to compromise that idea or anyone who has a different attitude. I think that here, if this was the Declaration on Infrastructure Integration, I would support this Declaration today, but if we as Parliament are going to discuss only one route, I'm afraid we won't share the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it's really important to connect the premises both within Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina with the neighbouring six countries. That is why I am willing to suggest one conclusion, but of course for the track and everything else will be delivered to the state ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity ministries, to get acquainted with MPs' views. That's what we're going to leave behind, so this need for infrastructure integration, we're going to leave it to everyone to discuss without our advance commitment. So, I'm afraid that certain parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina don't come up with, when it's a course, only with... a moment, so, for a route, for a connection, of course, it takes a lot of indicators, it takes a lot of waist. We have only a political individual attitude here and I would not like today, I would not like to share today on the path of connecting Bosnia and Herzegovina with neighbouring countries. That is why I am asking the Proposer to consider, it is very important that decision-makers be familiar with the views of the Members. So, the Declaration as a Declaration, if someone wants another route won't be specific to them, but it's good to keep that in mind. Now, here's my proposal, if the motion for a resolution or a declaration is ready to accept it, I think it would be wise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21626	Thank you. Mladen Bosić, deputy, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21627	Well, I agree with this. So, the Declaration should be sent to all the factors that decide, meaning both the entity authorities and the Council of Ministers, and if adopted, it is the path to go. Whether to send discussions, so everyone has discussions, it's, I mean, free access, everyone can get, these sessions are public, I think they have public transfers, but I don't mind sending the discussions that were here. This Declaration was only meant to challenge a way of thinking that should reverse the matter from political will to data and arguments in making important decisions about what investment is about building any highway, so here's this. I believe that everyone has contributed in some way to this debate, but this is not just about the highway, this concerns all other investments, and I hope that this discussion will eventually have an effect in changing the way the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina think, which must have the main argument for any decision on what is in the best interests of their citizens, and not what is in the best interest of any individual or anyone outside Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21628	Thank you, dear Representative Nikola Špirić, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21629	I thought that, in fact, my call was to get along, not to... If the Declaration is adopted on this, therefore, the content part of us are committed to the course, and I wanted to avoid these divisions. Let the waist, if that's the course, will be difficult to explain to Podrinja and the people who live, no matter how few there are. So there may be other reasons to force the decision to call it a route, but to avoid it as MPs from the level of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So no one here argues that they should connect in and out, let the waist say what, but I was saying, the Declaration of the need to connect the infrastructure certainly stands. I'm afraid we're going in seven tenors and this Declaration is going to get a little bit more hammered up than it's going to make... to make good decisions. In that sense, if we catch, if we accept the content declaration for us other paths do not exist. It's just, let's just say, my attempt to create the Declaration and all of us, I say it's very important that decision-makers have individual MPs' discussions. As far as I know, colleagues were talking about the need to connect and Podrinj, which is quite logical, or here, my colleague Bojić was talking about the second part of Republika Srpska, so today, that we, here on an important strategic infrastructure project, do not win the local patriotism that is related to the local, only to the local community. Well, people, countries, one country, in order to make the infrastructure rise, everything has to be in motion, and we think we're going to solve everything by political declaration. And there is a problem between Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are, in everything, superficial. Politics doesn't allow, even through the Declaration, the profession to say its position, do we have any expert opinions before the adoption of the Declaration? We don't. That is why my request, if possible, that the debate on the Declaration, not the Declaration, be delivered to decision-makers, is very important for them to see what the Members of State think. If we adopt the Declaration, we'll nail this route and other paths. I..., here's my try to help. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21630	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21631	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Given that the debate on this topic is coming to an end, I must say that the debate on this issue, as well as this Declaration, indeed, so now we can conclude on behalf of all MPs who participated in the discussion on this point, has shown that there is full meaning and justification why this topic is open and why it has been discussed, why it has been given, with the right, great attention, and I must say that I expect that there is also a parliamentary majority that will adopt the proposed Declaration. What's important about the debate on this subject is that, and I see that this is the starting point for most of the debaters within this agenda point, let's try these objective, professional and scientific criteria to put above politics and political criteria. And if it's one of the messages of adoption of this Declaration, I think we're on our way. Why exactly the route in this section that relates to the region of northeastern Bosnia, i.e. the area of Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina? We've already spoken and highlighted the arguments, but many arguments are, above all, of economic nature. It is well known to all those who want to know that there are the biggest economic potentials in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, the fact is that we have an airport in Tuzla that with one path that would go through this region gets extra weight, and it's in a major developmental explosion, so to speak. Also, in this context, we must place Luke Brcko, especially in the light of the 5c Corridor that is already being built, no negligible argument is the fact that close to one and a half million citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, between 35 per cent and 40 per cent of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population is somehow connected to this route. And most importantly, I think that at the end of this debate there should be a message that there are no divisions on this matter, but that we should also accept here in the state parliament the fact that local communities through legally elected representatives have shown their position very clearly. When I say that, I mean the Municipality or the Municipality of Bijeljina, Brcko District, Tuzla, and I don't pick up all the municipalities of 8 that are gravitating that region. Of course, this topic should not forget the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is already building Corridor 5c, a Tanse European corridor that will connect Bosnia and Herzegovina from the north to the south. The definition of this route does not mean, nor should it mean that we are ignoring other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, it is very serious to continue activities to connect the capital of Sarajevo with East Bosnia, Gorazde, Foč, etc., and what is very important to work on projects linking Sarajevo, Travnik with Unsko-San canton, i.e. Bihać. To conclude, no matter what there should be many more integral factors in this country, it seems that in the last five or six years two of the strongest integration factors have been water and asphalt. Of course, I expect people to become, above all, the greatest integral factor in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21632	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21633	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, what I want to say now in correcting the wrong allegation may not even say that Mr. Denis Bećirović did not mention the City of Bijeljina on two occasions, with an alleged explanation that both the City of Bijeljina and Semberija would benefit if this highway were to walk along the section that was proposed, along the route proposed in this Declaration, which is not true. So, I am obliged to say that, in the meantime, from our last session to today, a lot of citizens in Bijeljina and Semberija have contacted me, especially those who understand and who already know where this route would go, with the conclusion and with the comment that Bijeljina and Semberija will benefit the least from this if this route goes in this way as proposed. What do I mean? That there is no abuse of the name here of Semberija and Bijeljina for the reason that it is allegedly going through the Republic of Serbia and that, uh, the citizens of Semberija and Bijeljina will benefit. It will have a completely insignificant part because it is a 10, 15 km section that would go past Bijeljina compared to all the previous shares that will go from Sarajevo, via Tuzla, Brcko District, all would benefit much more than Bijeljina and Semberija would have. And it is interesting that Mr. Bosić, in this proposal of course, has the same proposal in his Declaration as the SDA Club, which we heard at the beginning of this 53rd session when he presented the proposal of a colleague from the SDA Club, they stayed and said they supported absolutely this proposal. And it is interesting that Mr. Bosić has the same proposal, namely his Club and Club SDA, are identical, but his proposal is not compatible, nor does he want to take into account the proposal of the Republika Srpska government at all, therefore, from the entity from which it comes. Of course, that says something in itself, but it was not my primary point to say, although it is an important fact throughout this debate, therefore, that MPs from Republika Srpska, or an MP, do not respect the government's position from the entity from which they come and are not partial. personal demands and interests, rather than the position of the Government, i.e. [[the speaker is warned on time]] oneness, but it was my primary priority to say here and please all colleagues, when you comment [[the speaker is warned on time]] Not to mention a lot of Bijeljina and Semberi, because here this city is the last one on the list of these cities that may have some use, but it won't, because I already said in a previous discussion that Semberija already has a great exit to Belgrade. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 9
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21634	Thank you. I ask the MPs to comply with the business provisions on time. Representative Denis Bećirović had, so I am obliged to warn you, according to the Service records you have already had two corrections so at this point please understand, you have no...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21635	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21636	You had two on record.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21637	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21638	It's today, it's, according to the record of the Service we run, you had two replicas and I'm asking for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21639	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21640	Will we please...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21641	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21642	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21643	... Chief Bijeljina expressed such a position... citizens that... the interests of these citizens. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21644	Representative, please and everyone else, you have now broken, or I turn out, because you have spoken and you have not received your word. You didn't get the word. Sadik Ahmetović, the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21645	Here, it's good that you've interrupted this debate, because it shows a little bit that today it doesn't need to vote for these amendments and additions to the Excise Act, because you can see that SDA and SNSD can't agree on where to build roads. So that's, if I can't figure out where they're going to build roads, so here I am, so it has to do with this point on the agenda, then there's no reason why we're saying 10 today on that point, because this is a key question, this is a key question. So we have one full consensus between the SDA and SNSD to increase excise duties, and there is no consensus on where the road to Belgrade will go, or where highways will be built. Of course, therefore, it says that money will not go for the roads but will go for some other things. But here I am going back to this Declaration offered by my colleague Bosić and certainly should, or any other declaration that determines any other route of highway in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, that there is little reason for any of us to support it from us. But I have a feeling we're cutting the rye, and the rabbit's in the woods. So, that's the key thing because these days or recently, as this story has started, I'm trying to figure out who and how this project will finance itself, under which conditions this project will finance, whether Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia will finance this project or do it to us by themselves, the friendly Republic of Turkey. So these are questions that no one has yet to answer, and I have a feeling that it's been so complicated that we're having some debates that are even more or more complicated by the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'd like to answer those questions, of course, by those who have more, who have more information about it. We need more connections, both with Belgrade and with Zagreb, I would like one such initiative to go to Zagreb, it would be very useful to link Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory and open up the possibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina to connect with us next-door country that is already a member of the European Union. What are the reasons for this staged idea I can guess, I certainly will not question them, and whether they are political, economic or other nature, where they will go from Sarajevo to Belgrade this is very important. We heard here today a lot of reasons both for my colleagues or before in that session when we had that it was economic, economic, every other thing we could hear from the mayors of these cities. And I certainly support them, but does Bosnia and Herzegovina have a strategy to make roads where no one lives after '95? A year or after '92. In the year, is the construction of roads through such, such areas re-moving and reviving these areas? I would like these reasons to be one of the reasons why people should make roads and where people don't live, where people are moved for economic reasons because they are better off in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Belgrade, Zagreb or where else. So, I can't vote for this kind of Declaration, but I'd like to think about it in a way that we can connect, as someone has already said, or open an opportunity or an alternative to the road, that it's possible to connect Belgrade and through Bratunac or this new bridge that was built in Bratunac, because here we are making some way, somewhere I read, there's no bridge. So, let's get these bridges and the roads a little bit, and then, yes, we have some kind of a excess story when it comes to this infrastructure and connecting with our neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21646	Thank you. Debate, MP Miroslav Milovanović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21647	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. I would like to welcome all those present in the hall, of course mostly fellow MPs, and to take advantage of my business opportunity to say a few words about this subject that has been disturbing the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a month. I voted against inclusion in the agenda of this point and you all know it for formal legal reasons. We have a BiH Constitution in which many things are defined, defined quite 11 clearly. There's a section in that document that deals with jurisdiction, and then I wonder where this agenda point comes from here. In particular, I did not expect you, Mr Bosić, to delegate one item of the agenda to today's session, and I expected you to point out that you are also preventing points that are not in the competences of this Parliament from being discussed here at all, not that you are initiating them. And why did I expect that from you? Because you are acting as a legalist, as a politician who takes care of his moves, as a politician who respects the laws and the BiH Constitution, as a politician who respects the institutions of Republika Srpska and its jurisdiction. It is clear to me now that you are only presenting yourself, therefore, all of it, and that you respect the institutions of Republika Srpska, because if it were different, you would never suggest one such point, given that what you are talking about in it is the exclusive jurisdiction of the entity, and not this Parliament. We apologize for these inconclusive, perhaps, excuses for the expression, of the unserious moves we defuse entities in a specific case and Republika Srpska. Today you're doing it, Mr. Bosić. Yesterday someone else did it. Tomorrow someone else will do it. Here today we have probably a representative of the OHR who will write that MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly are wonderful, that they deal with and things that are not in their jurisdiction, that strengthen Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., etc. I am not against the weakness of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to be misunderstood, so it absolutely does not stand if someone thought I was going to say, I am in favour of the letter of the BiH Constitution, that all levels of government are carrying out what they are responsible for. So, and there is unequivocally standing in whose jurisdiction is what's being discussed on this agenda today. The declaration is absolutely legally unfounded, it does not produce any legal fact, it is optional for those levels of government that make a decision on the pathway. I think this is another unnecessary blow to the institutions of the Republika Srpska and the institutions of the Federation of BiH. We shouldn't have talked about her at all today, and all these days, because I think she's absolutely for daily political use. It shows up in it, and I think it's overemphasizing some local patriotism. And now, finally, I come to that, and now I am from Bijeljina, and since I would vote against this Declaration you would say he is against Bijeljina, which is insane, which is nonsensical, which is absurd, and this has already been discussed when we were just talking about discussion, when we discussed and when we were discussing the inclusion of this agenda point in the agenda, because I voted against because we are violating the BiH Constitution and we are discussing something that we are not in charge of. I think this point of the Declaration is absolutely insane, and I will be in the frame of this madness and as part of my local patriotism I will define when I vote for it and probably support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21648	Thank you. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Please check according to the records, because you just called. You have a chance to correct the wrong assumption, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21649	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am correcting the false allegations of a previous debater, a respected colleague, who said that the Declaration as a item of the agenda that we are discussing has no legal validity, that it has not been established. This is absolutely not true, our Rules of Procedure of Article 165 states that the House, therefore the House of Representatives, can bring, among other things, the Declaration, and in its position (2) under (a) says – that the declaration is an act which contains a principle of opinion on the important issues which the House has considered. He also said we're dissipating entities. That's not true. And word is we're not in charge. This House is certainly 12 in charge. If credit is taken and an interstate agreement is reached this House together with the House of Peoples, then the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the last body to decide whether or not we will give consent, or about the ratification of the agreement and the realisation of the credit and the construction of the road. Well, those who have these local responsibilities, I respect the municipalities, and the cities, and the cantons, and the entities, and the Brcko District, should take care of this. And finally, the Declaration does not talk about the route, as Honored counterpart Špirić speaks, but talks about the criteria that should be respected in determining the route, and all the criteria are in favour of that path going through Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21650	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21651	I thank the chairman. Mr. Milovanović said there are elements to the violation of the BiH Constitution. It is good, although I disagree with this, but it is good that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls, mentions and respects the Constitution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that in the last year of the term of office, this assembly of the House matures and from that politics at the beginning, and, I would say, unnecessary conflicts come to a situation where, behold, all MPs, regardless of which parties and from which part of Bosnia and Herzegovina come, show their respect for both the Constitution and the law and this House as a whole. So I really don't think it's a violation of the BiH Constitution, but I had a need to say that, here, some positive things happen even through this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21652	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21653	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome all present colleagues and colleagues in the O.R. Well, here, after it came, there was a expression of local patriotism so that with a few words, I would say from southern Bosnia or Herzegovina, from this field downstairs, and I am a man who, in some way, loves, when we have problems like this, find certain solutions to make compromises, so I suggest that maybe a little, since it will be mostly taxpayers' money, none of these Santas, sacred nicos, which will come from the side, there will be none of that, there will be a pair of taxpayers, that we go fine from Tarcin, then to the Konjic, then to Jablanica, then to Mostar, then to Chapljina, and then to Chapljina to make one turn to Stolac, from Stoc we go to Trebinj, we climb to Bilec, come to Gacko, from Gacka my mother, so I would like to get to Gapljina, then we go to Gac, to Gada, to Gada, to Foca to Gada, to Gada, to Foca, to Foca, to Goca to Goca, to Goca, to Goca, to Goca, to Goca, to Goca, to Goca, to Goca, to G. Now we can make a route to Sarajevo, and one to Serbia, and we can extend it to Usiprac, and then we can go to, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's go to Sokolac, Han Pijesak. In Sokoc we can go to Sarajevo, from Han Pijesk we come down to Vlasenica and there we have a circular current now so we go to Calesia, no, not this Kladnji, from Kladnja we can connect to Tuzla and get down a little bit to connect lead and this... 13 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, well, that'll be good there in Tuzla, so we'll go out. Now, when we get to Tuzla, we can go left, right,...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21655	I'm asking the MPs not to take it from the scene. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21656	No, my colleagues are helping me...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21657	I'd like representatives to observe the order in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21658	But, uh, that's all I've got left, I've got a slow Tešanj, I can't put him together, only from Doboj, so I can. And then from Tuzla we go to Doboj and now we tie up what was done in Republika Srpska to Banja Luka. From Banja Luka up the code, on the Great Claudius. And in such a way, we satisfy all of these local patriotic interests, because brothers we're all going to be giving money for this, here you are prepared to give us a new charge of fuel at the next point of the agenda, to raise prices, to take from the people... money, and then to the people and return through these certain routes and I'm going to stand up for these routes. I'll go next, if Bog is alive and healthy, in the next session with a new declaration, so I'll make this up so I know exactly, these knots, the circular flows that I can go left and right without causing trouble to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21659	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reported under point 11. Please, before we move to item 12, I propose to the House the unification of the debate on items 12 to 21 of the agenda, including item 21, since it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of protocols, amendments, agreements, conventions and contracts. We are now voting on a motion to unite the debate. Of the 41 present – 31 for, versus 5, abstentions 5. There's an entity, there's a general majority. I find that we have united the debate at points 12 to 21, including point 21. Ad. 20. - 21. Giving consent to ratification of protocols, amendments, agreements, conventions and contracts Opinions of the committee responsible for foreign affairs have been received. 14 Behold, I am now opening a debate at these points. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21661	Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome the chairman and everyone present in this room. We voted against the unification of these agenda points because we have serious objections to one of the, one of the agreements that we should ratify today. Otherwise, I think this pooling point when it comes to loans, loans, whatever they call it, I don't think it makes any sense, they need a little more attention. So that's point 20 of which is about ratification of the agreement on, I have to read because a little bit of us, I have to strangely sound that whole title, the Public Policy Development Agreement, the Public Financial Loan, the Development of Public Finance Policy, the Public Finance Policy. By reading this Agreement, let's take a look at section one and commentary, in which one, section one, which lists the activities thanks to which, both entities' activities, the governments of both entities, thanks to which it is approved, approves a 74m-euro loan from Bosnia and Herzegovina, over 74m euros, a fairly favourable credit that is shared between two entities in a certain proportion, and what led to the approval of such credit are programmes that focus on reducing the poverty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so there are some eight activities here, including, I will only single out certain, which I do not recognise as activities that will lead to poverty reduction rather than on increasing the poverty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily through poverty of workers who are victims of such laws that are adopted here, including members of their families. So this is about the Labour Act, the Law on bankruptcy, the Labour Act, the adoption of the Labour Act in both entities, it's about a good, good solution that concerns limiting the labour contract to three years in relation to the previous law, and it's about introducing the maximum amount of severance, which I also don't see is about reducing poverty, it's about increasing poverty. Then, the law on bankruptcy, which is equally defeated in both the Republika Srpska and the Federation when it comes to workers who are collateral damage to bankruptcy proceedings in various companies, whether they are state-owned or in full or in part. So I'm going to stick to this bankruptcy bill when it comes to the Federation, here at point 7, it says that Republika Srpska has adopted amendments and additions to this law on bankruptcy, and the Federation government has adopted, in fact made a proposal to supplement and amend the law that was given in parliamentary procedure. I will remind you that this Law, following the appeal of the Vice-President of the Federation, Mr Dunović, was declared at the Constitutional Court of the Federation of BiH as an unconstitutional law and a proposal made by the Federation government in the parliamentary procedure, was removed from the agenda of the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH for exactly the same reasons that the requirements for the Constitutional Court's decision were not incorporated and are equally unconstitutional individual members of this Act. So, there's something that I have to say, it's not true, so we're saying that, in this document, it's going to argue that this condition will also be violated because the zakon is supposed to be in parliamentary procedure. The only point that, in some ways, is that through a Council of Ministers programme that regulates the maximum wholesale price of medicines on Bosnia and Herzegovina territory could contribute to reducing the poverty of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would not have much to say about this programme, to say, stories or reasons when I talk about all these conditions that we have fulfilled in order to get a loan, that in point 6 of the Appendix to this Agreement which we ratify is not defined as labelling, these are definitions used in this Agreement, the programme means an activity programme, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable poverty reduction. Therefore, point (a) is as stated or to which the letter of 9 February 2017, which Bosnia and Herzegovina sent to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and under point 15 (b) of the activities listed in Section 1 of this Agreement, is referred. And Section 1 of Annex 1 is exactly what I am to you right now, which I reminded you of. I see neither, nor in any way in this document how these credits will be spent, in what and in what ways we will reduce the poverty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because here they are Unauthorized costs, here's an apology just one more minute, unauthorized costs of tobacco, alcohol, pearls, gold and nuclear energy. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So these are very strange, strange elements of this Agreement that I don't think the DF Club will support. Because I suppose we'll vote separately on each of these agreements. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21662	Thank you very much. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21663	I thank the chairman. I will also discuss the same contract spoken of by an esteemed colleague. You see, with all that she has said, the concrete reforms that focus through this credit arrangement also relate to increasing transparency of public finances. Now, I would like to welcome that, but this is not about increasing transparency towards our institutions, according to legislative authorities that serve only to approve loans, but to increase transparency towards creditors. And the best part of this agreement is that our entity governments are not managed, no longer managed by entity parliaments, but by foreign creditors. Since we had a similar agreement in 2010, before we give our position on this, we expect information from the Council of Ministers to provide us with information on the credit arrangement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2010 amounting to 31,300,000 euros within 30 days to get it. The objective of the loan was to increase social assistance, reduce poverty, improve the structure and efficiency of public spending. So 31,300,000 euros to reduce poverty, and today we are marked as the poorest country in Europe. Thank you and ask the service to conclude...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21664	Thank you very much. Finalising debate at points 12 to 21. We've exhausted our session's agenda with this. Now it's 11:06, shall we go here at 11:20 for the vote? Is that enough? Yes, it is. 11:20, I'll see you at the vote. Can we please take the vote? Please move to the vote, so get ready. 16 We're going to vote on point one. – The adoption of the minutes of the 52nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Of the 40 present – for 31, there are no, abstentions 9. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the minutes of the 52nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Moving to point 4. – Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Temporary joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, dated 26.05.2017. (second reading) We're voting on the adoption of the amendment of Representative Damir Arnaut. We have, so, one, two, three amendments. So we vote individually on these amendments. I'm giving the amendment and representative of Damir Arnaut to the vote. Of the 38 present – for 19 against 10, abstentions 9. So there is a general, but there is no entity majority of Republika Srpska. So we don't have 1/3 for. Shall we go to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting right now. Of the 39 present – for 19 against 9, abstention 11. So in the second round, we have both the necessary entity majority and the general majority. I find that the amendment and representative of Damir Arnaut has been adopted. We move to a vote on the adoption of Amendment II to MP Damir Arnaut. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 12, abstentions 6. So there is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Shall we go to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting on the amendment. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 13, abstentions 5. So there's a general and entity majority in this second circle. I find that Amendment II of Representative Damir Arnaut has been adopted. We vote on the adoption of Amendment III of Representative Damir Arnaut. Of the 40 present – for 21, against 12, abstention 7. There is a general but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are we going to the second round right now? Please vote in the second round. So of the 40 present – for 22, against 13, abstentions 5. There's both a general and an entity majority. So I agree that we have also adopted Amendment III of Representative Damir Arnaut. We are now voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading, with amendments adopted. Of the 40 present – for 20, against 9, abstention 11. There's a general, there's an entity majority. 17 I agree that we adopted the bill in the second reading, with the amendments adopted. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Law No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017. (second reading) First, we vote on the adoption of amendments by MP Šefik Džaferović. Of the 40 present – for 16, against 16, abstention 8. There's no general majority. I understand that we have not adopted the amendment of MP Šefik Džaferović. We are now voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading with the amendments adopted. Of the 40 present – for 32, against 6, abstention 2. I realize we have a general and entity majority. We adopted a proposal to supplement BiH's Penal Code, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. We're moving to current six. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Borislav Bojić, Law No: 01- 02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. (first reading) We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Of the 40 present – for 26, against 11, abstention 3. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions in the first reading. We're going to point 7. – Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-1611/17, dated 04.07.2017. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of a representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. The text of the conclusion should I read? The president of the VSTV BiH will provide data on the evaluations of the results of the work of judges and prosecutors for 2015 and 2016 within 30 days of the adoption of this conclusion to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Each subsequent VSTV report will contain these data because the VSTV has certainly not made them available. Please initiate the vote. Of the 40 present – for 35, against 1, abstentions 4. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the text of the conclusion. We are now voting on receiving a report from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Of the 40 present – for 4, versus 30, abstentions 6. I konstatirati that there is no general majority and that we have not received the report from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Moving to point 8. – Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Security of BiH, number: 01,02-04-2207/17, since 12.09.2017. We're voting on receiving this information. 18 Out of the 40 present – for 19, against 6, abstentioned 15. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we received information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016. Moving to point 9. – Information on the type, number, intensity and cost of visiting BiH Minister of Foreign Affairs to other countries and the purpose of visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens – Proposer of the point: Representative Damir Arnaut, No: 01-50-1-2525/17, of 25.10.2017. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of the SBB's representative. Shall we read the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21666	We don't have to. We know all that. _________(?) Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21667	Proposal for a conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests that the BiH Foreign Minister submit a detailed report on all trips outside Bosnia and Herzegovina during its term of office, including destination, number of days, purpose of travel, number of members, total costs for each official trip, accommodation, sorted by type, transport, daily and other costs, results of subsequent activities, opening negotiations, signing a visa waiver agreement. It undertakes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliver in the same period of the Minister's detailed travel plan during 2018, with the same details. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 40 present – for 18, against 21, abstention 1. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the text of the SBB Club's conclusions. We move to a vote on the proposal for the conclusion of SBB's representative. I'll also read the text of the conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests that the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH, either on its own initiative or in cooperation with the College of the House of Nations, ensure the presence of members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs at a thematic session titled "Foreign and Political Directions and the objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the impact of geopolitical flows on Bosnia and Herzegovina". I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 40 present – for 23, against 14, abstention 3. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21668	Amir,...the vote. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21669	We vote, please we don't, no doubt, don't make a circus with a vote, we're finished with a fellow vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21670	I'm asking for a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21671	We're done voting, don't let things like this happen to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21672	You didn't come to the new agenda, I'm looking for...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21673	We didn't come, but we finished the vote, and I realized, at that point, we had no objection.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21674	I'm looking for a repeat... new point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21675	I ask the House to plead in this situation if we will repeat the vote on this proposal's conclusion that it will not be mine. Of the 40 present – for 14, against 23, abstention 3. There's no general majority. I find that we have not accepted the proposal to re-propose the proposal for the text of the conclusion. Let's go to the table, please pay attention, we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of representative Dušanka Majkić. Text of conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked with organising a debate on the state of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the DKP network within 30 days, with a special focus on the work and travel of the minister. It requires the foreign ministry to deliver all relevant materials to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives which could help make appropriate decisions at a session of the House of Representatives. Please make a statement. Of the 40 present – for 11, v 18, abstention 1. There's no general majority. ?????????????? I find that we have not adopted the proposal for a conclusion. We are voting on a proposal for the conclusion of an independent bloc representative. Text of conclusion: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH invites three members of the Presidency, presidents and members of the Council of Ministers, members of the colleges to deliver information on official travel in the 2014-2017 term, destination, number of days spent on official travel, purpose of travel, number of members of the delegation, total costs, etc. Competent institutions undertake to supply 20 data on the same paragraphs and for the foreign minister in earlier mandates, starting in '95. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21676	... MEPs and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly also add. [[no microphone turned on]] So, not only the College, but for the College, they were supposed to fix it. It means adding costs to all MPs and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21677	Wait a minute, please, let's be careful. So, I'm just going to tell you, we were a little late for the vote, at the start of this session's vote, to bring our services together and make right proposals for the conclusions that we need to make known. In order for them to be heard, we often hear in the debate, but I repeat, they are obliged to write a written conclusion and deliver. In this case, I don't have that, with this written proposal, conclusion, and I remember it was completely in the debate. So what we have here, and if someone has a written text proposal and if it's a service error... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So it wasn't delivered in writing. I'm asking for your understanding. I call upon you to make a statement on the text of the conclusion. Of the 40 present – for 20, against 19, abstention 1. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted the text of the conclusion. Moving to point 10. – Review of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 07/09/2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in the NATO accession process within 30 days from the date of adoption of this initiative, with a proposal for concrete measures to dynamic Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities on the way to full membership in NATO," number 01-50-1-2181/17. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Of the 40 present – for 23, against 17, there are no abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska. Are we going to the second round right now? We're going to the second round of voting on the proposal for this initiative. Of the 40 present – for 20, against 17, abstention 3. So there is a general majority, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska, there is 2/3 against it. This initiative did not receive the necessary majority. 21 Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21679	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21680	Please colleague no one at the moment, so repeat vote may be due to technical and..., no one, no one, have any option if someone is voting and we do not allow, today will be a principle. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21681	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21682	Let's be serious, at least explain the reasons you're looking for. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21683	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21684	Here's to be determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21685	Thank you. A brief explanation. Since it's obviously not possible to hold order and hear everything you're telling us, it's a vote, it's not, first, second round, in this chaos that we've proposed we haven't been able to vote. We ask that the vote be repeated so that our vote is registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21686	We repeat the vote. Please round 2 of the vote on Denis Bećirović's initiative. Of the 40 present – for 23, against 17, there are no abstentions. I find there is a general majority, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska, there is 2/3 against it. We did not adopt the initiative of MP Denis Bećirović. Moving to point 11. – Declaration on the criteria for determining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo – Proposer: MP Mladen Bosić, issue: 01-02-22524/17, of 25.10.2017. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of SBB's representative. The text of the conclusion is: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Council of Ministers for the adoption of the initiative and inclusion of the fast road project Gorazde – Sarajevo in priority projects of interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The reasons for listing concern a wide range of interests of infrastructure and international, and the willingness of investors to participate in the implementation of this project. Of the 40 present... _________(?) 22 [[no microphone turned on]] Please, we're asking for a repeat vote. Of the 40 present – for 21 versus 13, abstentions 6. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska, so there is no 1/3 vote for it. So he didn't go through in the first round. Shall we go straight to the second round? Please let us plead immediately and in the second round. Of the 40 present – for 22, against 13, abstentions 5. There is a general majority, but there is no entity majority in Republika Srpska, so there are 2/3 against it. This proposal has not received the necessary majority. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Senad Šepić's representative. Text of conclusion: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the BiH Council of Ministers and competent institutions to prepare, within 60 days at the latest, information on a proposal to build a road infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and tasks the College to schedule a special session of the House of Representatives to discuss the issue on the basis of these materials. Of the 42 present – for 13, against 24, abstentions 5. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the text of the conclusion. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Agent Nikola Špirić. The text of the conclusion reads: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will not be declared a declaration deciding the route of the highway connecting Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. A full debate on this Declaration shall be delivered to the competent addresses which shall make final decisions on the route of the highway. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 42 present – for 10, against 24, abstention 8. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the text of the conclusion. We're voting now on the adoption of the Declaration. I suggest we make a statement on the text of the Declaration. Out of total... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21689	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21690	We haven't established, please... 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21691	/Common discussion/ [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21692	Please, please, let's be serious, let's not with inappropriate intrusions. I suggest we get back to the Declaration on the criteria for determining the route of the future highway. Of the 41 present – for 27, against 5, abstentions 9. I konstatirati we have a general and entity majority. We have adopted, therefore, a proposal for a declaration in which the Declaration means, on the establishment, the determination of the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo, the proposing representative Mladen Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21693	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21694	Please say, here you go, business.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21695	Article 89. – if the electronic voting system is not in place, it states, since we have a Member present, and it registers the system that is not present, or at the request of 1/3 of the MPs in the House, it is voted by raising the ballot, or by hand. Please either realize that the system is not operational or let's see if we have 1/3 that will request a vote by raising the ballot. So Article 89 (1), please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21696	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21697	Well, then someone needs to determine, Mr. Džaferović, if you are an electronic expert to determine that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21698	Please, counsel, neither are you, nor are you, each representative has the right to be excluded from being there, not to vote, not to listen to you. Therefore, you cannot conclude that the system is wrong, the system has shown...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21699	Okay, here, please, 1/3, can you determine now, here I suggest we say by voting by raising the chart, 1/3 let... 24
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21700	We've concluded a vote on this agenda item. Please, we are now moving to item 12, but before we move on, I suggest we vote on a proposal to declare ourselves from points 12 to 21 in the package, including point 21. Of the 41 present – for 23, against 12, abstentions 6. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have united the vote on points 12 to 21, including point 21. Now, before we plead... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But we have a proposal to text the conclusion... _________(?) For what point...?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21703	I'm just in a hurry to determine if we have the presence of a proponent of that conclusion, Mrs. Pandurević, or not, since...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-0.u21704	Please, at this point I am concluding the 53rd session of the House of Representatives. Thank you for your cooperation. We continue immediately with the 54th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, meaning for today. Session completed 12:05 p.m.
