ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16168	I ask the MPs and everyone present to take their seats, it's time to start working. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 41st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions Audit Office were also invited to attend the session. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by distinguished representative Jovan Vukovljak, and the delay was announced by distinguished representatives of Staša Košarac and Asim Sarajlić. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak and Deputy Mr. Josip Brkić delivered a notice on the inability to attend today's session. According to the Service, 37 representatives attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for today's session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16169	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers, chairman of the Council of Ministers, my question was addressed to the minister of communication and traffic. I wonder if he is familiar, although I know he is not in charge, that there has been a change in the course of Corridor 5c in the area of Mostar compared to the 2012 Project, and that the new route passes, the Mostar South-Buna section, passes through the settlements, Mostar International Airport to Lakšina, while the old one has passed the slopes east of Opina and to Rotimlje. What are the reasons, I'm interested, for changing the route, especially because instead of unprocessing land, it's been processed, and did it make sure that the new 2 routes threatened the existence of people living in this area mainly from agriculture, so if you want a sustainable return? I have here a petition of the local population who opposes that change of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16170	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16171	The Honorable Chairman, deputy chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, media representatives. The question asked by the esteemed representative Aleksandra Pandurević refers to the section of the Corridor 5c Mostar South – Buna to the Kvanj tunnel. The construction of that stock is within the authority of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Enterprise, which is determined by the provisions of the laws on the roads of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also, the Law on Highways on Corridor 5c, "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH", number 8/13, sets out, among other things, a space of general interest for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to build highways, use of highway land, prepare for construction and construction of highways, establish public interest for all properties covered by the construction of highways on Corridor 5c. It is known that at a meeting held on 24.06.2016, the Federal Government established amendments to the proposal for a spatial plan of special features of importance for the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina at Corridor 5c and related to the initiative of the Public Enterprise of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Autoways for optimising the overall course of Corridor 5c, which caused the disfavor of the local population and the reactions of numerous associations of citizens from the southern and Southeast areas of the City of Mostar, who expressed their dissatisfaction with the new position of the highway route through petition. There is no doubt that it is necessary to look at all the legal aspects of the impact of the highway, both on the life of the local population and on the protection of natural, historical and cultural heritage. However, planning space in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning, and the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport has not participated in the preparation, nor in consultations on the optimisation of Corridor 5c highways on the mentioned route. The 5c highway is publicly of interest to Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities, and it is of great importance that this problem be solved in the best way, so that there is no delay in planning activities, and continued the process of transporting Bosnia and Herzegovina to countries in the region. The 5c highway is part of the main regional transport network and the European Transport Corridor Network, on which the Ministry of Communications and Transport has invested and is making every effort not to isolate Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this area, a three-time plan has been changed so far, and it is the position of this ministry to fully make available to all those who are doing planning in this area. And, of course, to agree fully with you and those who signed the petition that it is not in the interest that public goods are just being erased, so to say, from these maps where the Corridor will go and to find the best possible solution both for the Public Enterprise of highways and for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also for the people who signed this petition. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16172	Thank you, Minister. Commentary, distinguished representative Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16173	I'd like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response, and I'd like to ask him to provide me with an answer in writing. I'm still going to ask him to, no matter what his jurisdiction is, use his authority, as well as within his own party, there are SBB personnel there, and according to his colleagues from federal ministries, because I'm afraid we're also making other tensions in such a somewhat volatile situation in Mostar. I have here a petition signed by 1,078 people mostly, actually only Serbian and Bosniak nationalities. We were visited by representatives of the Mostar Association of Serbs who say they are truly existentially threatened by this change of course and that their sustainable return comes into question, that they are forced to leave Mostar in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16174	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16175	I didn't ask the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16176	It's a question from last session, there was no minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16177	I didn't ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16178	I thank you, I apologize. The sekretar, therefore, has no questions. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Mr. Nikola Lovrinović. It's so written to me here in this scenario that I have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16179	Good afternoon, everyone. I welcome the chairman, therefore, all colleagues and colleagues present at the House of Representatives' session. This is a question, actually one, so to speak, with three or four sub-questions that I, uh, intend to ask the Ministry of Justice, so it happened with the House of Representatives, sitting down what happened and there wasn't a minister at one point, and now, as far as I can tell, the minister is here, am I, is he there? He's not here now, is he? Okay. Nothing, uh, so I'm gonna ask you a question, so now we're gonna see what we're gonna do with it in the end. So my question was as follows – How many unsolved war crimes cases were committed at the time of the adoption of the Strategy and how many are completed with the 11th month of 2016? 4 Out of the remaining number of pending war crimes cases – how many are at the stage of the investigation and how many have been indicted, and in how many cases has the court reached a verdict and how many cases are in the process of resolving the appeal? Of all the war crimes cases brought before the Court of Justice of BiH and in which the Court of First Instance has reached its verdict, would you please provide me with legal qualifications of criminal offences and individual cases of whether the SFRJ Penal Code or the 2003 Penal Code of BiH was applied? Of all the war crimes cases in which the court of first instance or second court has reached a verdict – how many cases were tried by the Court of Justice of BiH and how many entity courts, and the national structure of the cases in which the ruling was brought by the Court of First Instance? So that's what I set up the Justice Department, and now if there's anyone who'll answer, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16180	Thank you. The Council of Ministers, today the Minister of Justice is not here, so this stays for the next session. And this question about Mrs. Majkić was actually not present from last session, we're recording these questions and we're putting them right for the next session, so you know that I read it based on the script of today's session and these questions are made according to this, is it, which wasn't last session being at this session. But we're moving on, I give my word to Honorary Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16181	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, media representatives, distinguished guests. My question is for the Minister of Justice and, of course, since he's not here today, I don't see any point in asking a question. Last time I read this question, I didn't get a oral or written answer, that I'm doing it again, I don't think it makes any sense, it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16182	Thank you very much. And this question will be at the next session. I now give my word to the honourable representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16183	Respect, my question has been addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, and it concerns disputes that have been brought against Bosnia and Herzegovina at international court arbitration institutions. I was interested – at what stage are these disputes, how many disputes do we have, and if there are any plans if there are negative consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina about paying off these damages, because we know that there are some 3 billion KM claims for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we also know that most of these claims apply to institutions from Republika Srpska? Are there any plans about these lawsuits? Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16184	The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, will give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16185	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you all. Here's a short answer, actually maybe an answer of two or three minutes because of the importance of the topic itself. So several arbitration proceedings against Bosnia and Herzegovina are currently under way before international authorities. The first was launched by a Slovenian investor, the Elektro-Emergency of Slovenia, who filed a damage claim against Bosnia and Herzegovina before the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes, based on the Agreement on the Promotion and Protection of Investments between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia and the Energy Charter Treaty. In July 2015, the arbitration tribunal was formed, and the process actions on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina were conducted by the BiH Ombudsman. The dispute was reportedly initiated due to violations of international contractual obligations by Mine and Ugljevik thermal power plant in which the prosecutor is seeking funds in this case invested in the construction of the Mine and the Ugljevik thermal power plants, as well as compensation for unsupervised electricity and basic demand is 695m euros. The second trial is in front of a... arbitration court in The Hague. The arbitration proceedings are under way under prosecutor Štrabak's suit against the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport for compensation for damages. The level of the dispute is 642,000 euros. It is a dispute launched over the delay of the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications as a contractor for the contractor to be introduced to work on building a bridge on the Sava River near Svilaj. The works were due to begin in 2012, and BiH's Ministry of Communications and Transport has been charged in the procedure under consideration that it is responsible for the termination of the bridge contract on the Sava River near Svilaj. For one and the other arbitration proceedings, the Council of Ministers, of course, tasked the resolution ministries and the Advocate General to take all activities related to the arbitration proceedings in question, to maintain contacts with formerly engaged lawyers, to attend all meetings, and to take timely legal action to protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets and interests. The third arbitration procedure is “Viaduct” d.o.o. A portfolio against Bosnia and Herzegovina. This case was registered two months ago at the International Centre for... Investment Disputes Secretariat. The process phase of the agreement is currently under way,...the formation of an arbitration tribunal. The complaint states that the damage to the prosecutor was caused by the violation of the Treaty on concessions for the design, construction, use, management and maintenance of hydroenergy systems on the Vrbas River, which was concluded in 2004 between the Government of Republika Srpska and the Hydropower Company Vrbas, founded by the shareholders of the "Viaducta". The damage claim in this case amounts to 54.139.000 euros. So, in all these processes, of course, the resolution ministries are involved, and BiH's defence is included, but it should be very clear that in the arbitration proceedings in question as a defendant, Bosnia and Herzegovina is marked only for the reason that only Bosnia and Herzegovina has international legal subjectivity. Therefore, in the cases of the Epower Economy of Slovenia, the Viaduct Portorož v Bosnia and Herzegovina was designated as the defendant by Bosnia and Herzegovina solely for the reason that Republika Srpska was sued and it does not have an international legal entity. BiH's defence will protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets and interests and carry out legal consultations under the provisions of the Law on Defence. Of course, because of the complexity of these international procedures, the D.A. has the right and will ask for help from law offices that are engaged and specialized in international arbitration. What is important is to point out that, in accordance with the applicable 6 regulations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all possible damages, as well as the costs incurred by the arbitration proceedings, are borne by one who, by his or her actions or by no means, led to the conduct of an international arbitration procedure against Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, in a situation of unfavourable outcome for Bosnia and Herzegovina in any international arbitration dispute, extreme obligations fall on the burden of that entity on whose territory a legal person has caused damage. We talked here about concrete arbitration procedures caused by Republika Srpska, its organs or other bodies, and the government of Republika Srpska is aware of its obligations in Ugljevik and Viaduct for the monitoring of all She has charged extremely possible pests, which, of course, will protect Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests completely, and all the burden falls on those who have actually caused such arbitration proceedings. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16186	Thank you very much. Commentary, Mr. Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16187	I thank President Zvizdić for his exhaustive response, and I would just like to remind him that the Federation has also been in similar disputes regarding the construction of the Tuzla and Termo Power Plant and that the money has already been compensated, so the debt has been paid off. And it's very certain that we're going to have a negative outcome of this arbitration, so I hope everyone prepares because it's a huge amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16188	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the honourable representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16189	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In February 2015, I proposed that we task the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure the Law prohibiting the challenge of national, religious, racial hatred, as well as any other form of hatred. I remind you this Parliament has adopted this proposal. From that moment on, it is the property of this House. The Council of Ministers, in accordance with Parliament's decision, had an obligation to submit such a proposal in parliamentary procedure by the end of 2015. However, the Council of Ministers has not yet done so, and currently it started in 2017. It is, in my court, one of the essential laws for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for all its citizens and peoples. That is why I asked the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, not to answer whether such a law has been addressed or not, it is clear that the Council of Ministers has not yet realised the decision of the State Parliament, but I am asking the question of public speaking – what are the political factors in this country that are against such a law?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16190	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16191	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. So, according to the initiative launched, which was discussed by the honourable representative, for the draft law on banning, challenging and spreading national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina immediately after such an initiative, so already in June 2015, the Council of Ministers commissioned the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to start working to prepare and draft this law. In this regard, the ministry formed one working group for the making of laws, and indeed included all relevant entities in the working group, so from representatives of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the Directorate for European Integration, the Federal Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Brcko District, the Interreligious Council, the Ministry of Human Rights, etc. Following several meetings that analysed the existing legal framework applicable in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the task force came to the conclusion that this area, based on existing legal solutions in the region, was in fact governed by criminal laws, and made up one Information to the Council of Ministers, in which it was proposed that, instead of drafting the law, the draft amending and supplementing the BiH Criminal Law, which, together with the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, had been entrusted to the Ministry of Justice to carry out the necessary amendments and supplementing BiH's criminal law, in order to improve its legal framework and in a way that, in addition to the existing crimes involved in causing and spreading national, religious, racial and other forms of hatred in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think such changes and additions to the Criminal Law will be passed very quickly on to the Council of Ministers and forwarded further to the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16192	Thank you very much. Commentary, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16193	So there is not a single parliament in the world that can show satisfaction with the fact that the executive body does not implement the decisions adopted by that parliament, so in this case too, unfortunately. What is the essence of this proposal is more than clear, and in which form it will be realised it is already a second question. Whether it will be as Parliament has decided to lex specialis law that will prohibit the challenge of national, religious and any other hatred in this country or that some proposal by the Council of Ministers will come in order to fix the Criminal Law so that this issue can be resolved now and to the Council of Ministers and Parliament. But unfortunately, we have no laws, no amendments or additions to that law. And at this point, therefore, I want to show dissatisfaction with that fact and say that I will continue, I believe, as the other colleagues here, to insist that as soon as possible this law, Lex specialis law or any amendments and additions to the Criminal Law come here in parliamentary procedure. It's really one of our essential laws right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16194	Thank you very much. 8 Now the word has the esteemed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16195	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. My parliamentary question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić, and it concerns the Council of Ministers' decision in 2004, and under which the categorisation of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions was carried out in the position (3) of this Decision. And on the basis of this categorisation, a basis has been set for all the employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions on the length of the annual vacation, in such a way that 25 working days of vacation are held by managers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, 20 working days by other civil servants and 18 working days by subsistence. My question is: Is this decision, which has been in force since 2004, a discrimination against the employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions for the reason that, starting with fundamental human principles, but also the fact that we all work 8 hours, it is unclear why a single starting basis is not defined on the duration of the annual vacations for all persons employed in institutions, regardless of what position they are working on, and then that according to the length of the employment, the conditions under which someone works or lives and the health status of the employees is added to the additional days of vacation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16196	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16197	Thank you. I will answer this question briefly, even though last time I said yes and asked that the questions that come down to me and the members of the Council of Ministers be addressed in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. A large part of the question came yesterday only after 16 hours, and it was due as far as 10 hours as it was defined by the Rules of Procedure. As far as this issue is concerned, I would also very much like to recommend, if I can, to the honourable representative to turn him into a kind of initiative to the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers be made clear on the provisions of this sublegal act adopted in 2004, and that, on the basis of certain opinions and guidelines that we have received from the BiH Ombudsman institution, in which one principle position is taken that all employees should have the same basis, so to start from 18 days, and that up to 30 days, as far as possible and as far as possible, specific criteria such as years of employment, weight of jobs and tasks, social status, number of underage children, etc. So, instead of answering this question, which can be like this, it's completely dry, that this is a sublegal act that is currently in line with the Law on State Service and the Labour of BiH, to turn into an initiative that would then be on the Council of Ministers and based on which we would consider these provisions of the sublaw and possibly amend them, including amendments to the Law on State Service and the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16198	Thank you very much. Honorable representative, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16199	First, I find it unclear that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is whether what you have told me at the beginning that by 16 o'clock you have received some parliamentary questions, whether it concerns my question or whether you should have received the time to give me such an unconclusive answer, it is now up to you whether it is so or not. My question was addressed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and went to the Council of Ministers on Friday, and I further tried yesterday to deliver to the gentlemen the Opinion of the Ombudsman for Human Rights. Mr. Zvizdić, it's not that I run the initiatives, it's mine to ask. From your answer, you made it clear to me that this decision is discriminatory against those employed by the Council of Ministers, which would be a sufficient signal for the Council of Ministers for you to work to amend and supplement, i.e. to remove these legal norms or sublegal acts. I ask you to deliver everything you have told me in writing, and accordingly, unless you do anything, I will be able to address this initiative on amendments and additions to the Labour Act in the institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16200	Thank you very much. I give my word to distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16201	I thank the chairman and welcome you, deputies, colleagues, colleagues and everyone else present. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The Honorable Chairman, Prime Minister, as you prefer, says man is master of unspoken and slave of spoken words. You, the moment you read your exposés in this room, have become a slave to the 12th,713 words you have spoken here, and your exposé is an inexhaustible source of ideas for questions for you, since you have made promises of which one good part I must say that I support. Thinking about what to ask you today, there was this long list of possibilities to ask you how far it came with the formation of the National Security Council, as long as you came with the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture at the state level, what about the many promised strategies, as long as you were with ensuring the equality of the people and citizens, empowering BH institutions, political stability as a priority, but yet I chose something completely different. I will pitati you – How long have you come with the establishment of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which you promised, and what about the creation and adoption of the Law on Strategic Investors and Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina? I remind you that as one of the priorities of the economic ones, that the aim of forming that bank is, of course, to enable the growth of investment at the state level, that you promised us a sustainable and even economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is what counterpart Šepić is asking you nonstop, that through the Investment Law and investors you promised us a relief for them, and prosperity 10 for the state. And here's the thing, I'm out of time, I'm gonna stop here, and I'm gonna comment when I don't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16202	As for the weather, it's very, very polite. Uh, but here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16203	So, I want to warn again in the way of asking questions, the question is asked specifically not from the area, as the distinguished representative Magazinović did, he looked only at my exposés, he has just as many words as he said, so 30 densely typed pages and I will answer in the future only when I know in advance a very specific question that is related to my exposés. As far as the exposé itself is concerned, it is related to the term of office, so not for two years as it has passed, I must say that I and the Council of Ministers are more than satisfied with the progress made and made in relation to the blockades we have encountered by the Council of Ministers in which they are one of the most important and dominant roles... members of the party from which Mr Magazinović comes, which raises the question. So we are satisfied with the progress, and ultimately we will give a proper analysis of all promises, i.e. the overall analysis of the exposure itself, when the mandate for which the exposures apply is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16204	Commentary, Mr. Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16205	As I said after I don't get an answer, I will comment and here I will use the words of the Prime Minister or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of Expose. The first thing, he praised in his exposé his predecessor, Mr. Bevanda, and what the Council of Ministers did under his leadership, which is quite the opposite of what he just said. That's one thing. And the other thing, he said in the end, the only obstacle to the implementation of proposed exposé activities is the lack of political will, so if I understand correctly what the Council of Ministers or Prime Ministers Chairman said, I think he answered himself, so here the reason is one, one general, general lack of political will and one reluctantness. And as for asking questions, Article 168(2) says – a sign of the area to which the question concerns, if I should tell you in which order in your exposé is the question, if you don't know what you promised, it's already not my problem but yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16206	Thank you very much. I give my word to the honourable representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I welcome everyone present in the O.R. 11 My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the area, the issue refers to the non-implementation of part of the Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other disasters. Namely, the Framework Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents provides for the Council of Ministers to manage the system of protection and rescue when natural and other disasters exceed the capacity of lower levels of government. The BiH Council of Ministers declares the situation of natural or other accidents in one part or the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a proposal from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Coordination Body for protection and rescue, or at the request of entity authorities or Brcko District, which have already declared the state of natural or other accidents. The BiH Council of Ministers' Framework Law is responsible, among other things, for the formation of a mixed special unit for protection and rescue. This unit shall be activated in the case of natural and other accidents, as well as for participation in international exercises, assistance operations and other activities. Since the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions in the Report on the Impact Review on the Theme – The activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions for the implementation of protection and rescue in natural or other accidents found that a mixed unit was not formed and that the Council of Ministers is responsible for the formation of the same, I ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, means: 1. Has this unit been formed in the period until delivery, since the delivery of the report to date? 2. If not, is it planned in the first half of this year to step up activities together with the Ministry of Security to find an optimal solution that will lead to the implementation of this legal provision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16208	Thank you very much. Answer, Minister of Security. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16209	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs. As regards this parliamentary issue, I would say that the Ministry of Security is trying to implement this obligation in a longer period of time, and it is not yet completed, and we have passed on this obligation in 2017. The optimal solution is seen through the undertaken Euro-integration obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the EU civil protection mechanism and membership in the European Union. The EU provides more than 2.5m euros in equipment and training for the operational structures of civil protection of entities and Brcko District, different specialities, flood defence, water rescue, urban search, earthquake rescue and RHB protection, which entity governments should declare to specialised units and give them the role of mixed units, give them a role in mixed units in line with the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue. This legal obligation is a kind of obligation towards the EU, harmonisation, therefore, with EU standards. The entity governments have not yet completed the process of declaring these units specialising in order to allow them to join a mixed rescue unit in Bosnia and Herzegovina and international disaster assistance missions. Without these decisions, the government is unable to organise, therefore, neither the workshop nor the decision to form this mixed unit. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16210	Thank you. Honorable representative, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16211	So here I thank the Minister for the answer given, here's what I don't know what he'd say, uh, obviously when it comes to solving this problem, which is also an obligation for the EU, to step up activities that, together with entity governments, are we implementing this obligation as quickly as possible. Not only would this mixed unit be of assistance in situations of natural and other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but certainly it would in some way improve the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world, given that Bosnia and Herzegovina has been a recipient of assistance for a long time, we could, with such a unit, come out, to Europe, to help others, as we have these special units of the Armed Forces or the Ministry of Interior that participate in certain missions. So I think it would be very important to step up the activity and as quickly as possible, here's to say, to realize this obligation and to form this unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16212	The word has a distinguished representative, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16213	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman and Madam Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question is: When does the BiH Ministry of Justice intend to reform the Law on Executive Procedure to effectively reduce the backlog, a significant delay in resolving municipal cases in courts and to introduce judicial mediation? The European Commission's 2016 Progress Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina said that some progress has been made in meeting some of last year's recommendations on accountability and efficiency of judicial integrity. However, a number of recommendations have not been met, no action plan has been adopted for the implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy for the period 2014-2018. years, and the slow resolution of lagging municipal cases in courts and inadequate procedures for enforcement of court decisions continue to disrupt the efficiency of judicial authorities. Most of the remaining outstanding items are unpaid bills for municipal services, more than 1.7 million since June 2016. On the day of 30.06, there were 289 923 unsolved cases, representing 52.97% of all cases not solved in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to achieve better results on the reduction of the lagging system, it is necessary to improve the overall legislative and institutional measures, in particular the amendments to the entity law on the executive procedure and the more effective collection of claims, i.e. to reform the Implementing Procedure Act in order to effectively reduce the backlog and introduce judicial mediation in selected pilots, which are designated by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16214	Thank you very much. The word has a minister of justice in the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16215	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman, MPs, MPs, Council of Ministers colleagues, ladies and gentlemen first apologize for having some obligations this morning, and I also had two questions here, so I was a little late. As regards the answer to this particular question, the European Commission has recommended following the second meeting of the Structural Dialogue, which took place at the end of 2011, on the issue of unresolved old cases, the introduction of a series of measures to reduce the large inflow of cases of unpaid municipal accounts, such as the resolution of municipal cases outside courts, the transfer of the non-judicial part of the executive to private or public agencies for the execution and transfer of out-of-parn property items to notaries, all in the jurisdiction of entities, municipalities, or district courts. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH discussed all the preliminary recommendations of the European Commission concerning the implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy and concluded that the executive procedure should be reformed in a way that reduces the jurisdiction of courts in the executive procedure and recommended the transfer of certain jurisdiction of courts to institutions outside the judicial system and that: (a) to municipal enterprises, i.e. the transfer of competences with regard to the implementation of the first-degree procedure and the procedure under appeal; b) to notaries and c) private perpetrators, i.e. public agencies at the stage of the collection of claims. Recommendations were submitted to the competent entity justice ministries, the Strategy, mentioned, for reforming the justice sector for the period 2014-2018. In part of the efficiency and effectiveness of the judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the problem of unresolved cases in the executive process has been recognised, among other things, as regards the payment of claims for public services performed. As a solution to this problem in the Strategy, it is intended to develop an analysis of the possibility of improving the executive procedure and individual extra-parity procedures through the transfer of competence to other entities and to refer the proposal to the procedure as well as to amend existing legal and sub-legislative acts for the removal of the executive procedure and individual extra-parisal proceedings and courts in accordance with the analysis made. As holders of this task, the real authorities of the entity and the Brcko District of BiH have been designated. Furthermore, the Strategy also recognises the need to affirm the judicial settlement of mediation and arbitration as an alternative way of resolving disputes, as well as to draw up an analysis and proposals to amend and supplement legal and sublegal acts to improve the mediation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16216	Thank you. Honorable representative, commentary. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16217	I thank the chairman. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has launched a system to improve the record of unpaid accounts in 22 municipal, i.e. the basic court and 14 municipal enterprises, and thus enables direct processing. However, there remains a rather bitter taste of real reality and the fact that the average duration of proceedings in such a kind of litigation case in front of first-degree courts is reduced by 511 days, has been reduced by 10 days, but it is still a very long period of time and I hope that you as a resolute ministry will make significant efforts to improve the given laws and what I have proposed as a representative and, of course, what the European Commission has given the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16218	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16219	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. One of the biggest issues, the problems we have in this country is that people leave this country, I've tried, I've initiated, I've asked questions to open up a debate in which we're going to honestly talk about it, about the problem. Unfortunately, our governments entertained themselves, in some way burdened by certain completely irrelevant things, have neither the strength nor the capacity to open, discuss the real topics that concern all people in this country. One of the areas most suffering from the departure of people from BiH is health care, so my question today is: What has the Council of Ministers done specifically so far during this term of office, so in these two years, and what is it planning to do to stop or reduce the departure of doctors and medical staff from health institutions in BiH? A brief explanation that I decided today to ask this question. So, the other day I read the information from the Federation of BiH Medical Chamber, which compiled the Information on the basis of information from cantonal medical chambers, which says that in 2016 300 doctors left BiH, that 50 left Bosnia and Herzegovina directly after the completion of the medical school. So, most of it hurts me, especially that it treats me, most of the doctors leaving BiH are from my electoral unit, from Unsko-San canton 80, 50 of them from Tuzla Canton. When every day or very often we listen to how the greatest experts, the people who are important, leave the Clinical and University Center here in Sarajevo, my question is logical – where is all this going, so where is this society general going, where is healthcare going, how will the health care sector end, or health system in BiH? So I would like to ask a concrete answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16220	Minister of Civil Affairs, please. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16221	Honorable chairman, esteemed MPs. The responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is set out in Article 15. The law on the BiH administration's ministries and other bodies under which the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for carrying out operations, carrying out tasks in Bosnia and Herzegovina's responsibilities and concerning the establishment of basic principles of coordination of activities and the harmonisation of the plans of the entity bodies of authorities and the definition of the strategy on the international plan, including in the field of health. In view of the Law of Defined Jurisdiction, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has continued to implement activities aimed at strengthening the capacities of health institutions and thus improving the conditions for the work of health workers and creating conditions for long-term and sustainable provision of health services. In the past two years, the BiH Civilian Ministry in co-operation with the Japanese government has implemented a donation of medical equipment to health institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina totaling around 1.5 million KM. Endoscopy equipment and software for computer radiography were obtained. In 2017, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs will continue co-ordination of these activities in co-operation with the Government of Japan to work on the realization of two projects, one in the height of 510 000 KM, the second in the amount of 580,000 KM for medical equipment purchase. In addition to these activities, which are realised with the aim of strengthening the capacities of health institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and improving the conditions for the work of health workers, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs also focuses on strengthening public health capacities during 2016. The US Center for the Control and Prevention of CDC Diseases, based on the application of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, has approved Bosnia and Herzegovina's means of implementing the project – Strengthening the capacity to monitor and respond to aviation and pandemic influenza in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the total value of $2m. In order to meet the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, reports to the World Health Organisation of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs have been established by the Working Group on the Implementation of the World Health Organisation's Global Code on International Employment of Health Professionals in mid-2015 (?) representatives of the entity health ministries, the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, the BiH Statistics Agency and the World Health Organisation Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina are also involved in the work. According to available information from competent institutions, it has been found that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not exist, that there is no system in Bosnia and Herzegovina to monitor the movement of healthcare professionals, especially beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Recommendation of the Working Group on the Implementation of the Global Health Organization Code on International Employment of Health Workers is to include entity employment services, medical chambers at all levels of government and other institutions considered to be able to contribute more effectively to monitoring information defined by the World Health Organisation Code. The organisation, financing and providing health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the responsibility of entities, 10 cantons in the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District of BiH. The principles, measures, how health care is organised and implemented, as well as how health care is performed and supervised, are laid down by the Health Protection Act of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District of BiH. The strategic management of health care is responsible for the entity health ministries and the Brcko District of BiH Health Department.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16222	Thank you. Commentary, Your Honor, Mr. Šepić. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16223	Well, I know the competences of this country, and it's not disputed that we all know jurisdiction, but the question is, how much we're dealing with this, how much do we coordinate, how much of this stuff we put on the agenda at all. So, if it doesn't say there in the jurisdiction that it's your direct jurisdiction, it doesn't say you have any right to do that. You have a Health Ministers' Conference, so you have a mechanism to discuss these topics and over which you can have it on the agenda. 350 people have left the Federation in one year, on average 100 million marks on an annual level of loss of capital from this country. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina belongs to a group of countries with the highest health departments, and you know how about health care and we are now the basic story our story has no jurisdiction, China gave this, Japan gave that. So, please, I'm talking about the need for these to be the topics that this country will deal with and which institutions in this country will deal with. And so here's my, what's called, initiative to the Council of Ministers, in the coming period, in the next month, in the 45-day longest, so to hold the debate, prepare health status information in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a proposal for measures for the sustainability of the health system in BiH, if it has no capacity to do this government, then I don't know what we need the government at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16224	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16225	Dear chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, media and others present. My question is essentially a repeat question with the 39th session and I'll explain the short reason. Last time, last time and last time I asked the question, I got an answer from the Ministry, and that's why I'm glad to see the minister today, that they didn't get the time, that I can't give the answer now, so I'm glad that today the minister is here and I'm going to repeat, I'm going to repeat this question, and I hope I get the answer, and the question is simple and multiple times repeated. So, the question is, given the difficult financial situation on BHRT and the need to take certain measures – What does the competent ministry do to stop negative financial and other trends, and does the ministry work to amend and supplement the Law on the Public TV System of BiH with an emphasis on part of the Law that regulates the financing of the Public TV system? I'll give an explanation after the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16226	Minister of Transport and Communications, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16227	The honourable representative about 5 months ago, one of the Council of Ministers' conclusions was to form a working group to work on revising the existing Law, which we all found to be missing from its creation, means about ten years ago. Three times this was sent by the Ministry of Emergency to deliver people's names to this task force and we only got our last name in the first half of December 2016. After that, we sent 17 opinions to the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, because this working group does not need any additional funding, but we need that opinion, and I believe that we will get that opinion already this week. I've already contacted the people who are in that resolute task force and they're going to start reviewing the existing law. We are also familiar with MP Mirsad Mešić's initiative on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public TV Service in BiH in a way that the collection of RTTV tax through the telecom operator extends to the conclusion of 31.12.2017. The state of this initiative is currently the only possible transitional solution in order to allow space to step up efforts to overcome this problem and to find a sustainable model of billing for RTTV, which is exactly what this Working Group should do. We believe that the existing provisions of the Law when it comes to the billing model are clear and, as such, should be respected by all parties involved, so that public TV services in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not run out of income necessary for their financing. Here again I will return to the summary of the answer, we will call this Interresor Working Group in the next week and I would, of course, like you to be at this meeting as one of the promoters and giving this initiative and to be a direct witness in which it will go, and this is something that you can fully count on, and we are definitely in the interest of solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16228	Thank you to the Honorable Minister. The word has a distinguished representative, a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16229	I am pleased with the answer, I hope that those who are following the problem in this area have heard today from the Ministers who are activities and the Interresor Working Group and all the activities that will follow and we have today and on the agenda a transitional solution that only, with which we get time to solve this problem. And we have also had a number of attempts in Parliament to solve this problem. To me today was the goal of hearing personally from the minister what activities are planned, and seeing these activities go. What asked me to ask this again? It was created by a public image that all the way to parliamentarians, very often called, asked, journalists were interested and it is natural to ask and it is said that it is only up to us and is up to us, but a coordinated work of executive and legislative authorities on such a sensitive problem must exist. I hope that we will soon have the solution that the Interresor Working Group will offer under the auspices of both the Ministry and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16230	Thank you. Now I give my word to the honourable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16231	I thank the chairman. My question was addressed to Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister, however, as well as to all previous times when I tried to do so, and the deputy was not there. I will certainly ask 18 questions, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask for an opportunity to re-seat it at the next session. In any case, the question is: How many countries abolished visas for ordinary travel documents from Bosnia and Herzegovina between 31/03/2015 and 17 January 2017, or during the current Council of Ministers' meeting? The data I have is that it is only three countries, so during this two-year period for which the foreign minister is responsible. What is particularly worrying is that in that same period we fell, we fell in comparison with other countries in the end of 2014, we welcomed the 42nd place, and we welcomed the 52nd place at the end of 2016. Our citizens can do without a visa with ordinary passports in only 101 countries. Slovenia has been in the 12th place of 164 countries open without visas, Croatia is 22nd in 149 countries, Serbia is 43rd in front of us, Macedonia in 45th place, Montenegro is 47th in place. Of the European countries behind us are only Belarus, Ukraine and Albania, because this year Moldova has caught up with us. According to this trend, Albania, which is only one place behind us now, will catch up with us and outreach us next year. So it's really about catastrophic data. And as for the remarks made by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I fully agree that answers should be delivered faster, questions to the Council of Ministers, but look at the stamps on all issues, five questions were submitted on Monday, two last Thursday, and even five more last year, only two delivered yesterday morning, in any case before 10:00 p.m. So, this shows that someone in a service is not doing their job well, and I will ask the Secretary of the House to determine whether these are failures, these failures of the responsibility of officials in this House, and which, in particular, are to the officials of the Council of Ministers. In any case, it's obvious that public officials aren't doing well somewhere, and I'm not sure we should be running behind the Gasal-Gasal-Vražalica initiative to reward them with extra vacation days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16232	Thank you very much. The foreign minister and his deputy are not here, I would ask the Council of Ministers for the next meeting of the House of Representatives to be held on 16 February, that this, too, pre-declaration agenda, come from the Ministry and answer this question. And in the end, I give my word to the esteemed representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, my question has been addressed to the defence minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina – When will the decision on special bonuses on salaries for professional military personnel at the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of BiH and civilian persons at the service in the Armed Forces of BiH? In fact, in the procedure, i.e. a commission has been formed which, long ago in 2014, has made an example of this decision, and until today, it is not in the Council of Ministers' procedure, so here I am asking the Minister's question – which is why it is waiting so long since there are a number of irregularities in the already existing Decision applicable to the payment of salaries to members of the Armed Forces? 19
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16234	Thank you very much. The word has been given by a respected defence minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16235	Mr. Chairman, the chairman, the envoys and the envoys. I thank Mr Mehmedović for asking the question, and I would like to inform you that in carrying out regular activities within the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces BiH has identified the need to analyse the decision-making process that would treat compensation for difficult or specific labour duties in the Armed Forces of BiH. The intensity was that on the basis of the complexity and principles laid down by the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, duties and jobs that have not been valorised so far for the exercise of the right to compensation have been recognised. In preparation and review of the draft decision in question during 2015, I held broad consultations in which my deputies participated at the time. As the decision also included civil persons at the BiH Armed Forces service, it was concluded that the amendments to the Law on Payments and Refunds in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to continue with the financial analyses necessary to find the means to implement the Law, in particular in the light of the fact that the adoption of such a decision involves additional financial resources of the circus of 4.5 million KM of labour marks that involve the field, trade and trade services, the destruction of unexploded mine explosives, and the redefining of fees for pilots and deminers by the percentage rate model of compensation compared to the effective arrangement. In line with the above, the Ministry of Defence has launched a procedure for amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the budget approval procedures have not been approved to increase the budget for the purposes of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence institutions, the adoption of such a decision has been extended. You are aware that changes to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina were launched during 2016 and there is still no end to the procedure for considering here in the Parliamentary Assembly, such a situation implies the need to analyse internal reserves that will allow for a more balanced and fair distribution of sufficient budgets compared to the complexity of tasks, employment space and working conditions. The BiH Defence Ministry is working intensively to find a solution that will be presented before its adoption to the Joint Defence and Security Commission of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16236	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. The word has a distinguished representative, a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16237	Look, I'm satisfied with the answer but I'm not in a state of mind, because the application of existing decisions actually generates injustice between members of the Armed Forces of BiH, because imagine that some employees, officers, officers who work at the Ministry of Defence have a very dangerous arrival and departure from work and therefore have a salary supplement. On the other hand, you have a deminer, you have those who work in warehouses with unexploded means of killing, you have one that works with dangerous substances that have no compensation, or a salary supplement. I would therefore ask that here be 20 of the Ministry of Defence to put these amendments and supplement the Law on Salaries and Refunds as soon as possible to correct the injustice among members of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16238	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, with this question, answer and comment, we have completed this preliminary agenda. Now we're moving to determine the agenda ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Before crossing Mr. Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16240	...a break, I'm sorry, but there's a need for a break. On behalf of the Members' Club, I would like to ask you for a half-hour break before setting the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16241	So, at the request of the SDS Club, I'm giving a 30-minute break, 30 said a half-hour period that I understood. 30 minutes is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16242	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16243	30 minutes, we're going on 11:45 hours. Do we have a quorum secretary? I ask the MPs to take their seats, we proceed with the work. The president or representative of the SDS Club Mr. Bojić asked for a break. Please, do you need an explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16245	I have no need, I apologize, uh, indeed to the Parliamentary Assembly we had the need for further consultations before the session begins and thank you for your patience and here is how much. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16246	We understand nothing, it's your right to seek a break. Now, therefore, we're moving on to honored colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen to determine the agenda. As regards changes to the agenda of the session, I would like to mention the following, the following is added to the agenda: point 3. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-105/17, of 11 January 2017. Point 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administration, Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-11/16, of 06.01.2017, was supplemented by the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, because the Commission's opinion is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Mr. Lazar Prodanović, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16247	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Club, this is what we propose to include a new point in the agenda of this session 41, and it is known to you from earlier times, so it is a decision to resolve the chairman's House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So the decision and the argument were given to MPs, I wouldn't take your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16248	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, how impossible it is to act on a point that is in an emergency procedure and to seek its removal, i.e. non-involvement in the agenda, and it is the Law on the collection of the Public TV Service. So, I suggest not to accept the urgency of the procedure because we had a recent conference in which it was asked to do so and not to remind you now, but if there is a debate, then I will, of course, suggest that this one, not be considered by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16250	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. As for Mr Lovrinović's proposal, therefore, this is in the context of the debate on the procedure, this will be the point of the agenda. 22 I propose to the SNSD Club, which was presented by the vice president of the Club, the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović, put to the vote. Prepare to vote. So 5 votes for, 24 votes against, 10 abstentions. Here, therefore, the proposal was not accepted. I'm saying, you're gonna give me this list, get ready because I'm doing my own paperwork on this, I'm realizing that today's session agenda is the way you got in the call for today's session, complemented by the way I said it. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 40th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-105/17, of 11/01.2017; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Administration Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-11/16, dated 06.01.2017, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 5. Commission Report from the House of Representatives on Effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading), Law No: 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 02.11.2016; 6. Commission Report from the House of Representatives on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović (law in first reading), Law No: 01-02-1-2610/16, 10.10.2016; 7. Report by the Commission of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal from the DF Club for the inclusion of a new item of the 40th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives, which reads: Information on the security-financial aspect of the organisation of the New 2017 in the area within the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and other BiH institutions, act No 01-50-1- 3234/16, of 30.12.2016; 8. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, No: 01,02-02-133/15, of 25.01.2016.; 9. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: "Grant Management in BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-3261/16, dated 30.12.2016; 10. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Planning of budgetary expenditures in BiH institutions”, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-29/17, of 04.01.2017; 11. Information on the assessment and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01,02-41-1257/15, of 02.10.2015, and addition of information, material number: 01,02-41-1257-2/15, of 13.10.2016; 23 12. The BiH Council of Ministers' response to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' initiative, adopted at the 35th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, held on 30.8.2016, material number: 01-50-1906/16, of 22.12.2016; 13. Request of the Interim Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to extend the deadline for preparing and referencing the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, No: 01,02-50-14-1197-14/16, from 29.12.2016; 14. Consideration of the resignation of Vildan Đurović as a member of the BiH Appeal Office, Act No: 01,02-34-1-3232/16, of 28.12.2016, and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Office for the Review of Appeals of BiH, Act No: 01,02-34-1-3232/16, of 06.01.2017; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal, act No: 01,02-50-14-76/17, of 06.01.2017; 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Joint College of both homes of the PSBiH, Act No: 01,02-50-14- 84/17, of 09.01.2017. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 40th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16253	I thank the chairman. Let me just point out, I'm not satisfied with the Ombudsman's response, I'm going to ask an additional parliamentary question. And when it comes to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury's response, I am extremely pleased, not only with the quality of the way in which the answer is prepared, but also with what is in it. And my question was to provide me with the parallel tables that were achieved in 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 when it came to applying the Law on Salaries and Compensations in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, specifically saving on the basis of my law on the reduction of commission fees, i.e. the suspension of commission fees during working hours. Savings for the first 10 months of 2016 and the parallel period is 10 months in 2015 are almost equal to a million marks, so 100 thousand marks per month. This suggests that the final figure on the annual level will be 1,200,000 marks, which is an extremely, extremely high level of savings and this shows that we need to figure out ways to make similar savings. Only comparisons of what can be done with these savings – every year Bosnia and Herzegovina can buy an embassy building, for example in Bulgaria, Romania, we can't in Paris but in countries where we are, in most countries where we are diplomaticly covered, we can buy one embassy building every year. I also just want to point out the biggest savings per institution were achieved at the Directorate for indirect taxation, around 190,000 marks in 10 months and in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In 2015 this Parliamentary Assembly spent 120,000 marks, in 2016 120,000 marks for commission work, and in the same period a year before, before the entry into force of this Act, 366 thousand marks. So 240 thousand marks are savings for 10 months only in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16254	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16255	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. 25 The answer I received on my representative's question concerns Microsoft's licenses, how to plan, how to negotiate and how to pay compensation for the lease of these licences. The answer is so superficial, it doesn't go into the details I expected, so I'm going to ask a more likely additional question again in writing. And this is about the following: licenses, Microsoft's licenses for state institutions in the previous two contracts were paid for about 16 to 17 million dollars, the third contract was signed recently for the next three years for 9.7 million dollars. And one of the basic intentions that I wanted through this question to clarify as a dilemma for this House to be in progress, that three times the contracted leases for licenses are, for example, twice paid, the ownership licenses of the same, the same number, the same amount. What also, by investigating a little bit of this, this question, has intrigued me is planning new licenses in the coming years, in '16, in '17. And in '18. It is planned that compared to the existing number of licenses, rent is paid for an additional 3,800, so 1,890, almost 2,000, and then 897, for which we buy these licenses. If the employment moratorium is put in place and if we have... employees in institutions equipped with computer equipment with licenses that are legally rented, this time I can't say purchased, which are what new employees, employees or civil servants or tenants are getting licenses in this number? So, I'm not satisfied with the essence of the answer that I've received, so I'm going to give the question again with the precisely decidently stated demands that the answer is what makes sense, because putting this kind of money into something that we're not the owner of, and we could be the owner of it, for a lot less money, is something that I really think is, to say, unfairly spent money or unreasonablely spent money on what we didn't have to spend that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16256	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16257	So I have to comment on the non-response, since I have already referred, almost two months have passed since I referred the question to the Council of Ministers concerning travel expenses within the Council of Ministers I have not yet received an answer. I also referred one question to the BiH Presidency Secretariat and it is obvious that they do not want to give an answer so that I will use my opportunity to send the same inquiry to the BiH Prosecutor's Office with a different explanation, so I hope they will then answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16258	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I greet you warmly all here present in the O.R. 26 I, of course, am here before I comment on the answer I received, I want to say that I have already asked the Ministry of Defence for more than two months, I have not yet received an answer, and more than a month ago I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have not yet received an answer, and I believe that this is very incorrect and that this is an extreme disrespect that is being shown to, let me say, I am not going to say excessively to this House, but to me it certainly is. As for the answer to my question that I have asked the Ministry of Transport and Communications, I am extremely pleased with this answer, however, and I am really not happy and I am really surprised that, in addition to so many representatives who are present at all different levels from Tuzla, Tuzla Canton, and also from the region of northeastern Bosnia, because we know that one regional, correct and fully correct regional development is one of the conditions of development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as any other country, that it is possible to refer to this region, this region, Tuzli and Tuzla Canton when the infrastructure is traffic, rail and aircraft in question, it is simply incomprehensible to me. The only thing I can think of is thinking that this part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being punished for something. I am also surprised that in this House we have so many representatives from the region, from this canton and from the city of Tuzla and they are not interested in anything but what they express interest in, and this time Tuzla – Sarajevo, I think there is no worse path in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is said to be a road that has been reconstructed. It is not true, it is not a reconstructed path, it is the worst road infrastructure, and some of that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected in a developmental sense. It is said that there are certain routes but nowhere has that been solved by the Space Plan. Well, whoever they're messing with here, it's nothing but these stories that distract us that there's a solution. I urge all MPs in this House to take any action in the sense of launching an initiative to work on making, improving the infrastructure of travel, rail and aircraft, and not that, thanks to the Mađar, there is something to be commended, of course, that the Tuzlan Airport will have a traffic of over 350,000 passengers this year. It's really somewhere over 30% of all the passengers transported, it's a really impressive figure, but thanks to us, there's been a realisation of that project, we've supported this project. But at least here's another thing we can do to try to fix that infrastructure. Thank you again to this ministry for the answer I received, a very correct answer indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16260	Thank you Dear Representative Hanka Vajzović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16261	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, co-chair, fellow MPs and MPs, all of you, I warmly welcome you. My question on two occasions was about the import of garbage into Neum Municipality. In the first wave, I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Border Police, the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Federal Office for Inspection Affairs, and the second time only to the Federal Administration and that was said – Why does the Federal Office for Job Inspectors approve, so it does nothing to prevent illegal imports of municipal waste from the Republic of Croatia and its disposal in the hinterland of Neum? 27 I received an answer, of course I'm not satisfied, the answer states what they have been doing to resuscitate this garbage dump in Neum since 2013 so the plan has been going on for two years, so I don't know what, it's mostly now at some stage of obtaining approval for construction and all this has been going on for years. What's worrying and not satisfied with the answer is the fact that they all say, everyone I've referred the question to says they don't know anything about it. So worse than the fact that something is such is this knowledge that people who need to solve it actually know nothing about it. And on the other hand, on the side of what's in their job description, especially the Federal Department of Investigation Affairs, who spends the summer there mostly driving around the Gulf of Neum, they don't know anything about it, and they don't seem to be involved in it, no matter what, here even if they followed the media they could see a significant number of contributions dedicated to this problem. So, I'm not happy with the answer, but here's what I do, every time it's like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16262	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16263	I thank the chairman. I'm going to comment first on the answer I got, that's the answer to the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and with this answer I'm satisfied with. All those questions were answered specifically and confirmed by what 17% of our citizens and citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina have already reported on several occasions that the legislative bodies are so executive but also the public themselves. Namely, persons who have been deprived of their constitutional right to form a family in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to persons who are treated or unable to receive and establish a family by natural means are forced to treat reproductive organs, as well as the process of medically assisted insemination. The Committee for Gender Equality has made a maximum effort last year to see the light of the day in Bosnia and Herzegovina's highest legislative body so as not to make this procedure easier for our citizens at least in this legal framework. And since this Law has not seen the light of day or has any understanding of this issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I have additionally addressed the Agency for Medicinal Products in Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide me with information – How much is it worth, costing medicines that must be used in the process of medically assisted fertilisation, i.e. in the treatment of reproductive organs with a complementary analysis of the countries of the Republic of Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia? Indeed, this complementary analysis by the Agency has proved to be the most expensive medicines, it is wholesale prices, the most expensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that our citizens and citizens are forced to set aside the basis for the construction of a family. It's even 40% more expensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina than in Serbia, for example. Furthermore, they state, of course, that no essential list has yet been adopted, as well as that each canton and entity, or any producer, has the right to form its prices, retail prices as appropriate to it. I really hope so, or I'll take all the extra activities to try at least some of these drugs to get on the essential list. 28 Furthermore, the system really states that I received a reply from the Fund for Rehabilitation and Employment of Young Persons with Disabilities, but I did not receive that response personally in the Club, and we regularly open our envelopes, so I will retain my right to comment on this resulting answer at the next session. What I ask you is that I referred to Minister Vjekoslav Mandić on 28.11.2016, so the Federal Ministry of Health, an additional issue concerning medically assisted insemination, and to this day I have not received a single reply, I ask you to direct the emergency and to provide me with this reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16264	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Nikola Lovrinović, a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as my colleague Damir, I will comment on an answer that I have not received. Namely, I ask the College, I asked the last time to urinate at federal television to answer my question, I hope you did, and there is another question to be asked, and this is about the Strategy for Environmental Protection – Ministry of Foreign Trade, also recently I have not received it, so I would also ask that urgency to get it next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16266	Thank you very much. No more reports. We're moving to the point of the three agenda, that's Ad. 3. The request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-105/17, of 11/01/2017 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 12 January 2017, which found that the proposal for a law is in line with the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but does not comply with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives because it does not contain the principles on which the bill was established. On 13 January 2017, the Proposer submitted an explanation of the draft law containing the principles. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Dear representative Diana Zelenika has a word. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16268	I thank and warmly welcome all present. What I'm saying is that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no bad laws, but I think the main problem is that these laws are not respected, but there are no sanctions for non-compliance with the law. I will remind all of us once more of Article 18. The Law on the Public TV System of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or more specifically on its first item alone, does not burden people with others, which says that the way to charge RTTV charges determines and establishes the System Committee. So there are no, uh, obstacles to the Committee of the Systems or the need to assist either the Representative, or the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, so, in my opinion, it is obviously about replacing the thesis in order to hide responsibility. I would therefore ask my colleagues, with all due respect, not to engage in politics and proof of who prefers Bosnia and Herzegovina and who entities, not to campaign for 2018, which I have talked about before, and to book places in public media space, but to deal with sanctioning those who do not do their job and are paid for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16269	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16270	I thank the chairman. Very briefly, I only ask that we do not turn the debate into a procedure to discuss the measure of the law to end the debate on the procedure. I think the reasons for the urgency exist, and it's short and it's urgent, uh, and if an emergency procedure is approved, then start to discuss the metrics. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16271	The point is, this is a procedure debate, I didn't want to interrupt anyone else, otherwise, uh, I only do it when I'm really forced to do it. I'd like to ask the MPs, so this is a debate on the procedure, to stick to the debate on the procedure. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16272	Thank you. So I said something in part in the adoption of the agenda, so I don't think there's any reason why we should be re-adjusting and supplementing the law, and in particular there's no reason to do it in an emergency procedure, because we again have an offer to change Article 42 from the transitional and final provisions of the 2005 Act, and there can't be transitional and final provisions in force for 12 years or 10 years, it really doesn't make sense. So, I won't, of course, support the emergency procedure, and when, if it does, then we'll discuss some other things. Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16273	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16274	I'll just repeat from before the position of the SDA Club that it will support the urgency of the adoption of this law, so we'll support this procedure, and when we open up the debate of all what colleagues here say we can enter the polemics.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16275	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. If no one ever answers my word again, I'm closing the proceedings. We're now moving on to a statement of urgency. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 votes for, 10 votes against, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH entity has a majority, Republika Srpska's entity has no entity majority. Are we going to the second round? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Aren't you guys up for the second round? You're not in now, are you? So there's no agreement in the College to go straight to the second round so this stays for the next session, deciding on this. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Administration Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16278	I thank the Honorable Chairman. This proposal provides for the extension of criminal sanctions for responsible officials in the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina unless they comply with the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, including if they do not submit a report on their work or on the situation in the area for which they were established, unless they submit a report on the enforcement of the laws and other rules on the implementation of development policies, unless they respond to parliamentary questions, and if they do not prepare proposals for the laws, other regulations, acts and similar acts at the request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. To be clear, these obligations that I have just quoted exist in the existing law, however, sanctions for non-compliance do not exist. Article 27, namely, prescribes these obligations but Article 104, which provides for sanctions, does not impose sanctions on non-compliance with those obligations. On the other hand, Article 104 of sanctions in the form of criminal penalties between 150 and 500 KM are already prescribed for 11 cases of non-treatment, including where the responsible persons in the authorities of the administration do not comply with the requirements of the Ombudsman Institution, parties in proceedings, inspectors, etc. So, on the one hand, we have obligations to comply with the demands of the Parliamentary Assembly but we do not have sanctions. On the other hand, we have obligations to comply with the request of the Ombudsman or the inspector and here we have sanctions. So, the Ombudsman we're setting here, when the authority of the administration does not comply with his or her request, the responsible person of the administration's authority is subject to sanctions. When the authority of the administration does not comply with our request, it shall not be subject to sanctions by the responsible person in the authority of the administration. So, completely illogically, it turns out that this Ombudsman, which we are putting and resolving here, is ultimately above us, not as individual MPs, but as bodies, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is illogical, therefore, that sanctions exist, and there are, for not to comply with the requirements of these legal or physical persons, I have also cited parties in procedures, and that sanctions do not exist for non-compliance with the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, its homes, MPs, commissions, etc. However, in addition to all the above...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16279	Just one moment please, so what's with the service, it says the quorum isn't filled, the quorum exists, so I've counted, which is the problem. I apologize to you, Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16280	Nothing, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16281	What does it say here on the quorum monitor isn't filled?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16282	I'm guessing... 32
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16283	Continue the discussion. Technical services, so quorum exists, I have to react, you move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16284	I thank the chairman. So, besides everything I've listed, four members of the Constitutional Legal Commission yesterday did not support the principles of this bill. And I therefore call on MEPs to vote today against the Constitutional Commission Report, to return this proposal to the Commission for a re-determination and then, in accordance with all of these, to make a positive decision as already prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday we heard excuses on the Constitutional Commission, one of the excuses is that again, I think it keeps repeating, that we don't need MPs, that we need a systemic solution, that the Council of Ministers should be delivered etc. etc. What fascinates me is the short memory of some of my colleagues, because in November, that is, the Parliamentary Assembly in November last year, which is not so long ago, means two months ago, I think, just two months ago, refused the proposal of the Council of Ministers, the Proposal for an amendment to the Law on Administration proposed by the Council of Ministers, and at the proposal of the BiH Ministry of Justice. We passed this bill of administration at the House of Representatives, but it fell into the House of Peoples. And by doing so, the bill joined a long series of laws, regardless of whether the motions are MPs and delegates or the Council of Ministers' proposals, but in any case, it is now a worrying set of laws falling into the Parliamentary Assembly, including when they are unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers also adopted the proposal for a law on administration, which fell to the House of Peoples due to the lack of an entity majority from Republika Srpska. Thus, a set of excise laws fell, he was to be adopted in August of last year, unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers, fell here again due to the lack of entity majority. This is how the Drug Act fell, although last week we had confidence that only Mr. Novaković would vote against the Drug Law, the entire Change Alliance eventually voted against the Drug Act, although it was previously adopted by the Council of Ministers. And so on, and so on, I would really exhaust my time if I could just read the titles of all the laws that fell here, no matter what they were supported by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it cannot be taken as a serious excuse that someone will accept something if he proposes a Council of Ministers, and not if he proposes an MP or a club, etc. And what is truly surprising to me is that we have a situation at the beginning of every session where MPs comment on answers, or as was the case with my colleagues Damir Bećirović and Nikola Lovrinović, commenting on the lack of answers from the authority of the administration, and each time they are consterned why they do not get answers, why they get bad answers, etc. Well, until the sanctions are imposed, that's how it's gonna be. What is even more dangerous is if this bill falls today, at one of the next readings, whenever, only then will we send a message to the responsible, or I dare say to the authorities of the administration that they can strengthen their irresponsibility, that they can treat the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with even greater disrespect, because we ourselves do not feel that they should be added, or that we should be added to the list of those where the sanctions do not follow. If we are not taken seriously by these authorities of the administration now, if the College brings itself into a situation that constantly writes letters to the ministers and asks the minority to answer a parliamentary question, to carry out some conclusion at home or both times, so the Parliamentary Assembly, then what can we expect if today or at some next stage we reject this 33 bill which, I say, does not impose sanctions at all, sanctions exist, sanctions are prescribed by the existing Article 104. The law, they only expand, and they amount to 150 to 500 marks for a responsible person who is not necessarily a minister. Very often it ends up in a clerk's drawer. This law, this bill only proposes that these existing sanctions be extended and not followed by the highest legislative authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So it's really incomprehensible why someone would be against it, which is why someone would be against introducing additional order into the state service, which is why someone would be against following European standards. In most EU countries, not acting on the demands of the parliamentary assembly, or their legislative body, whether it was called parliament or something similar to the name in Bosnia and Herzegovina, criminal sanctions have been prescribed for not to act on the requirements of the country's highest legislative authority, and we are here saying that criminal sanctions should not be imposed, i.e. criminal sanctions should not be extended and not to comply with the requirements of such a body. One more thing, when it comes to parliamentary issues, it is easier to respond to the Authority if you submit a request, based on the Freedom of Access Act, than if you ask a parliamentary question, because there are sanctions. And you, if you refuse to do this, you will force me to apply from now on to the authorities of the administration by referring to the Freedom of Access Act instead of referring to what the Administration Act and the Rules of Procedure of this House have given me, which is to ask a parliamentary question. Also, this morning I commented that I was dissatisfied with the response of the Ombudsman Institution, they told me in their response that they also asked the Council of Ministers for further information but did not receive them Remind them that they can use sanctions. [[Employee is warned on time]] So now I can ask the Ombudsman institution to seek sanctions from the authority of the administration, or the Ministry of Human Rights. But I can't do it. [[Employee is warned on time]] And all I'm asking with this proposal is to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16285	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16286	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. First, I have a comment, i.e. a correction of the wrong quote of the chairman, who said – the Law on Management with the amended technical, i.e. corrected technical error. We're discussing the Administration Act, and we haven't had any laws with or without a change in technical error so far. Just because someone at some stage didn't well define the name of the law, no matter if it's for technical or other reasons, doesn't mean that we're discussing the law today with a broken technical error, but the Law on Administration. The other thing, since I'm one of the ones who didn't support the principles of the law, I didn't ask for an excuse and that's the correction of a fellow Arnaut's incorrect claim. So, I didn't ask for an excuse to be against it, because I'd get the impression that I'm against anything a colleague of Arnaut suggests and I'm looking for an excuse for why I'm against it. So I had very clear opinions that made me unprepared to uphold this Law and did not need an excuse. And today I think that I am absolutely right in the discussion that I had on the Constitutional Legal Commission, given that today it is a matter of saying about the negative Report of the Constitutional Commission, I have no intention of, uh, discussing the very 34 laws, because I will discuss the Law itself when it comes to the agenda, and so far we are discussing this Parliament's report on the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16287	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative, deputy chairman Borjan Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16288	Thank you very much. I'm also taking the opportunity to trust all my colleagues and colleagues and all those present. I was also thinking about whether or not I should say about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because in some ways my colleague Novaković has just said it. A colleague earlier warned his colleague that we were discussing urgency, and here in this case we are not discussing the law but the Opinion. But here we have now heard everything that is and I belong to the order of those who did not uphold the principles of this Law. I would like to say that the proposal for a law which we did not support states – that a fine is prescribed for a responsible person from 150 to 500 Marks for a violation for non-compliance by article. I have also tried to see laws on environmental management, in no law on administration, Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, nor the Rules of Procedure of Serbia, Croatia, the National Assembly, etc. Well, according to the Research Sector, parliamentary oversight is not something like this. I have tried to point out to the Constitutional Commission for which reasons, here I would also like to explain that the provisions on criminal liability for non-response of parliamentary matters have not been found since the asking of parliamentary questions is something that falls under parliamentary supervision, sanctions are mostly political, since the initiation of impediments, the replacement of ministers, giving written explanations in the event of inability to answer the question. What you have just said, that some say that they have not received answers, it does not belong to this set of responsibilities in terms of which you have stated, so that the ministarsto of Justice as the Proposer of the Law, and others naturally in our environment, have certainly taken care to prescribe fines for non-compliance with those provisions, but only those who fall within the scope of their responsibilities in terms of, what you say, rocking, I don't know, solving certain things, questions to, I don't know, the Ombudsmans etc. etc. all other issues that actually stem from their responsibilities towards work since delivering the report to parliaments, etc. So once again I repeat the question and answer, i.e. to representative or envoy issues, cannot be put in the same context in these responsibilities that authorities, or body managers, have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16289	Thank you. The word has a esteemed representative, Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16290	I thank the Honorable Chairman. So this isn't how I put it in the same context, dear colleague Krišto, put the Justice Department in place when it proposed a law that is now on the table, and at the head of the Justice Ministry at that time was the piece from your party, from the HDZ. So when HDZ proposed this. Because in Article 27, it says - the authorities of the administration are obliged, at the request of the Parliamentary Assembly, to submit a report on their work, on the situation in the area for which they are educated, law enforcement and other 35 regulations, on the implementation of development policies, to answer the questions of MPs, delegates, or at the request of the Parliamentary Assembly to prepare proposals of laws and other regulations, analytical, information and other materials. So it's someone many, many years before me all united into one, someone many, many years before me considered this to be all one matter and she was all together in article 27. All my bill says is that in Article 104, which prescribes sanctions, you will be punished by 150 to 500 marks if you do not comply with the obligations that someone has already put in Article 27 many years before me. So, that's what this is about, you can't tell me that I've united it, I'm just prescribing, I just want this proposal to prescribe sanctions for non-compliance and this Article 27, which, let me finish, someone many, many years before me prepared. But one more thing, you say countries in the environment, maybe Serbia and Croatia don't have the truth, I looked at it, but most EU countries have sanctions, and a good number of countries over 10 have even criminal sanctions for non-compliance at the demands of their highest legislative authority. Well, I'm glad you called the country in the environment, because I will, of course, use it when it comes to sexual equality, etc. etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16291	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will support Mr Arnaut's proposal for the simple reason why I want someone to be responsible for the Parliamentary Assembly, it seems that in Bosnia and Herzegovina you can be responsible for everyone but you cannot be responsible here for the Parliamentary Assembly, starting with the Council of Ministers and so on. This, article 27, is precise, says – the authorities of the administration are responsible to the Parliamentary Assembly for the legal, full, efficient and professional performance of the affairs under its jurisdiction. That's why at the end of each law we have criminal provisions and I guess those criminal provisions have to withdraw those members where responsibility stands, where responsibility has been expressed, and this one is precisely held accountable, without further ado, I don't care. For this reason, there is no logic in my mind to be excluded from sanctions, to be excluded from sanctions by the responsible person in the authorities of the administration, there is no logic at all. In the end, if we want to set up a logical law, then Article 27 should be changed if we do not end up introducing this sanction, which is not so difficult, dangerous, etc. I am saying this for one more reason because I am a member of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to draft the Law on Parliamentary Control and where I have analysed the existing legislative procedure, this, I have already referred to the Interim Commission a proposal that this matter be sanctioned through the Law on Parliamentary Control and it would not be a bad thing if we had previously resolved the issue through this Law, and for this reason I call on fellow Members to support this proposal by Mr Arnaut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16293	Thank you. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16294	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. The answer whether this is or not lies on the other side, there is no one and what we agree to, on responsibility to the citizens, and on the inability to do our job because we are being obstructed. Can we agree to that and what are the formal reasons we need at this point to say whether or not we would. Look at that side, is this the parliament of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Because in everything called modern democracy, it is parliamentary, the role of executive power is that the answer to the Parliament that chose it is. They did not elect us, we were elected by the citizens and we are responsible for them and we carry these mandates that must justify their duration in front of the citizens and not before the Council of Ministers, which is unable to plan their work, that one, twice in one month, dedicate us to at least 50% of the capacity. Ignoring this Parliament, not underestimating this Parliament when meetings are scheduled during its session, to which the entire Council of Ministers is absent. Should we agree to that? And is it this way when we refuse to sharpen the methods of responsibility, we actually justify that we are on the verge of the role of power, that we are not the essence of responsibility towards the electoral body, that these are political parties, executive power and we need here in parliaments just to raise our hand and dissension. I don't agree to that, and I'll vote to take the course of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16295	Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here I would have gone back to that discussion of mys when the comments were on questions, where I took the opportunity to say that more than two months ago I asked the Ministry of Defence, and that more than a month ago I asked the Foreign Ministry a question, of course, sometimes a representative of the Ministry of Defence or a minister of defense appeared, while the representative or foreign minister never showed up here. I think it is an absolute reflection of disrespect for me personally, whether someone else will feel that it is an expression of disrespect for Parliament that is up to the others, but I don't think this really is, it's wrong for them not to get answers to questions. However, this is not the only law that does not provide for sanctions and any law that we adopt, and where sanctions are not provided for, it has caused chaos in everyday life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm going to say one more law besides this, which is the Law on Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where everything is agreed, all something prescribed, but a clear signal that anyone can do whatever they want or do nothing, there won't be any sleighes. It is therefore not good not to apply sanctions to those who, in the most direct manner, do not comply with the obligations imposed before them by the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is obviously not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16297	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 37 I will only have one comment, I say I will not discuss the Law until it comes, but this one I now sign the discussion of Mr. Škaljić, I also sign Mr. Đonlagić's discussion, but this law does not solve it. So, I'm absolutely for these chairs to be full there and I think it's very ugly that today is so, I think it's very ugly that after two months we don't get answers to parliamentary questions, which are sometimes very simple, not even looking for some special time, so, but that doesn't solve this law on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16299	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, a respected representative, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16300	I thank the chairman. So, as it is kind of a negative attitude of the Constitutional Commission, I will try to stay within that framework and say, so why was I also against the principle. Because right now, I remind you, we have a procedure for amending the Rules of Procedure and that I can all deliver the way, and I, among other things, have discussed at one of the sessions on this subject and asked the Rules of Procedure to get rid of it a little differently. A colleague Arnaut told me at the session that it was different when it was resolved by law, which I agree with, but it is the same whether it is funny for Parliament to punish its minister with 300 marks for not answering him when he can and to replace him if that is the case. So, the question is whether it can be solved this way as counterpart Novaković said, and it is also a matter for the Rules of Procedure, so whether it is counterproductive for the Council of Ministers to sit with us for 15 hours or to do their job or only to be when it is their point, so these are a lot of questions that are now settled in the Rules of Procedure in the way they are, but here we will have a chance to resolve it first of all to the Rules of Procedure, so I also said at the Committee's meeting that it might be better to wait to see if we can solve it with the Rules of Procedure, and possibly by law. I also appreciate that by law it's clear, clearly that it's, uh, as I say, clearer, tighter, etc. More answered, but here I was supposed to wait for me to finish the story of the Rules of Procedure and maybe try to find a solution to these questions, and then eventually intervene on one of the laws. I also think that this is impossible to resolve by this Law and this is how it was set up and that is why I was on the Committee the way I voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16301	Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16302	Well, here's a colleague and a colleague of mine, and I didn't mean to report on this agenda, but just some colleagues just woke up some discussions like this. First of all, we will be against the negative opinion of the SDA Club. And the other side of my discussion, because we MPs here are going to be doing changes to the Rules of Procedure, but we MPs are often in a situation where we can't replicate to our colleagues when we ask questions. Well, here we had a comment earlier, a well-intentioned comment, so it's not a replica, that there's a lot of us Tuzlani Canton MPs, so we're surprised that we didn't react, and there's going to be a single initiative where we all the Tuzlan canton MPs from all the parties responded to the situation, let's say, communication. This is just an example, and there are plenty of examples where we break all the Rules of Procedure and we're all looking for holes in this Rules of Procedure. And why the Council of Ministers doesn't have it here, that's what I'm wondering, really, the Council of Ministers 38 is our coalition, I'm telling my colleagues from the SBB, is that what they expect is probably an emergency, although most urgent is when Parliament is sitting down that the representatives of the executive government are here. Without the coordination of the executive and legislative authorities, difficult problems in this country can be solved. I used this, I broke the Rules of Procedure a little bit, but I'm going back to the agenda point, and we're going to be against negative opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16303	Thank you very much. For your information, so there's a Council of Ministers session in progress, so just so much, I'm just notifying you, and how you're going to comment and think that's your position right now, this is the fact that I've brought up. We're going to the point, the esteemed representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16304	Thank you. Just so we're clear, since my colleague Lovrinović said it on the Commission yesterday and now he's repeated it can't be resolved by the Rules of Procedure, so the law prescribes sanctions, the Rules of Procedure can't be above the law, and we already have no legal obligation. The second thing, I agree with the chairman, is currently a Council of Ministers session, but when it is not a session, there is no better situation at all. What I fear most is what the Council of Ministers' relationship to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will look like if this Law is rejected, if we send, I say, today or at some next stage of the message that we do not want to help ourselves, that we ourselves do not want to introduce order into the body that is subordinate to us. And that's what's the most dangerous message. And finally, this House of Representatives session was scheduled long ago, a Council of Ministers session was scheduled for Friday, and they knew it was a session of the House of Representatives. So it can't be an excuse and I think it's really time for order to be introduced into this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16305	I'm closing the debate. We're going to the five-day stand, Ad. 5. Commission Report from the House of Representatives on Effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading), Law No: 01,02-02-1-2804/16, of 02.11.2016 A colleague of the House working as a commission has not reached agreement on the Bill's Proposal, the Conciliation Report you received, no debate on this agenda point, we will vote at the end of the session. 39 Point six, we move to point six, Ad. Six. Commission Report from the House of Representatives on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović (Law in First Reading), Law No: 01-02-1-2610/16, of 10.10.2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to make a brief comment on the material in question, but first I would like to point out that this Impact Review Report on the subject – The management of grants in BiH institutions confirms that the Office for Auditing BiH institutions is responsible, a professional and independent institution that has given a very objective, clear and concrete assessment of the existing way of managing the grant. Since the public is very interested in this topic, it seems important for me to list the parts of the report in question that are best represented by the existing grant management system. The summary of this Report recognises the weakness and irregularities in the current practice of granting grants from the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions budget, and we have witnessed that very often there has been a discussion in this House that expressed dissatisfaction with the procedures, selective and non-transparent means of granting financial resources, which were planned as grants to non-profit civil society organisations, associations of citizens, sports and cultural collectives or as capital grants for certain projects or public buildings. The report states, and this is no longer a political story, primarily a political story from the opposition, but it is an official find of the audit, that the existing way of managing the grant in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not effective, is not aimed at achieving the results, there are no indications whether and to what extent the situation has been improved and in one area for which grants have been allocated. There are no clear objectives and results to be achieved through grants. They are not equated with the amount of financial resources requested when planning budgets for grant institutions. There is no transparency of the rules for the grant of grenades, these regulations are mostly preserved in those institutions that grant grants and are far from the eyes of the public. We do not apply the prescribed procedure for the grant and where there are prescribed procedures we witness that they are often visited or not extremely transparent, nor available to those who wish to participate in the grant procedure. The grant method is not transparent, the criteria for the grant of grenades are not fully quantifiable and clear. The criteria do not apply to all grant users and when we have criteria then some grant users are privileged and all criteria are not applied to them. The criteria set out in the cases were also established on a discriminatory basis, 41 unfortunately, we have criteria that place them in a subordinate position and discriminate against those who want to participate in grant procedures, and are very interested in them. The choice of users is not carried out in accordance with established criteria and this is a familiar practice for us. There is no established way in which the allocation of funds per user is carried out, no exchange of data on grant users, no reporting showing the results achieved, no reporting showing the objectives achieved, no analysis, no evaluation of the results achieved and the objectives for the granted grants through the regular report on the implementation of the budget shall be given. All this is true truth and true image of the former and already established practice of granting grenades. But we have to agree, this isn't just a state-level practice, it's a very similar situation at lower levels of government, so we can say that there's already a system where grenades are deployed by those who participate in the executive government and that's part of the budget that only they manage. From those facts identified by this impact review, we can conclude that the existing way of managing grants serves only those who at some point exercise power and make up the majority, because only they can subjectively, and I would say and voluntarily establish criteria that will only confirm the already predetermined supply of grenade users. This practice has been before, this practice is still on the scene today, and I am aware that this practice will continue to live because we do not have the necessary political will that is ready to advance the existing way of granting. When we ask the question - why isn't this area arranged? Then the answer is logical, those who exercise power want to have a comfortable framework, they want to have as wide a framework as possible so that they can have at least this part of the budget at their will, judgments and once the current moment that requires it. I fully support all 11 of these recommendations for impact review, and if we apply them or say better if we force the Council of Ministers and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to work on the implementation of the recommendations we will significantly improve the transparency and efficiency of budget spending allocated from the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget as grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16312	Thank you. The word has Mr. Mirsad Isaković, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16313	I thank the chairman. The impact review on the subject – The management of grants in BiH institutions, therefore, is one, one, a new approach to the revision that gives us the right results, just what we have said in previous audits that some new method, new way and the new principle of revision of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions gives results. I will Složić with the review, also with my colleague, who says that the existing way of managing grants is not good, is not effective, does not provide answers whether the objectives of the grant have been achieved. The new methodology by, in principle, three principles – the way institutions manage grants, the second – identification of weaknesses and the third – giving recommendations by whose implementation this process would improve. The grant of grants, this audit report said that the grant was not established in a way that ensures transparency, conduct and assumptions for the achievement of the grenade's objectives themselves. Institutions shall not have a monitoring and control system for the purpose of spending funds, and neither shall the reports of the results achieved be accessible, i.e. they are not transparent. I will remind you that this report treats the period from 2014 to 30/09/2016 but only in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is about the amount of 66 million that have been allocated through grants for three years. I want to say 42 at the lower institutions of government there are grenades, from entities, cantons, even municipalities, you can think about what amount this area is about. Institutions where the most important amounts have been realised, i.e. grants, are the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the BiH Return Fund. Other institutions have, too, but these are the most significant. I said they've only been treated for the last three years. You know that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in the previous period had very large amounts of grenades, as well as the Ministry of Human Rights, i.e. for refugees. What, of course, we support all those recommendations made by the revision. The SBB also pointed to this problem on several occasions, both during the adoption of the budget itself and in the discussions that followed after that when it came to the Budget Act. We support all 11 recommendations, and we especially base ourselves, i.e. especially on one conclusion – that the Ministry of Finance develops a unique database of use, the user of grenades. So, as we have assumed, and we have discussed this before, the revision found that, uh, individual users have used more, more grenades from different institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is not excluded that it is not at other levels. So our recommendation is to support all the recommendations, that is, to base ourselves on this unique database that the Ministry of Finance should make. Thank you, there's so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16314	Thank you very much. We're at the very edge of the quorum, I'm calling for services to inform club representatives to come to the O.R. so they don't interrupt the session. If they don't come, I'm gonna have to take a break. Mr. Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16315	... colleagues and colleagues, what we have here, I am also taking the opportunity to welcome you all to today's session and to wish for successful work. Two of my colleagues from the Finance and Budget Committee said nothing concrete about this, about a concrete impact review. I will, on behalf of the Committee and as chairman of the Committee, say a few general things about, otherwise, these constant parliamentary meetings with the audit lately. Almost every session of Parliament, given the increasing frequency of impact audits carried out by the Audit Office, we face these audits. We have also come to the Committee on Finance and Budgets and, in some way, we have come up with one question within the Committee – what are we to do, what is the role of Parliament, which is at all the role of the Committee on Finance and Budget related to these audits and which, I say, is this, what is what Parliament and the Committee on Finance and Budget can achieve that these impact audits can, first of all, be operational, be functional, be useful and be applied and recommended, which are within them, be realised as much as possible? When it comes to reviewing financial reports, we may have a slightly different situation, if nothing at least these reports are annual for everyone, for all 75 institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in some ways the next year's report is a reflection and we can make some comparisons with the previous revision, see to what extent the recommendations are respected, what has been done. Impact audits are new to us. For the last time in the parliamentary session, we had two reports on two impact audits, and today we have two more. In addition to us at the Committee on 43 Finance and Budgets, we accepted this report, and we also suggested to Parliament that it be accepted, we reached one conclusion. That conclusion is bound by the Council of Ministers and by those ministries, which, I say, deals with grants to deliver a report within half a year, not to the Commission, but to Parliament, on what they did to implement the recommendations from this impact review. When and if we get their report, we ask ourselves a question – what shall we do with it? It is likely that the College will return it to the Committee on Finance and Budget, but how we will make these reports and the work of the parliamentary commission and Parliament's work something contribute to the implementation of the recommendations in this section. It remains, in a way, an open question. That's why we at the Committee on Finance and Budget yesterday brought another one of ours, so to speak, the internal conclusion that we're going to have an internal session of the Committee together with the people of the Office of Audit and together with the Council of Ministers, to see how effectively we're going to monitor these impact audits so that they have their own greatest effect. Why am I saying all this? For another reason, we, today on the agenda, will also have the establishment of a commission to deal with the amendments to our Rules of Procedure. Be careful, if we as the Committee on Finance and Budget consistently respect our Rules of Procedure, we should deal only with the implementation of the recommendations of the Audit Office concerning the Parliamentary Assembly, meaning audit, this, concerning this Parliamentary Assembly and no other. I'm saying this for the reason that, uh, at least I think, what we will, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and Budget and propose within that article of the Rules of Procedure, have, I say, and a business-defined little power to follow those recommendations that we receive through the Audit Office's report, whether it's financial reports, whether it's about these impact audits or all of what the Audit Office is going to do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16316	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16317	I thank the chairman. I think about my law I'm really inspired by what my colleague Kožul just said several times, uh, the Commission adopted the conclusions. There seems to have been some debate on that Commission, when and if the Commission receives a reply from the Council of Ministers, etc. etc. then he said it remains an open question and how to resolve it, how to resolve it remains an open question. Just by imposing sanctions, because without sanctions, it seems, unfortunately, that there is no action. The government law has been in force for too long, without sanctions, no action. And that's the answer, so we can, by accepting these changes we can give an answer to your question – how, which you said remains an open question. What is incomprehensible to me is that this is a subject of constantness, so this issue is the subject of constant discussions on committees, on homes, etc. etc. And yes, at least when it comes to the Constitutional Commission yesterday, there seems to be no willingness to really solve it, but to remain prepared to talk about it and then to turn this body into a body that only talks but very little. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16318	Thank you. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16319	I thank the chairman. Well, I can really understand the goal of an esteemed colleague, Arnaut, but it's not true that there's no solution, there's a solution. The fact that we are in this position where we are, this whole Parliament and you and I as part of the majority is our fault. Our fault that we of our members at the Council of Ministers are not asking for responsibility, that we allowed no one to be here today. There are sanctions, let's review the work of our officials, let's see how any of them treat this Parliament. I'm not going to question your minister's work, you question him, and why he's not here during the session, but we within the SDS and the Change Alliance are going to question why there aren't any of our officials here today, especially when their agenda points are. Come on, we're calling you, let's put in order together and force the executive authority to realize that they're putting up with us, not that we're putting up with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16320	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16321	Well, here's to me joining this new way. Namely, first I support the discussion of my colleague Pandurević, but I have to ask another dilemma, there are 22 of us here right now, 21 of us just now, whether we're going to ask a question and our responsibilities. About seven, eight years ago, I suggested, there was one law that spoke among other things about sanctions against, uh, not the presence of MPs or even of financial nature, because the others couldn't have been except for that financial one, and they didn't get the law of support in Parliament. The problem is serious, not only in our relationship with ministers and people from the Council of Ministers, executive powers towards this Parliament, but also in our relationship with the institution of this Parliament, if nothing then through presence, without talking through active work in this Parliament. So it's a much more serious problem. As far as I'm concerned, I think the problem of working with the Council of Ministers could be solved by having a meeting with the ministers and trying to resolve this issue. Of course, it is the responsibility of the College and all of us, but I support all those today who have been on this background, which is that, that it is high time that we start working seriously in Parliament and these people in the Council of Ministers and that exactly who is responsible and how this responsibility is manifested here in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16322	Thank you very much. There's 23 of us in the O.R. right now, so you know, we have a quorum. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16323	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 45 It's really not clear to me, colleague Pandurević, this, why you raise your voice, is no longer authoritative anything you say if you yell. The second thing, as far as the Council of Ministers and responsibilities is concerned, in the end, here in this mandate, the SBB was the first to make the move, we asked for the replacement of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, you cannot pay much respects to us for what he has done and the political relationship he has taken. When it comes to the minister, we are extremely pleased with his work and none of us four have the ambition to replace him, which I don't know if you can really say about all your ministers and your club. That's one thing. When it comes to the MPs' relationship, the system just showed that there was no quorum, and I think the system recognized something, but there was a quorum. Since there is a quorum for work and a quorum for decision making, the quorum for work was 22, but there was no 5 from Republika Srpska. But since we're not at all in the decision-making phase right now, it wasn't even necessary. So, basically, the system was right, on the other hand, it was wrong, and the reason there was no quorum to decide because there were only two from Republika Srpska, and all four from the SBB Club were there. Therefore, when it comes to dealing with institutions, the four of us can't say anything, it's very clear. And when it comes to why our minister is at the session, because he received a call for the session, and the session's term is determined by the chair of his two deputies. Our minister is not one of the deputies, but the Minister for Change is. Therefore, he participated in the decision on the session's term, ours did not, ours went to the session and had no other choice. So much for that. Thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16324	When you apologize, you let me know that I continue. Reputed representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Truthfully speaking, I don't know if this is an correction to the wrong quote or not to adhere to the agenda, first I wanted to answer it, but I support what my colleague Pandurević said. The Council of Ministers' meetings are not, there is really no need to be held at the time of Parliament's session unless there are urgent matters, and it is possible that this is the case today, but very often they are co-inciding with Parliament's meetings and I, as far as I know in the parliamentary democracy of other countries, is not a practice. But there is a question of our responsibility, and I agree with Mr. Novakovic here, can we first reanalyze ourselves a little bit, not amnesting the responsibility of the Council of Ministers. How we're going to regulate, and I don't like that there aren't any colleagues from the SNSD, but I'm very interested in how the financial services and the accounting of personal incomes, and how we even regulate and whether we can work, here in trying to form a new Rules of Procedure, determine the business order of sanctioning the complete abandonment of the session, so it comes at the beginning. As we regulate this empty walk and do not attend the sessions as an expression of their, demonstration of theirs, is the democratic right to freedom of entry and exit when it suits them. So, I think that one parliamentary group should be formed, which, in the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, will provide for this possibility, how to tolerate people who come at the beginning of the session and return only then and only when the vote is held, while other activities are being carried out. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16326	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, does not adhere to the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16327	Here I am warmly welcoming you all. I think the discussions are going in a direction that is completely different from what we have on the agenda. We have a review, and we should, or an audit report, and I ask my colleagues to observe the agenda, and what we have discussed here now will not change the situation, and even if we organise a special session that will have on the agenda a question of the presence of Parliament's sittings. I said earlier that no one respects this institution, we don't really respect ourselves, and then Bog and these others who are obliged to attend Parliament's sessions. So I urge my colleagues to do everything possible to bring the end of today, and if we need to discuss this issue that is really very serious, in certain circumstances, in my opinion, and very dramaticly, I suggest that we have it as a special point of the agenda at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16328	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16329	For these points of the agenda, or not the agenda points, I must remind myself that we, if I were to propose to hold a joint session of both homes at which only one item of the agenda will be discussed, would be the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Then something, uh, I don't remember that the SBB Club supported such a proposal and now we haven't even tried in such a way to talk, to find a two-way communication with the executive and legislative authority because it is evident that we have no communication, or that executive power, shows us already from session to session, that they are above the legislative authority. And now we should be dealing with sanctions and although I am for sanctions, although I am for fines, because only in Bosnia and Herzegovina when you hit someone in the pocket then someone starts to respect the law and the rest, but we also have here mechanisms that we could, as both homes of this Parliament and the most legislative body, try to figure out a way that when the agenda point is the Council of Ministers report first that the College does not shorten the discussion for 5 minutes. You reduce the discussion from 10 to 5 minutes and expect someone who reads, and it is doubtful who reads this Work Report at all, so someone who adequately prepares for that discussion, you, as a College, give him 5 minutes. So I'm no longer on the background that we're not some body that can criticize anyone, because in this room, we're hanging on to the end, and that position doesn't even hold yours, the first lines are usually empty lately, we're holding your quorum, and you can't even get out to the press or the toilet, because it's constantly hanging the quorum in the air. Thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16330	Look, um, I see what's going on today, I follow every discussion, I didn't want to interrupt anyone. What you're doing and teaching has nothing to do with the agenda we're discussing. I didn't want to interrupt you, and I didn't want anyone to, and I'm warning you now that the Rules of Procedures have you reporting and discussing only the points of the agenda, I'm going to intervene in the future. I think that by now I may have been in my court sometimes, and I've intervened too hard, but it seems to be the only possible way. Mr. Nikola Lovrinović, not respecting the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16331	Well, Mr. Chairman, you took my words. We started talking about the Rules of Procedure, etc. So, I do suggest, when I have already answered, that the College sit down and discuss the work of the parliamentary majority, therefore, and that we no longer differ in this position.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16332	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, discussion on the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16333	Good chairman, let the discipline of us from the U.S.A. take place. We are in the front row and you can see that the SDA is large, largely present at today's session together with colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16334	Please, just keep discussing the agenda point. Here you go. Amir
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16335	I'm going to... the president, and this is all about the agenda point, although my colleagues were a little bold on the agenda because there were all kinds of discussions. But here, I can say that this review of the impact of "Grant Management" and those recommendations that the auditors gave are very good and we will support from the SDA, and it is evident that this area needs to be system-edited so that we do not always have those discussions – the parliamentary majority benefit. This system should, grenades, regulate how, no matter who the parliamentary majority is, the same principles, the same laws apply to this area. 60 million for a little over two years, a little less than three years, is a lot of money. And it can be seen here that grant hunters get very good quotes, get grants in municipalities, cantons, entities and at the state level. I am therefore in favour of this area being systematically arranged, preferably by grenades only to the part where they are really needed and to those functions that are needed, and everything else is introduced into the system of budgets or the legal office of this grant so as not to have these phenomena. In any case, to commend is the work of the Audit Office and I think, let's say here whether there are pressures on them by the parliamentary majority and by the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16336	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. 48 We move to the 10th agenda, Ad. Ten. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: “Planning of budgetary expenditures in BiH institutions”, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1-29/17, since 04.01.2017 The Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions pursuant to Article 16 (1) and (5) of the Law on the Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions submitted this report. The Commission for Finance and Budget submitted its opinion on 17 January 2017. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16338	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16339	Ma'am, the distinguished representative of Mensura Beganović, is the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16340	I'm sorry, I really did get back to you before you closed the debate, so I thank the chairman. I support both the audit reports, the review of the impact of the Audit Office and I find it very useful, but what I wanted to comment on through this report on the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is something that I think makes sense to attach to this report because it is about values that are far greater than the funds we have searched along the previous report and the Porpie and talked about what programmes they are, whether the criteria are visible or not. When it comes to this Impact Review Report on budgets, that is, budget planning for budget items, individual planning and evaluation of what was planned and what was done in the context of the financial resources spent, it is something that is high time to discuss financial control. So it's not financial control that people see as controlling the resources available and spent, it's controlling what we got for that money. I'm sure my colleagues from the Audit Office know very well what I'm talking about, because the organized societies in Europe, the countries of Europe, the countries of the world have already begun to introduce instead of or with audit and financial control. So I would ask our Audit Office to consider the possibility that, as you have already stated in these recommendations, in seven recommendations in this impact review, each of these recommendations has financial control elements. So it would be very good for us to discuss this more in the future, to get used to the institutions that are planning, to report and to ask for appropriate budgets to be approved in some planned period, to prove that these funds are indeed sufficient and spent in that sense to obtain the value that is promised, which is planned. Otherwise, our entire budget system, the budgeting and adoption system in this House, is such that this Parliament, as I recently read somewhere, is a flow boiler that only confirms the decisions made by someone else, especially when it comes to the budget. And I think that some things have to change qualitatively. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16341	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, the esteemed representative of Mirsad Isakovi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16342	I thank the chairman. Well, I think I have a duty here to react in terms of saying that there is, therefore, a revision, a financial audit and an impact review. We already have that audit, and what we don't have is a quality review. Of course, in the next period, these types of audits will also be present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how we are heading towards the EU. So these are the European standards we accept. What may not be clear is the very system of budgeting which, therefore, is administrative or linear and it does not have its own effects of the real that it should have. The moment we have the programming budgets, then we will have and the impact review will give the right result. So, that budget user who got the money what he did for those funds and why he didn't justify those funds, we're going to have a de facto on the ground. Dale, what I'm saying is that there's already an impact review and I don't know what more, the one, the two audits exist, the third should be... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16343	Thank you. If no one answers the word, I'll close the debate. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Information on the assessment and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01,02-41-1257/15, of 02.10.2015 and additions Information, material No: 01,02-41-1257-2/15, of 13.10.2016. We've got some kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure reported here. Mr. Mirsad Mešić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that the conditions laid down in Article 74 of our Rules of Procedure, point (1), where the presence of the motionor is mandatory to attend this session. How unserious this is is also said from the fact that we are discussing an extremely current and important topic and I think this point should be withdrawn from the agenda and discussed when the minister is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16346	Here comes the motionary's representative. So, we move forward, the Joint Committee on Human Rights adopted a conclusion at the 10th session, held on 15 September 2015, asking the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver 50 of this information. The Council of Ministers delivered the requested information on 02.10.2015. At its 19th session, held on 06.10.2015, the Dom College appointed the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH and the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent. The Joint Defence and Security Commission of BiH delivered its opinion on 16.11.2015, stating that the information had been received and adopted a conclusion that reads: The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with regularly informing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly about the implementation of the emergency plan and the implementation of the activities listed in the Information on the evaluations and possibilities of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the refugee crisis in the region and the EU. The Joint Committee on Human Rights adopted the conclusion at the 12th session, held on 26.10.2015 – that the BiH Council of Ministers submits within 10 days a supplement to the information that has seen certain shortcomings. In 13.10.2016, the BiH Ministry of Security provided additional information. The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion on 17 January 2017, stating that it had taken the information into account. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th agenda, Ad. 12. The BiH Council of Ministers' response to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' initiative, adopted at the 35th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, held on 30.08.2016, material number: 01-50-1 1906/16, since 22.12.2016 At the 35th session, held on 30.08.2016, the House of Representatives adopted a modified initiative by the distinguished representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalica, which reads – the BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with making a report on the position of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 2016. The House College has appointed the Joint Commission for Human Rights as competent. The competent Commission delivered its opinion on 17 January 2017, stating that it had accepted the Council of Ministers' reply. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16348	I thank the chairman. I hope the deputy respected minister is also in front of the Council of Ministers on this point. Since there is no one present from the Ministry of Civil Affairs who delivered this information, does that mean now that we are going to debate in this House without anyone present to be authorized? 51
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16349	You have a discussion, Mrs. Gasal. Please perform your discussion. You'll get answers all you asked for.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16350	So, the Ministry of Civil Affairs played a co-ordinated role in delivering information to this initiative and we had a Joint Commission on Human Rights yesterday to discuss this Information provided by the Council of Ministers and was present as a representative of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. He gave some answers that I would comment on through my discussion. So, in my initiative, I asked for information to be delivered to me by competent institutions at the state level, as well as other levels that have issues in their jurisdiction, i.e. the position of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I specifically mentioned, among other things, the Commission for Co-ordination of Young People's Affairs, which is part of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, but of all other institutions, directorates, agencies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even entity and cantonal institutions, I received no response from the Commission alone at the state level. And it is this state-level Commission, which was formed in 2005, which has experienced some changes and complements so that it will no longer be the Council of Ministers' composition, but the express composition of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in 2009 has changed the decision and in 2015, Mr Zvizdić has appointed new representatives, signed for a three-year term. However, yesterday, a representative of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and just a member of that Commission says that the mandate has expired, so my question – How is it that they did not deliver in their Information that the Commission no longer exists, that the mandate has expired, that some decisions on their formation have been annulled? And when you open their website, you see that they are very current and that they are actually doing now and selection for the selection of persons that should be delegated from Bosnia and Herzegovina as representatives of the Regional Youth Office. So that's one thing. I have not yet received a reply from the Commission to coordinate youth issues, and I believe that this information provided by the Council of Ministers is incomplete, because I am just missing the Commission's response, because, according to its Rules of Procedure on Labour in Articles 6 and 7 is competent for coordination, for analysis, for the adoption of strategies, for the reference of initiatives for the legislative framework. And in what way? In a way that the Commission has delegated persons from both entities, from Brcko District, coordination is at the state level and also persons, i.e. representatives from the non-governmental sector are part of the Commission, so that everything that should be under the Constitution and competences is satisfied, and the Commission has indeed had to deliver its reply. With this response, the Council of Ministers, i.e. Information on the initiative, has shown that there is no coordination with the relevant institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, agencies and directors, and this is how. On the first page, the Council of Ministers comments on how many young people are unemployed in Bosnia and Herzegovina and says it is 30%. So, out of the total number of unemployed people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 30% are young. Of these 30% of young people aged 15-30, 50.9% are waste on young women and age. It is unclear where this data comes from, because when the second page of the Statistics Agency is seen, which says that young women aged 15 to 30 are 40.3 the question arises from the Council of Ministers of this information and how it is possible that the Council of Ministers and Statistics at the state level did not do this information together, i.e. this raises doubts that the Council of Ministers has not read the information provided by the competent institutions. They put together some answers only known to them. And this raises the question in 52 that the Council of Ministers is doing at all, that is, how it relates to, some of the initiatives that are being addressed from this House or from this institution. Furthermore, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the Council of Ministers, says they are young in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so says the Statistics Agency, aged 15 to 30, but the Directorate for Economic Planning at the state level says they are young from 15 to 24 years old, and the question is how is possible. So I can accept that entities do not have a uniform methodology for collecting data or treating young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I cannot accept that two state-level institutions treat young people differently in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. age treated as young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Minister of the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports also says they are 15 to 29 years old, and this raises the question of how Mrs. Minister treated this when at the federal level there is a Youth Act that says young people are 15 to 30 years old. Furthermore, the Ministry of Civil Affairs states that all activities have taken place and that everything has been launched in order to improve the position of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this information it is evident that many have not seen or seen the light of day for many years from various strategies, strategic documents that were on the agenda, as well as the previous calls, so the question arises why the Ministry of Civil Affairs is silent about why someone has continuously obstructed the adoption of strategic documents that would improve the position of young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, that information is not given by the Ministry of Civil Affairs or by the Council of Ministers in this Information. Employment services, according to this Information, are continuously implementing target employment programmes for the young population, and an enormous figure is allocated from the budget annually and employment and self-employment is co-financed by around two thousand young people on unemployment records. This is something that we all probably all knew and read in the media, but we don't have information about what happens to people who are employed through this programme, but when the co-financing by the employment office is stopped on this level or on that level, do these people get employed, which is the fate of these young people, they probably go back to the employment office and they're waiting for some new pilot project from the employment office. And we also have no information as to who these employers are who are constantly involved in these programmes that their persons, i.e. persons from the employment office, are co-financed for a certain period of time in their companies. So there is no data, as there is no data as to what the Directorate for Economic Planning in Bosnia and Herzegovina has done as part of its competence to improve the position of young people. In the information provided, the Economic Planning Directorate states that it is part of the Council of Ministers' mid-term work programme for the period 2017-2019. young people are mentioned only in combination with culture and sport. So this is the information that needs to worry all of us. Imagine young people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Central Work Plan of the Council of Ministers are brought only into connection with areas of culture and sport, it is unacceptable and the question arises – so why, where are young education, where are young health care, where are young labour markets? So I cannot accept that the Central Labour Plan of the Council of Ministers will deal only with young people in a segment concerning culture and sports. So, worrying information. It is also unclear why the Agency for Statistics in Bosnia and Herzegovina when doing a survey on the working-age population seems not to be in communication with the Directorate for Economic Planning and that we have no record of how many architects, architects, so by sex, that we compare what interests we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have so that we can finally really work on it, because women are more unemployed than men, so let's see, to determine whether it is because women are less often enrolled in technical colleges for, and perhaps the need for technical colleges. So, we have here a lot of questions that are not answered to us, and we are also not 53 responsible, because to have that data we would know as Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is on the way to the EU, in which way we will, in our period of time, do everything in our power to bring the labour market and education in line with each other. Also, the Agency for Pre-school and Primary Education has not provided information on what is a secondary vocational education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is an attractive profession, which is not enrolled, which should be opened in Bosnia and Herzegovina by some, some of the new directions of secondary education, etc. What concerns is that the Council of Ministers, i.e. institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has no record of how many young people have left Bosnia and Herzegovina, all of which are being called here for information, i.e. an analysis conducted by the NGO CULT and which says it has been since '93. by 2015 - 130,000 young people left Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, from this information, we see that the Council of Ministers, or any institution at the state level, and at other levels is not concerned about why young people leave, how to stop the brain drain, how to stop the eviction from Bosnia and Herzegovina personnel, or the person we have trained, how they will know that when absolutely they are, they are invited, therefore, to the data and analysis done by the NGO, while in their jurisdiction they have the budget and in their jurisdiction to deal with analyses, programmes, projects... /sound warning for the MP/... this is not working and this is worrying, and it is particularly worrying that the Directorate for European Integrations has announced that citizens can also participate in answering questions on the questionnaire. They have singled out 36 questions and citizens and citizens have access to these questions and can give their answer, the 26th question is – do we have a youthed, unique youth policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a body dealing with co-ordination.../sounding warning for a message/... youth in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the situation of youth issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina? And I'm going to be a citizen, and I'm going to do my best to give an answer according to this report delivered by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16351	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Request of the Interim Joint Commission of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to extend the deadline for preparing and referencing the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-50-14-1197-14-16, since 29/12/2016 The interim joint commission submitted a request to extend their deadline again by the end of June 2017, you all got the material. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. 54 Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Consideration of the resignation of Vildan Đurović as a member of the BiH Appeal Office, Act No: 01,02-34-1-3232/16, of 28.12.2016 and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Office for the Review of Appeals of BiH, Act No: 01,02-34-1-322/16, of 06.01.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16356	Just for a short time, of course, not wanting to get into any kind of controversy or anything, I don't see any reason why at least one of the parliamentary groups made up of Backović and Emrić won't be and don't bring us into that position to write our proposals, remarks, etc. in some other form than to let you, until now, do everything that you've done, completely avoiding these two political parties to be unaccounted for, and here we have people who are perpetum mobile, who are absolutely all-knowing in all the commissions, on all the committees, are in all the temporary ones, in all of them, gather names and last names of people, so you'll see. I don't understand why you didn't allow one of this group to be, just one man to at least make suggestions and what the two of us wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16357	Thank you. So, Parliament's decision is that every club of MPs to make a proposal for one representative, you don't have a club, there are seven clubs here, if Parliament decides that one of you is not having any problems, the College doesn't decide, especially not me as chairman, but this House decides on it, it is such a decision it can change if the House decides how the House decides it will be for you. You, therefore, suggest to us that in the Group for the Making of Change and Supplement of Rules of Procedure, next to the representatives of the political parties' clubs, and we have two representatives who cannot form a club, there are no groups by the Rules of Procedure, but clubs and MPs, so Parliament can vote on your proposal, and I have no objection here and I will vote you know about it right now, here if that is the problem. Can you give up on this? I think I'm done, uh, having any need to now, Mr. Emrić, you're giving a discussion, it's a clear thing. You have needs, don't you? Here you go, Mr. jasmin Ermić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16358	I thank the chairman. Just to clarify this accompanying act, it is not stated that we as MPs submitted the proposal, although we knew that the College had decided that only the Members' clubs would submit proposals for this Interim Joint Commission. We delivered the proposal, the proposal is Mr Backović. Of course, if Parliament decides that we should not be members of the Interim Joint Commission, we will accept it, but I think it is about amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and that it is logical to allow all political entities to participate in making changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure, because it will certainly help us to come up with a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16359	Mr. Fehim Škaljić, discussion. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16360	Thank you. The business is a mutual need, no matter how we regulate it to be clubs, I think that in this case we need to make one tolerance approach and that one of our colleagues is either Backović or Emrić to enter into this and plead on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16361	Thank you very much. So it was a joint college proposal, the Joint College defined it as representatives of political parties clubs in the House of Representatives and clubs of the peoples of the House of Peoples. Are we going to hurt that decision or are there going to be a problem with the House of Peoples in forming a group, secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16362	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16363	I, if you have a proposal, two MPs have any suggestions which one of you should be in on it. _________(?) We sent it in writing. So tell me now, I'm asking you. jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said in my discussion that we had sent a written proposal to a parliamentary group called BPS – Sefer Halilović, A-SDA The Party of Democratic Activity told you. You got it, you didn't mention it in this accompanying act, which I think is the same deficiency, you should have specified if we had directed something to say, that it was rejected, that it wasn't accepted for the reason that the Joint College decided how it decided, etc. etc. So, we sent a written act in due time and in this proposal it was Mr. Zaim Backović to be a member of the Interim Joint Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16366	Thank you. So, the proposal has arrived, and now the secretary has given it to us, the proposal is Mr. Zaim Backović, of you it has been self-initiative, and we will put it to a vote when 57 there has been a vote on this item of the agenda. It will be a vote whether Parliament accepts that the representatives of the two of you are in on it, so if we vote on the package, if it does not, then we will vote on what we have, so everything will be respected as the Rules of Procedure suggests. No one's answering for a word anymore. I'm closing the debate. This is how we came to the end of this agenda. I'm now giving a break of 10 minutes, so at 14:05 we'll have a vote here on all the points of the agenda. Please register with the MPs. We'll start with a vote. We vote on the first item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes from the 40th session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 30 votes for, without votes against, four abstentions. Enough entity majority, we've adopted a 40-session record. Moving to point 3. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administration – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-11/16, from 06.01.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. This is where we vote on the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Prepare to vote and vote now. With 11 votes against 21, there is therefore no general majority, this, no negative opinion has been adopted by the Commission. 11 votes for, 21 against, therefore, no negative Commission opinion has been adopted and this is returning to the Commission. Let's go to point 4. – Report by the Commission of the College of Representatives of the House on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (Law in Second Reading), Law No: 01,02-02-1-2804/16, from 02.11.2016. We vote on the law [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16371	...the vote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-01-18-0.u16372	At the request of the SDS Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 21 votes for, 10 against, please a little attention, 21 votes for, 10 votes against, 1 abstention. There is no entity majority sufficient from Republika Srpska entities. We're going to the second round. Are we going to the second round? We need to form that group. We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote in the second round. We vote now. 21 votes for, 10 against and 1 abstention. May I have your attention, please, so it doesn't make any sense anymore. 21 votes for, 10 against and 1 abstention, no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity. So Mr. Zaim Backović entered this list. We vote on this list that now includes the name and Mr Zaim Backović, so now it's Damir Arnaut, Saša Magazinović, Lazar Prodanović, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, Hazim Rančić, Nikola Lovrinović, Momčilo Novaković and Zaim Backović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 32 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. With enough entity majority, I find that we have appointed the mentioned, stated to the gentleman in the Rules of Procedure Commission. I'm closing the 41st session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 16 February 2017. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 14:37 p.m.
