ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2693	Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and open the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At today's session, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, the Ombudsman's institutions, the BiH Postal Transport Agency, the Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH Police Structure, the Committee for Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of BiH, the foreign courts for the acts provided for by the Penal Law of BiH or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the second court under the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House. There are 13 envoys present at the session, of which 3 from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. I suppose two envoys from the Bosniak people will also appear because they did not justify the absence, so I believe they will join us, here, but the president of the club is coming to us. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 27th session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, envoy Mario Karamatić, BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadko, submitted the announcement to ask questions in oral form. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the announcement was delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to the Public Television Service of BiH in order to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here goes the Parliamentary Assembly one legend that yesterday the distinguished minister was even in this room, believe it or not I heard it. I've been confirmed from serious sources, although I'm still not quite sure that this man exists, because I've never been able to see him, although, a day or two ago, I saw a press conference between him and Mr. Boris Džonson, the foreign minister of Great Britain, so I heard those intelligent statements in style, which – Britain is leaving the European Union but is not leaving Europe. I think the foreign minister is an institution, so he should at least know that the state cannot move from one continent to another, it can go towards European integration or not. I also noticed that the distinguished Mr. Crnadak invited Mr. Džonson to go skiing to take him to Jahorin, but I'm not clear whether the funds are for that, who's going to pay for it. I know that some political officials have already gone skiing on account of budget users, the truth is that it was in Austria, it wasn't in Jahorina, this is a little closer. But here, I'm interested in whether Mr. Crnadak would pay or be paid by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? And, here, I would ask the Secretary of the House to deliver in writing to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an inquiry – on how many business trips Mr. Crnadak has been with his accompanying bodies so far, how much this cost Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina's taxpayers, and what are the benefits of his travels? So, what did he do so cruelly for this country, to raise its rating, since our credit rating is in the trash, since we fell 52nd from 42nd place in the visa-free regime in Mr. Crnadko's office? I think it's best for him to sit at home, if there's a man, I'm still not sure he's sitting at home, not moving anywhere, and that would work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2695	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Ambassador Safet Softić received answers to questions at the 24th session of the People's House, held on 22.11.2016, addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Denis Zvizdić and BiH Human Rights and Refugee Minister Semiha Borovac. Ambassador Dragutin Rodić also received answers in writing on the issue at the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and was asked at the 26th session of the House of Peoples by the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Ambassador Zdenka Džambas received an answer to the envoy's question at the 26th session of the People's House of Communications and Transport of BiH. Ambassador Ljilja Zovko received an answer to the envoy's question asked on 27.(?) Meetings of the House of Peoples of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Are the envoys satisfied with the answers received? Here, fellow Softić says it is. Mrs. Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2696	First I would like to welcome all my fellow envoys, ministers from the Council of Ministers and all others, and wish you happy work since this is your first session in the chairmanship of the new rotation. 3 I asked Mr. Minister a question, Mr. Jusk, a question I received a written answer, but since I am satisfied, it is not enough that I alone am satisfied, because I think it is a very important question, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina only negative things are attracted to attention, so I would just like to read your conclusion, of course thanks for the answer. My question was, I will not read it whole, so on paraphrasing the Treaty establishing a transport community between the European Union and the countries of South East Europe, all six below, and that after that initialling, the Treaty should be signed at the upcoming South East European Summit to be held in Rome this summer, which will stop the operation of the current Transport Observatory of SEETO countries, and I have asked the question – as far as we came? You have answered that nicely to me, and I am pleased, and I will then, for the sake of the public, read on this issue your conclusion which reads: Having in mind the European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina and our request for membership in the European Union, the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH appreciates that it is not in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina to remain outside the Transport Community Treaty, which is why the text of this Treaty is after it has been agreed, which is very important, by representatives of all parties contracted and initialized. The obligations arising from that Treaty and the envisaged liberalisation of the railway sector will be part of a process involving a transitional period to meet the intended conditions and assess... the fulfilment of them. It is an opportunity for railway companies to work intensively and work rapidly, particularly in their own interest, to implement the necessary reforms in order to qualify for competition in the market, and for infrastructure owners to work primarily on investing in infrastructure, which is at the heart of all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to use the possibility of funding projects by donors, international financial institutions, especially through an investment framework for the Western Balkans. Therefore, thank you Minister and this will be very good for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2697	Thank you. The other envoys are not answering, which means they would, if they were satisfied with the answer. I would like to inform you that the College has agreed that the 21st item of the agenda should be removed from today's session and that it will be the subject of discussion at the next session. It is about – The situation and prospects in the agriculture sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which means that it is not on the agenda today even though you have obtained it. I will, now, therefore, move to the 27th session, propose, so, as follows: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 26th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a deposit guarantee law in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-960/17 of 07.04.2017; 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-958 of 07.04.2017; 4 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to a Single Account and Allocation of Revenue, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-959/17 of 07.04.2017; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-957/17 of 07.04.2017; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Other Expenses in BiH Court and Prosecutoral Institutions (first reading) – Short Procedure, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16 of 11.10.2016 and 14.12.2017, with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-217 of 26.01.2017; 8. Request for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers by replacing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Defence Minister Sead Jusić; 9. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: “Grant management in institutions”, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-3261/16 of 30.12.2016; 10. Report on the impact audit carried out on the subject: ‘Planning of budgetary expenditures in BiH institutions’, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-29/17 of 04.01.2017; 11. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016, issue: 05/2-50-19-386/17 of 07.02.2017; 12. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2016, issue: 05/350-19-402/17 of 07.02.2017; 13. Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest for 2016, issue: 01,02,03-50-19-331/17 of 31.01.2017; 14. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, issue: 05/1-50-19-469/17 of 14.02.2017, and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2017, issue: 05/50-19-467/17 of 14.02.2017; 15. Reports on the work of the Permanent Commissions of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: (a) Report on the work of the Constitutional Commission of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02,02/1-50-19-185/17 of 19.01.2017, (b) Report on the work of the Committee for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02/3-50-19-272/17 of 26/01.2017, (c) Report on the work of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02-50-8-321/17 of 31.01.2017; 16. Reports on the work of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-14-108-117 of 17/01.2017, (b) Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 03/3-50-108/17 of 02.02.2017, 5 d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 03/3-50-108/17 of 02.02.2017., 5 d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration for 2016, issue: 03/4-14-14-108/17 of 03.02.2017., 5) Report on the work of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs for 2016-028/2017 of 17.02.2017. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of BiH, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2016 law, issue: 01,02-50-19-542/17 of 21.02.2017; 18. Work report and the Financial Report of the Postage Transport Agency for BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-16-1-598/17 of 27.02.2017; 19. Report on the implementation of the recommendations of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution in connection with the Special Report on the Accessibility of Labour Spaces of Legislative Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Persons with Disabilities – applicant: The Ombudsman's Institution for Human Rights of BiH, issue: 03/6,01,02,03-37-226/17 of 23.01.2017; 20. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-1-126/17 of 12.01.2017; 21. Information on the annual training plan and training of members and units of Bosnia and Herzegovina Armed Forces abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Defence Ministry, issue: 03/1-03-2884/16 of 10.11.2016; 22. Information from the BiH Ministry of Defence on the Defence Review document (under the BiH Presidency Conclusion, issue: 03/1-03-3131/16 of 13/12/2016).; 23. Assessment of the implementation of the Code of Conduct of Representatives and Envoys in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, material of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-666/17 of 07.03.2017; 24. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a candidate ranking for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-224-8/17 of 1603.2017; 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment to the Election Law of BiH; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the formation of the Balkan Medical Forces, No 01,02-02-1-2936/16 of 18.11.2016; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on the granting of financial assistance for the "A water supply and waste water programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II" (Refurbishment and upgrade of the water supply and waste water system in the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica), No: 01,02-05-2157/17 of 16/01; 28.01.2017. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1 to the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, concluded on 05.10.2011 in Luxembourg and 25.10.2011 in Sarajevo – Hospital project in Republika Srpska, issue: 01.02-05-2-158/17 since 16.01.2017; 6 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Construction and Equipment of the Research Institute “kralj Salman bin Abdulaziz“ at the University of Sarajevo School of Science and Technology between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-3078/16 of 07.12.2016; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Employment of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia and the Protocol amending and supplementing the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Employment of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia, No 01,02-05-2-391/17 of 07.02.2017; 31. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the field of tourism, No: 01,02-05-2-303/17 of 30.01.2017; 32. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the maritime transport of cargo to merchant ships, No 01,02-05-2-491/17 of 1602.2017; 33. Adherence to the ratification of the Orio grant aid arrangement for the implementation and phase of operation and maintenance of the construction of the sewage network and wastewater processing plant in the town of Bijeljina, ORI11BA081, issue: 01,02-02-10-524/17 since 20.02.2017; 34. Adherence to ratification of the First Supplemental Agreement on financing and a project related to additional recovery measures following the flood and reduction of the risk of natural disasters under the Agreement on the financing and project of 31.10.2014 between KfW, Frankfurt na Majna (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina (receiver) and the Federation of BiH (Federation) and the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica (project implementation agencies) in an additional amount of 2,375.00 euros – The Water and Waste Water Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II. (Project), number: 01,02-02-10-525/17 of 20.02.2017; 35. Approval to ratify the International Convention for the Protection of New Plant Varieties of 02 December 1961, as amended in Geneva on 10 November 1972, 23 October 1978 and 19 March 1991, No: 01,02-05-2-563/17 of 22.02.2017; 36. Approval to ratify the International Convention on the Prevention of Nuclear Terrorism, signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina on 07 December 2015, No 01,02-05-2-565/17 of 22.02.2017; 37. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sport, issue: 01,02-05-2-564/17 of 22.02.2017; 38. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Office for the Cooperation of Young People of the Western Balkans, issue: 01,02-05-2-612/17 of 28.02.2017; 39. Giving consent to the ratification of Letters of Accession of the Funding Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Serbia with regard to the implementation of the Action Programme of cross-border cooperation between Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2014, which Bosnia and Herzegovina joined on 28.03.2016, issue: 01.02-05-2-682/17 of 09.03.2017; 40. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement for Iterreg IPA CBC Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro 2014-20. CCI2014TC1615CB004 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, issue: 01,02-05-2-651/17 of 09.03.2017; 41. The appointment of the interim investigation committee of the People's House to obtain information on foreign policy status in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 7 42. Consideration of ‘confidential’ material, Act No: P-Pov-07-03-10-9-49/16, of 17.11.2016. (Note: The material for this item of the agenda is, for confidentiality, available exclusively to the security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be exported. You can see the materials in office No.215 (II floor) every day from 9 to 17 hours. This, therefore, is the harmonized agenda of today's session of the House of Peoples. Does anyone report for a word, or might there be a proposal to amend or supplement today’s agenda? Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'd like to ask someone from the technical service to come up with a draft agenda point, to deliver. So, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House, as a conscientious envoy in this distinguished House, in which Article 11 of the Treaty states that the envoy is obliged to deal with issues of political and public interest, and since I am convinced that the international rating of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a matter of both political and public interest, and since, as I have already said, that our credit rating to zero and that in the two-year term Bosnia and Herzegovina from 42nd place in the quality of the visa-free regime has fallen to 52nd place, means 10 places, since Indonesia abolished our visa-free regime a few days ago, it is not a coincidence but a tendency to continue. And since, here, for months now, I haven't been able to ask my colleagues a question to the distinguished foreign minister about anything, I ask that, in accordance with Article 25. The Rules of Procedure of Work, the House, establishs a temporary commission, i.e. a temporary investigative committee which, in accordance with points 35 of the public hearing under point 1 in order to obtain information, to look at the situation in certain areas, in a specific case on the foreign policy rating of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Commission's competence, and to find a solution for a particular issue in this particular case, means, for the further decline in the rating of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I insist that the distinguished House be made aware of my proposal to supplement the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2699	If I am well, here you are, informed You are proposing a new item of the agenda of the appointment of a temporary, temporary investigative committee to the House of Nations for the purpose of obtaining information.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2700	What's the name of the point...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2701	And just tell me what information to be.. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] About Bosnia and Herzegovina's political rating. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2703	About Bosnia and Herzegovina's political rating?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2704	Yeah. All right, I call, here, now the esteemed envoys and envoys to declare the completion of the agenda proposed by the esteemed envoy Karamatić. The results of the statement are as follows, so – from the Federation of BiH 5 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, it was not against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, we've now adopted this proposal of yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2705	At what point...?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2706	We just didn't say at what point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2707	We have to vote again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2708	Okay. That would be, then, the last item of the agenda, or before, I'm sorry, we have to do it sooner because we're going to have to take a break. So this would be the 41st item of the agenda now. Okay, thank you. We're going to work now. So, adoption, we're going to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Are there any records reported? If not, then we'll go straight to the plea. We can vote. There is, therefore, a general majority, there is an entity majority. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, no one against, no one abstention. From Republika Srpska also – 5 for, no one against and no one abstention. I agree that the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. 9 We move to point two, that's it, Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the proposal for a deposit guarantee law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-960/17 of 07.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2712	Well, anyway, let me welcome you all and wish you successful work as your new chairman. Well, there's nothing unclear here, this is what the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been talking about for about a year. Congratulations to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the chairman of another agency at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the Banking Agency. I think we're going our way. And what I would just like to ask is a question, and this is the last one – to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide funds in the budget of the institutions and international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question is – How will this Agency be financed, from which funds will the Director of this Agency receive salary, materially technical conditions? I know where the seat is, I think I'm glad that it won't be necessary, but here, it just doesn't make any sense to me, although I'm probably wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2713	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. In front of the Council of Ministers, please welcome the finance minister, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2714	College, MPs, MPs, is this on? Yes, it is. So, just for a little while, it's not a new agency at all, so this is the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this Law is, so the amendments and additions to the existing Act have been made, it's known that this Act is prescribed... in the deposit insurance programme for all banks that have been authorised by, for work by, the competent Banking Agency. This Act reduces the time limit for depositor payments when the bank's work permit is withdrawn on 20 working days, the Agency's new mandate is introduced, the participation of the Deposit Insurance Fund in the restructuring process and the safeguard mechanisms of that Deposit Insurance Fund in the process... of financing, restructuring are the financing of the process, which means that for the Insurance Fund it will be the same or more favourable participation in the bank restructuring processes in relation to liquidation or bankruptcy. For these assessments, independent asset assessments and bank liabilities defined by the Bank Act are used, the contribution amount of the Deposit Insurance Fund limited to 50% of the Fund's target amount. The Agency’s opinion on restructuring processes, in particular in relation to hypothetical liquidation or bankruptcy, shall be decided by the Management Board of the Agency on the use of the Fund’s funds, in the event that the Deposit Insurance Fund suffers more losses than it would have suffered in the liquidation or bankruptcy processes, it shall exercise the right to compensate for the difference from the emergency premium funds. Let me just point out that the solutions that are part of this Law are in line with the EU Directive in the area of the protection of deposit and recovery of banks, and the remaining amendments to the Law are the regulation of the area of inforting depositors, cooperation between institutions and technical corrections. Never, and even under this bill, no funding is foreseen at the budget cost of any level of government and should be said that amendments and additions to the law have been prepared, however, the legislative sector has determined that it exceeds 50% of those envisaged and is required to do a new law, so this is the new law that imprementes all this I just said. And on a concrete issue – it is not the new Agency, and no funding is foreseen from the budget of any level of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2715	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Bevanda. I'm going to close the hearing now because I don't see any more, uh, more reported for discussion. This was only a matter of procedure now, but here it is, we've already opened the debate, so, uh, we're going to go to the vote now, so whether we're going to consider this bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So now we're voting on an emergency procedure. Please initiate this voting mechanism. Vote now. There is, therefore, a general majority, there is an entity majority. From the Federation – 8 for, against 1, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, against 2, there were no abstentions. Therefore, I find that we are required to consider the proposal for a deposit insurance law in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, adopted. Now, I'm opening a debate on the bill's proposal, although there's already been a debate, but if any of the envoys want, they can still be involved. I don't see any interest, I'm closing the debate. 11 We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. From the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the Deposit Insurance Act has been passed in Bosnia and Herzegovina's banks. Moving to point three, that's it, Ad. 3. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-958 of 07.04.2017. You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. I'm giving the word to the bill promoter if you don't mind. No interest, so good. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the procedure, so whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please initiate procedure. You can vote. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against, there were no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find a request to consider the draft law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is there any interest in the debate? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. You can vote. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against and no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. 12 We move to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to a Single Account and Allocation of Revenue, by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-959/17 of 07.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2719	We voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2720	And here, 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2721	No, no, there was a procedure just now, and now it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2722	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2723	We re-voted the vote, no, not all perfection, here you see for yourself. So I'll just repeat the results. Federation - 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against and no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to a Single Account and Allocation of Revenue. We're moving to five, that's it, Ad. 5. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-957/17 of 07.04.2017. You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. I'll give the word to the Proposer, if you need to look at the procedure. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the procedure, so whether or not we are going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. You can vote. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 7 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against, there were no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the request to consider the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, this one, the law. Any interest? Who answered? Mr. Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2725	I thank you, Mr. President, and here I am joining the congratulations and wish to successfully lead this House. 14 I welcome all those present and here's how we use this time rationally, we haven't spent much time discussing this set of laws, I want to say a few things, here's a minimum of what we just heard from responsibility for public and political action. There are a few things here that I feel the need to know here or say or say. First, we as envoys have received today a second version of this set of laws by the Council of Ministers in the last six days.... So today we got from yesterday's extraordinary session. This can be a good indicator that the Council of Ministers in these complex circumstances acts, acts, uh, flexible and reacts quickly and responds to the demands that stand before this country, but may also be an indicator of the underestimation of this House and of us envoys who should act on such important issues in a second and take responsibility. But let's believe that this is the first question, and since this is the first question, I want to believe that this is the first question, meaning responsibility for passing important laws that depend on both the financial and economic and social future of this country, then I am obliged to say something about this law. So, when the purpose of the adoption of this Act as well as the one on guaranteeing deposits was to mobilise external financing for the necessary infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the modernisation of the banking sector, which is really necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if we take this situation now, then, the necessity of providing sufficient resources for the necessary infrastructure projects, I think, we need to make things clear here. First, the situation on the roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina is alarming, and here, according to the latest research, the most difficult in Europe and according to the indicators of mortality, disability and the loss of civilians on those roads, it is clear that all responsible people should, therefore, support every step that can lead to improving infrastructure, its quality, construction and that. And that's not disputed, and if you ask most of the citizens in this country if they're for that kind of approach, they'll tell you that. But if you ask if there is trust and how this money will be spent, which dynamically, which quality, in which projects, and in which way, with which monitoring, so you see, you see where we are, you see that we haven't spent any of the funds that have been secured for more than two years, just to draw out one concrete example, that is, that's two lotions from Zvirović to Počilac and the Bridge of the Počitelj, that I'm not saying in the north how much time we've lost, so that argument that this is about the speed of significant, significant waste. But that's not enough reason for us to refuse this, either, and I won't be one of those who will prevent the adoption of these laws, but in order to cover our responsibility for passing these laws, we need to know what the real situation is in the spending of funds, what the real situation is in relation to the parliamentary majority, which, we see today, is being voted by part of the parliamentary majority against these laws that need to secure this from Bosnia and Herzegovina or, as I hear from leaders within the parliamentary majority, that most of these are treated as technically, by the Council of Ministers. Well, there's no category of the Technical Council of Ministers either you're in power or opposition or you're going to vote, or you're going to go to elections, and not what we're going to take from the government what we like, what we need to be responsible for, we're going to finely turn it into a technical mandate, as well as in the last term of office, we're going to fool voters, and in some way here we're going to continue this agony where Bosnia and Herzegovina is. So the key question is, will these goals be achieved? Will the citizens of this country be better, better situationed, and will the pockets of these people, ordinary people, be better if this set of laws passes, if we have an arrangement with the IMF which, I will remind us, means in 3 years 1,100,000 KM or the situation will be better if this is not adopted? I am also aware that it will be better to adopt this and if it is transparent, responsible and quality spending of these funds. And I expect, therefore, that we take responsibility, so this country needs one Antonio Alvarez but not the third but the first, this one that has now come to Croatia, to pick up Lex Agrokor, this one, where the state is passing the law to secure the money, but Antonio Alvarez will deploy it. So, dear friends, we see here these days lobbying for the adoption of this law. It is not disputed, therefore, that we have a partnership with international structures, the European 15 Commission, but science is not the business of adopting this Law by those who propose it, the Council of Ministers and Parliamentarys? If we, who are not part of the parliamentary majority, need to be in the position of the European path, and we must and should, then we should clearly say that, we do not have a parliamentary majority, we need redefine, we need enough hands and we need to introduce one state of emergency, because we do not have extraordinary elections, and act so as to know whose responsibility is it. This is how those who have taken over some of the cookies, positions, functions, directorial posts, funds, budgets for the construction of these infrastructure projects, take responsibility and make an account for the public. Why is it not built with the planned dynamics, why they are looking for new funds that, which we have no guarantee will be built with the planned dynamics and why they do not ultimately take responsibility for the possible consequences of not adopting this, this package of laws, because we see that here they did not pass in the House of Representatives. We hope that, here we will see that we are creative, come up with a formula to bring it back to the House of Representatives today and give it a chance to this House of Representatives, that citizens and this country do not pay the price of these maneuvers and these institutional games that are objectively covered by the rules of procedure and articles, but essentially mean that there is no clear relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities, us as legislators and those who need to be valorised by our own hands. This is an essential imposition, let's not fool ourselves, but if it should be, then let it be used quality, transparent, fair, evenly on all shares, without politicizing certain regions and spaces, without eliminating the most favourable bidders, those who have sent the most favourable offers, and we need to know that this is one of the reasons why we don't have a road for 2 years. So I want to talk about it and the public wants to talk about it, voters want to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2726	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Next, Mr. Karamatić signed up, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paper's a miracle, paper's a miracle and on paper when something's written it's real. Check this out, he says - the adoption of the proposed amendments does not require any new means to implement this Act. How thoughtful we are of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we've collected taxes from them, and for the implementation of these laws, we don't have to, we're not going to spend any of that money, but we're going to cut off 15 fenings for each liter of fuel, so they're going to go fuel one 20 fenings up, and then eventually they're going to collect bread, they're going to pick up butter, they're going to pick up milk. Now the question I would ask – who needs an increase in excise duties? They say from the Republika Srpska government it means nothing to them, an agreement with the IMF, that there is enough money. On the other hand, the Federation government says it's not particularly important at all. But here we are all witnessing the unprecedented pressure, and here's these business acrobatics how to reroute the law to be new, to break the point, to put an end to it, and then to fix it, and that's the new law, to get to it. And the money, the money has, so for construction, I'm not against highways, don't, not that Bog understands me wrong, so we have to have highways, now I'd ask these other questions, let's just say, under that old law that's no longer in the procedure, so we've got new opinions, which, among other things, says they're not fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter, the law is probably going to be adopted today. For example, according to the Office for indirect taxation so far there has been no excise on biodiesel i.e. those biofuels, made from corn, rape oil, etc. and we imported some 400 tonnes of biodiesel in 2013. In 2014, we imported over 2 million tons of biodiesel, and in 2015 in 11 months, so in the 12th month, I still don't have the data in, I say, these data were next to the last bill, it says that we imported exactly 11 16 months, now watch this, listen to the figures, 10.482.558 kg and 930 gr. Now if we all know, and if we don't know the Google search engine, the specific weight of the biodiesel is 0.86 and when it's nice to multiply, divide, add, subtract, we get 12.189.022 liters of biodiesel on which, to point out, no excise duties are paid, so 12.189.000 liters of that fuel. So these are the data from the indirect tax administration that knows that, who sent it to us. Now, who's a taxpayer, I believe the IRS also know that it's either a producer or an importer. In this case, the importer didn't pay for it, so he's not even a producer. Look, it's production, and when it comes to that tanker biodiesel, it mixes it with a regular one, so it resells it under a regular diesel, it gets an extra profit, which I'm going to talk about now, and it sells worse fuel, and then they leave us, the golf duo, so it smokes on the street and so on. Now watch out, so this is about these assets, meaning the final price of fuel sold in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I'm talking specifically about biodiesel, those 12.189.022 liters, if I didn't skip, would be the excise charge under the old law, so whoever sold it, the gas station d.o.o. one, would pay the cost of 30 fening, 15 fening toll, 10 fening highway toll, which is 55 fening, when 17% of VAT is added, i.e. another 0.9 fening per litre of fuel was to charge 64 fening, how much gas is paid, on diesel etc. It is a figure of 7,800,974 marks that our Directorate for indirect taxation has never charged, obviously has no intention of billing it, so this is the data for 2015. And if we follow progressive growth from 400,000 to 200,000 to 10,000, I'm convinced over 20 million that it was imported in 2016. For a year, because there was someone here who ran a good reward for a profit. So there's money, which Mr. Raguž spoke, it's a matter of distribution. I'm going to give you another example of a specific distribution. So, Sarajevo County has raised a loan to build a Sarajevo bypass of 200 million KM, absolutely necessary, and it is truly decent, and just, and rightly and rescuely that the capital has a bypass, means that trucks don't have to enter the city center, 200 million, and people have implemented it and made it a Sarajevo bypass, nothing is disputed. However, it is disputed that the Federation government has taken the loan on itself now. Why didn't the Federation government take 200 million, then build a bridge at the Holidays or extend it from Zenica to Banja Luka? She didn't do it, she took the Sarajevo Canton loan. I can understand that for individual colleagues, for example, the Centre municipality that is more important than 10 other municipalities, but you should know that this municipality has as many income as 10 other municipalities, you should know that the Sarajevo County by the distribution of VAT has a coefficient of times two, so they have money. And now by taking over the Federation government, what's going on? It happens that all the citizens of the Federation who haven't seen the Sarajevo bypasses, from my Posuje, from Seja Bihać, from Zenica, all pay for the Sarajevo bypass, and now they have the opportunity to re-indebt, while in other parts of our one and only, we've all been through, we've seen what the roads look like, so the hole in the hole, it's a jack pot to see the asphalt in any way. This, if there's a chance, someone can convince me that these funds will be implemented where they need to be. Is there a possibility, the route of the highway is drawn, okay, the highway goes where it goes, from that bridge up on Savi and down until it is drawn up with the Republic of Croatia – who saw that highway? There's no one from my Posuje, there's no one from Tomislavgrad, there's no one from bihac, we've got nothing to do with it, and we need to finance it, okay, but don't bring back what others have raised, I'm talking specifically about this loan that was raised by the Sarajevo Canton. I think the money's quite enough, I think we're misaligning it thanks to estranged power centers, I don't think we're charging enough what should be charged in accordance with the positive legal regulations, so a flight check, means a flight check, 7,801,000 marks in 2015 is irrevocably missing. Now if we had a prosecutor's office or a court who's doing their job, and not what they're going to do about it, how they're going to set up a political indictment, they'd probably have fun about this, but no, they're interested in the height of their hot meal, and then they're suing Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they're going to rule in their own favor, and that's legitimate, let them do that, it's okay. All of it, as it was in Tito's pathways of revolution, this is what our fight has given us, to tell me, 17 says, this is the Reform Agenda. I've read that reform agenda, it's the same list of wishes, we'd love, we'd like to, we'd like to. This law does not oblige us by anything, any law of the European Union that we must do this. If we do this, who's gonna bail out the money at the end, and I believe someone will, and the ugly ones, I know who's gonna be the one whose resources are gonna go into this, so it's gonna be the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina again, no matter how we don't introduce them to a new imposition and spend their funds, but now we're just gonna skin them like Bog commands. I mean, in a economically advanced country like this, it's really a shame that we still have fuel at certain gas stations under two stamps, so we can run it up to three to four, so let's be more expensive than Brussels if we have to, so I can get ours. This, this reminds me of one thing, and I think that's how it's gonna be, and when this distribution of funds and construction, it's gonna be steaming again, the fucker on the fuck, in the middle of Sarajevo, we're gonna get two more, three more bypasses, and a couple more new belts, and in Herzegovina and in western Bosnia, in central Bosnia, in eastern Bosnia again, without a good jeep, it won't be possible to pass or tractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2728	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Next envoy, Mr. Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2729	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished delegates and delegates, ladies and gentlemen. After these discussions, and otherwise I intended to say a few words, I do not see this question as a question that we need to bring to day policy and since for a long time in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here we have seen, both at the House of Representatives and in preparation of the House of Representatives, and even in the preparation of the House of Peoples, this has become one of the most important issues, issues of all issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But I want to remind you of something else, what we did as the House of Peoples and one example that perhaps in this Bosnia and Herzegovina is just saying that we have come, here I have just heard from my colleagues that the reformski Agenda is a wish list in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are just forgetting one thing, that this Reform Agenda has gone through all the procedures in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, that all the levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina have agreed, and among other things the Parliamentary Assembly and this House of People. I think it's a document that he's done in some way in the past, here's to say in the time of this term, even though I wasn't, uh, part of the congregation's majority, so we've often criticized it, etc. But this document was a document that gave hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina should go through. For this reason, I will only remind myself of two facts, in that reform agenda under point 17, it says this – obavezivati, entities, cantonal levels of government and Brcko District are committed that they will in no way dispute, interfere and block the implementation of arrangements with international financial institutions, which are directly and indirectly linked to reform processes, which a certain level of government has implemented or implemented within its constitutional competences. As far as I'm concerned, there was a possibility that at the time we brought and adopted this Reform Agenda we would all get up and say we will not be making any arrangements with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, we will be on our own and we will solve problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, however we are not. Let's move on, the House of Peoples has been here on two occasions considering plans to implement the Reform Agenda and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where exactly what is to be done, within which deadlines, etc. At its 18th session, the people said, at one point, that it was going slowly, that we were able to implement only one third of the Reform Agenda, which was in February 2016, and the reminders for the sake of, I will note that in the Action Plan under regular number 4 stands – Amendments and additions to the Act of Accises, writes the holder of the activities of the Council of Ministers, the indicative timeline, what will happen after this, and we have all debated and given support to this Action Plan. I know that today what we are doing and what we are discussing on this may not be popular, in the public it is certainly not, here all farmers are against this, but there are other categories of population and what I know in Republika Srpska was a meeting the other day, this, the highest authorities with farmers and it is agreed that this part of the funds related to blue diesel will be refunded, etc. I want to say that as a responsible man, and at least I think that's how I acted here in the House of Peoples, I see that, uh, my colleague Tadić is, uh, a little smiley, but here's the experience, we can also analyze the work and, uh, I consider it to be supportive of, uh, this, this presentation of me, but I want to say as a responsible man, I think that today we should vote for this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, and what this same House needs at some point, and what Mr Karamatić said, we have the opportunity to see, we have the opportunity to analyse, we have the end, this, and in some way we're suggesting that these funds will be used. If we think in the long term, when it comes to infrastructure projects and everything we can say at this point is not satisfactory, is that we can't satisfy it, it's something that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs, it's something that in the future, in the future, generations allow for the end and attract foreign investment and business environments, and if we're going to deal with only daily politics, then we're not going to do anything. For this reason, as much as it seems at this point, because of the speculation in the public and the different view of this issue, I think this is the moment of responsibility and the moment in which, of course, citizens will always say their opinion about how whoever made the decisions and may be punished for such decisions in the elections, but that is what each of us is carrying out and so is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2730	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. The first vice-president, Mr Tadić, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2731	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests, another situation in which the old truth repeats itself, which is that politics is a miracle and that if you are a politician and if you are a political performer, you can explain anything in the way you want, but that principle has one serious feller, and that is that everything you explain is not necessarily and true and it reminded me to tell a story, which is tragic but is talking about us and this country and this, this, how much consciousness has changed. They say that, a friend of mine tells me one, serious, so I believe him, that in his place was some man who was in charge of the meteorological station and for some reason every morning when he wakes up from the house and so they hear those in the nearby pub say – while I'm here, Trebinje won't be warmer than Ribinje, and see Trebinje 19, he announces that 20 is in Ribnik. Now, why am I saying this? My dear friend Dragutin, the correct Rodić, and I are obviously always on different sides when it comes to voting on money. This was the same discussion, more or less, as was the subject of the Council of Ministers in time related to the Elektroprenos of Bosnia and Herzegovina in last year's 2014 session, and that's what scares me, and I'm not afraid of this Council of Ministers, nor that there's going to be any means to come, nor that they're credit or anything 19 long, it's all normal, nothing new, so it's all right, but it doesn't follow that kind of element of the Reform agenda that we've also committed ourselves to, and that's that it's done in a way that's not the subject of guessing, but the premise of efficiency and real interest to create something, because unfortunately, this question is also the victim of diverse levels of blackmail. Why not resolve the blue diesel issue for farmers in Republika Srpska as it should, so that these people have some kind of guarantee that is more systematic and more permanent than one meeting in the Republika Srpska government. Here were the railways meeting in the province square or where they were already, so it's been 15 days or 7 and the question is, did they get the job they had right? It's because of these things, so farmers don't pull us by the hand and accuse you, Mr Rodić and me, of voting for what we trusted politicians on their behalf, because maybe for them we're not even politicians, they might actually see us as representatives of the people, but those people who are in executive power they see as real politicians. And these same farmers, both in the agricultural Prijedor and in agricultural Banja Luka, which is the majority of the population that is employed by the management of the sector, will come and say so what people do, you vote for an increase in this, and we don't have firm guarantees, the type of system guarantee of blue diesel and everything else, that things will be right. That's why we wanted this to go into regular procedure, to discuss this all the way and to, uh, this, this, this, this, this to go the way it would, how we should. As far as this procedure is concerned, I hope the MPs understand that it is clear to the public what it is. So the laws that did not go through the emergency procedure at the House of Representatives and the new laws were passed, along with some small numotechnical corrections, adopted at the phone session, as I understood, which are now new laws, so when we adopt this, this can now go back to emergency procedure at the House of Representatives, which means what they said to be 19 - 19 in the House of Representatives is no longer valid, that is the meaning of this procedure. Be careful, it may be politically well played, but it is important that the public knows that this is partly done because the vote in the House of Representatives when four MPs from the SDA voted that they voted, when the MPs from the Alliance for Change voted as they voted, when MPs from other parties voted as they voted, that this vote no longer applies, that it is, that it is, that it has been analyzed. Now, as far as that approach is concerned, this, uh, commitment from the Reform Agenda, well, that's quite clear, so no one's thinking of challenging something that's useful. We're up to it, especially if it's something that's inherited, before the Reform Agenda is established, signed, you have to act like a legalist, you have to, you have to respect the obligations that have taken place for some right that you've previously acquired under some agreement and it's not questionable. However, there are also some things, such as these, which have been arranged in walking, completed, etc. And in that sense, they are not in themselves controversial, but our inner relationship with them is controversial. Do not prevent us from solving this issue for farmers more quality than it has been resolved perhaps at a meeting of good intentions and assurances, and the only guarantee that this is all right is that it was published in the Radio-Television Journal of Republika Srpska. So, I ask as a politician and as a parliamentarian that the things politicians agree on with the people be published where it is indeed official, and that is "the official messenger of Republika Srpska" and not the Radiotelevision of Republika Srpska. Republika Srpska's radiotelevision is there to transmit information, "the official messenger" is there to publish what the law is, what the rights are, what the obligations are. When it is published in "The Official Messenger of Republika Srpska" I will say you have our vote on all the obligations that, according to farmers, have been made. I don't see anything being published. Now, in which we still have one difference and to bring in, uh, the end of this, this, this, what I'm saying. This country has problems, a lack of economic activity which, I would say, is not the fault of 20 Alliances for Change or is much less guilty than others and has led to us being poor and without money to make those wishes that some other people in their countries in our environment realize and well, that is a fact and should be faced with it. When the crisis was in Portugal regarding recession, then they announced a policy of behavior change, so the family that had 3 cars, had one, if someone had 3 cell phones, reduced it to one, if someone had a cost of 1,000 euros for something, reduced it to 200, reducing their costs in such a way as to give up what he didn't need. We're acting like everything we've done is great, it's ideally working, and now we need more money and we don't want to... which, which are not necessary, are not even real, but rather, we act as if we're creating some new levels, some new forms of luxury, etc. To satisfy ourselves with some feeling of living better than we are, that we can do more than we can and that we are richer than we are. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] That's why every country in this situation needs to wonder what its priorities are. We have in the budget things that are really unnecessary to this country, it's hard to say it here, you won't accept 90%, but that's how it is. We need the completely unnecessary Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 9,000 people who do not serve, with all due respect to them as individuals, nothing significant, except now that someone has told me, and when it was a flood these people were saving. Well, I mean, okay, thank you, and they should have, they were saving their own. So, 9,000 people, it's not a dispute that 9,000 people are, but it's 290 million KM a year, so we pay to get 9,000 people to act as an army. So, acting as an army, we pay 290 million KM a year. I'm the minister, now, asking the finance -- how many will they get together with this? It says - 314 million, of which goes 78 million a year for roads. We will find ourselves in a situation if we want roads, if we want economic development to give up some of the things we pay for, and they serve nothing and anyone in this country except for the satisfaction of some feeling that this country has and what it doesn't need. Now there's, let me say, some difference in the Alliance's approach to change and some of the other parties behind this kind of coalition. After all, it's important that there's a majority, now what most of it is to the one who enjoys most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2732	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Now we have replicas, Mr. Rodić and Mr. Karamatić, so we'll do it in a row. Mr. Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2733	I, uh, it's short notice, I don't have the usual to replicate at all, but since Mr. Tadić directly mentioned two votes of me and him in the past session and now, and maybe that's a skillful or awkward thing to say when it comes to money and financial reports, we're different here. We differ by something else, and here I thought by this moment that Ognjen Tadić was a position, and now I don't understand at all, uh, after this discussion where we are and which group Ognjen Tadić belongs to. On the other hand, the difference is still in something, I quite responsibly argue, I come from Republika Srpska, as we know, I am not a representative of a fishing society, nor of any voluntary society, but I am chosen by the National Assembly and I want it and it is my way of working to respect the institutions of Republika Srpska, and in the end you have introduced a practice of working together with the institutions of Republika Srpska, and often it is with others that it causes annoying attitudes when we say it is not sufficiently harmonised, etc. And in all these votes and difficult decisions and unpopular decisions, I want to consult with the institutions. We may belong to different political, uh, options in terms of, uh, there's position and opposition, here we are something else, but I'm always trying to make that decision that I and as an individual think is correct and 21 will make, uh, sort of progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course in Republika Srpska. For this reason, let's not bring this down on the relations between you and me, as we voted on it, but on policy relations and relations towards certain institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2734	Thank you. Mr. Karamatić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2735	Thank you. So more clarified, I said at the beginning of my address that I'm not against highways, and I'm not against highways. But I think this could have been done differently. The 314 million that will be collected in 2015 alone in 11 months I found you 7 million, what about 2014, what about 2013, what about 2016? Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, entities, counties, have mechanisms to collect what belongs to them under current laws, which is why they do not do so, whether they need more control, this can be discussed. Does anyone here know how much fuel is released to the toll to get into the mines and the railroads, does anyone know how much that fuel ends up in free sale? I was just telling you here, 12 million liters imported to Bosnia and Herzegovina, is there anyone in this respected House or in front of a TV screen or a radio listener who saw biodiesel being poured on a gas station? What someone needs to charge, the thing is that someone didn't do their job -- and what do we do, how do we get out of it? We're going out very elegantly, so don't let them do their job, and we'll transfer financial responsibility to the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that's the way, I think institutions should do their jobs, that we should all go back into the legal frameworks, that the indirect tax administration if it sees that 12 million liters of money has to be charged to the final producer. How do they charge, who saw the hop plantations in Bosnia and Herzegovina? He's gone, he's gone, so no hop grower, but we got brewers. And what they do, the same thing they do with the biodiesel that you spoil it with the ordinary, you smudge that powder with water from the tap and they sell us under our homemade beer, and that's what taxes and excises are charged and it's all charged. So you can do it whenever you want. The question is why someone didn't want to do this. The question is, I say, how much toll-free fuel that goes for mines and railways doesn't end up in mines or railways at all. The question of how much fuel was stolen from the Gacko thermal power plant, etc. So I don't get the details now. So there's an example, there's money, and that's why I'm telling you the exact reason, because political personnel are persistently in the agencies and clearly they can't do their job. So we need educated, professional people to do it. Here, all the time we're talking about highways, I remember here, eve and today we're going to have one vote of confidence, I won't be long, Mr. Chairman, half-minute, trust of the Deputy Minister, I remember when you were here in this room praising your former deputy, former Minister of Transport and Communications who, at the time of his term of office, has not passed any laws, no rules, so he didn't do anything at all. Why did they praise him? Well, because the other ministers next to him looked like Formula 1. Today you have a minister who does his job and others need to be done. So let's set up people who will do their job in adequate places, both at the Directorate for indirect taxation, both in SIPA, and then we won't have any problems. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2736	Thank you. No more reports, no more interests, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We are now voting on the Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You can vote. Of the 15 present – for it was 10, against 4. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 7 for, against 2.1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against, there were no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensation in BiH Court and Prosecutoral Institutions (first reading) – Short Procedure – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16 of 11.10.2016 and 14.12.2017 with Opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill's proposal, the first is the debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. At the last 26th session, held on 01.02.2017, the House of Peoples did not adopt a negative opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensations in the Judicial and Prosecutoral Institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in accordance with Article 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People, the Committee is in charge of drawing up a new opinion, having regard to the debate held at the House meeting. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission has not accepted the principles of the bill proposal. I give my word to the President of the Committee, Mrs. Zovko, if he appreciates his needs. Just like in the report. Thank you. I give my word to the law's promoter, if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Raguž answered. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2738	Thank you. Here we see that this defacto falls twice on the Committee and I think the situation is clear with this Law, but since it is about the amendment and addition of the Law on the salaries of 23 employees, I think we as legislators should consider a few things. First, these solutions are not good, for at least 3 reasons. I will state first, so they are not in line with Article IX point (2) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says that compensation for persons acting in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office of those duties, so that's one thing. Second, according to Article I(2) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina is said to be a democratic state. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a democratic state, must ensure that executive and legislative authorities do not interfere in an inappropriate way in the work of the judiciary, so this is the principle in this way, in some ways, brought into question. And the third thing is, these solutions in this Law are contrary to Article 1. The Law on Payments in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which rules out the application of this Law to the judiciary itself, and how can the remuneration from working relationship be determined by the Sublaw Act of the Council of Ministers adopted under the Law which excludes its application to them? That is, therefore, enough reason not to adopt this Law. What's the solution? I think the solution is for the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice to open direct communication with the competent institutions in the judiciary and to work through one respect, of course, competences and respects in the preparation of laws concerning the positions of people in the judiciary. And this is a practice in modern democratic states and I will take an example of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia where when any law is passed, the draft law concerning the judicial authority, it must go to the opinion of those institutions. I think it's time to open up this practice, and we don't behave here in a way if the situation is bad in the judiciary, and it's bad that, through the adoption of legal solutions, we reflect our position towards one very important, in fact, key branch of the government that we are responsible for providing it with uninterrupted legal, material, financial, and any other business so that we can really deal with the challenges. So, I expect, therefore, that following the failure of this Law, the following steps will be followed by these principles that I have spoken of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2739	...now Mrs. Džambas signed up. I'd do it like this. Since our college has agreed to take a break from one hour, so by 1:45, Džambas'll let you say it, and then we'll take a break from the hour and come 13:45. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2740	I am a member of the Finance Committee and there is Mr Rodić, who is extremely good at doing this job, Mr Babalj, Mr Podžić and we are and we really are, it is unclear what we are discussing when it comes to pay, or compensation for these for the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, we have nothing against anyone, that everyone has these rights. However, it is known that there is a Law on Payments and Compensations of Judges and Prosecutors at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that has brought a high representative. It began to apply from 01.01.2005. it was then passed, the Law of the High Representative that no one can even look at, so it was the High Representative who passed the Law and is called, salaries and fees in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. When the average in Bosnia and Herzegovina salary was 460-470 marks, the decision was made, he gave it, to increase salaries 9.9 times, 10 average Bosnia and Herzegovina salaries due to the weight of the job. As it was 24 horrifying in 2004, the explanation was that this law contained everything that belonged to judges and prosecutors in the ten-time salary of an average BiH citizen. And as long as there was a high representative there no one complained about it, and as soon as he sat on the plane to leave the room, they complained, they went to human rights, because there was another law, the Law of Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina where it was demarcated, which is a warm meal, which is, in turn, one quite another. All the time in the Committee, we're asking what law we're working on? Just for someone to explain it to us, and here yesterday we had a chance to be with the auditors, they gave some kind of example completely unrelated to this, and then I asked -- well, when you come in and you're doing a review at the Court and the D.A.'s office by which, because two laws, no one put off the law that brought the High Representative, and we have this other one? Then they said, by one law we work with officials in the Court, and according to this other we work for the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, and we combine the law in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office together. From this, this corresponds to that, because in the Law of the High Representative they were protected they were, so it was written then, I'm talking about a tenfold pay, that as long as they pay, the average salary in BiH does not reach 800 marks, no one can touch their salary, a salary that applies to everything. When the average salary exceeds 800 marks, as it is now, it is automatically regulated and increased their wages. It's nothing in officials and all of these who work in state institutions. That's what we're talking about. When and when will the Law of the High Representative be out of force and the Law of All apply to all? For I have asked: well, if we bring ourselves and say to ourselves there is no charge in the course of business, is that worth it to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office? It's not worth it. While the regression here was 1 Marks, it was a decision, I agree, and now it would be normal for the regression to be 1 Marks, there was half a salary, so 2,300 marks. This now requires the Council of Ministers to regress 300 marks, but they said in the meantime, the lawsuit is ready immediately. Because one morning they're drinking coffee, one is suing one court, in a moment they're doing it, the hour of work, it's over. We have received a letter from the High Court, from the President of the Court in which he says, whatever you say, practically when read, whatever you do, we are protected by the Constitution and will not be applied. We get a letter and one who should defend the interests of the Council of Ministers and all institutions, I'm talking about Deputy Advocates of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who says in his letter that they have been complaining since 2006 about when the High Representative left, and this is how they were paid, according to those first claims, 2,600,000, is currently in the review of 30 cases, it's a new 3 million damages, plus tens of them, it says, tens of thousands of stamps for tight interest and everything else. While other people, who also had the right to regress, when they complain years pass, then go out of court so there are no tight ones. Of course, they're judges and prosecutors, they're evicting everything they need. And let it all go, I don't mind people, not being denied human rights, but all I'm asking is that someone, there's no one who can tell us when this one is abolished and when it's worth this and how they go into the combination. That's why we're on the Commission, we really don't know what it's about. I don't know anything now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2741	Okay, thank you, thank you for the debate. Since we're no longer registered, I'm closing the debate, to end this agenda item. We are now voting on the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. Please, you can vote, just to get us started on this mechanism. You can vote. There were 14 present – for 12, against 2 abstentions. From the Federation – 7 for, against 2, there were no abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, there were no, no, there is a general majority, there is an entity majority. 25 So, since we have accepted the Opinion, I will read Article 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which reads – If the House accepts the Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, the proposed Law is considered rejected. It would have been the same if it had been the opposite, so, uh, twice negative opinion, so, just would have. Here, so here we have an hour's rest, or somewhere by 13:45 we should continue, continue our work. Go ahead, sir, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2742	I'm sorry, but I think it would be a good idea to take this break now and carry out the necessary actions needed for item 41 if we hadn't predicted it, so that the first point 41 will be the first point, and then the rest of the point to go. Because we'll be back in position for an hour waiting for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2743	I, well, here's the answer, of course, that we had in mind and we were seriously considering such a possibility, but they told us that actually, uh, after that, no one could enter the hall, in this room of ours, uh, except here to tell us who we are here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2744	Who says that? Whoever says he can't come in after the point, really let him explain it to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2745	After being held, yes, it can be held afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2746	Let's get out of here and explain that data protection, I'm very interested in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2747	Nothing, we'll hire now, you're right, uh, we'll hire them some devices and we'll switch, uh, that point. Okay, I get it. There's no video/a short shot. [[PAUZA]] Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 13, there was no, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against none, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska 5 for, against no one, abstentioned no one. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree with the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax was adopted in the first reading. 26 We move to the eighth item of today’s session, that is, Ad. 8. Request for reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers by replacing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Defence Minister, Mr Sead Jusić
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2750	I don't have anything to say about the Ministry of Defense, I don't have that information, but if I'm looking at this situation as a citizen, then let's first say I believe in the position set up by the president of the party, we've seen it through our Minister Jusk Defence, Mr. Jusić, that these are the staff that do a good job. The request for their shift would never have been supported absolutely, especially as it did, but I was like a representative, or emissary, whom people ask – and what happened there? I have no idea, except that she respected herself, that Mr. Jusić respected the decision and respected the Supreme Commander, in this case the BiH Presidency or the BiH presidency president, I would not have entered that part, except that we are wondering – what would have happened if the decision had not been respected, would the consequences then be far, far greater than those discussed? And I would certainly never agree to or vote for any of those who do the job as ordered, especially order in terms of the Ministry of Defence, but I am also ready to vote for this shift now because the president proposes such a shift. So, just because the president of the party, who is responsible for setting up staff as ministers and deputy ministers, asks for it, then I think he probably knows it best, but I'd be sorry if I hadn't at least said it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2751	Thank you. Have there been any further reports of debate on this agenda point? I don't see any interest. I'm closing the debate. 27 We are now voting on a request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers by the replacement of Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister, Mr Sead Jusić. Please prepare to plead. Of the 14 present – for it was 8, against 5, he was abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against none, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – it was not for, it was against all 5 and it was not abstention. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. We're running a second round of pleas. Of the 14 present – for it was 8, versus 5, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – for 8, against no one, abstention 1. Republika Srpska – for no one, against 5 and abstention was no one. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. I understand that we have not adopted a request for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers by replacing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Deputy Defence Minister and Heregovina Sead Jusić. We're going to the ninth item of today's session, that's Ad. Nine. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Grant Management in Institutions", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, issue: 02/3-16-1-3261/16 of 30.12.2016. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The commission has adopted the following conclusions, and is proposing to the House their adoption. 1. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the institutions covered by the Impact Review Report to report within six months to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on planned and undertaken activities to implement the recommendations from the Report, and to meet the Office for the Audit of Institutions. 2. It requires the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina referred to in point 1 of this conclusion to deliver information in a table view so that it clearly mentions the name of the report recommendation, planned, or undertaken activities to implement the recommendations, the operator of the activities, the time limits for implementation and the degree of realization (realized, partially realised, implemented in progress, not realised) in that case, it is necessary to specify the reasons for which the recommendation has not been implemented. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 41st session, held on 18.01.2017. I give the word to Mrs. Zovko, president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2753	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2754	Like in the report, okay. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's here and if there's any need. There's no need. 28 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up the word for this point? We have Mr. Nović's report. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2755	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I answer for two reasons. First of all, I want to just give two, three findings to this audit report and the second conclusion that this House is offered to accept. If you are careful, and I suppose you are like me, you have read that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they have determined, allocated over 66 million marks through grants for two years in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are not so small funds, and in the point of discussion and taking care of farmers, we took care of everyone, we talked about what it means to get our hands into other people's pockets, but obviously when we have money, it's worrying how we spend it. This wouldn't be any issue to me, and I even think it's a little bit of an institution that needs to be allocated through grants, but I'm much more concerned about the way the funds have been shared here in all these, uh, years. It is simply amazing if you look to say that the Council of Ministers has prescribed, as it has been before, on the basis of a public call. Great, but this second item is very worrying, for certain grants it is defined that one part of the funding is made on the basis of a public call, and the other part on the basis of the individual applications submitted. Pure privatisation of funds at this level. Who is it that knows about, that a single request should be made? One who's either whispered or called, so make sure you make that request. And what I can't believe, I can't believe, which, when I was a minister, turned down those midwives who offered me the same thing, and I can see now that there is, please look, a part of the grant in the Ministry of Civil Affairs for the field of culture and the field of sports is left as the right of the Minister and the Ministry to propose, on the basis of these individual demands, and the Council of Ministers grants. And so the poor resources that we give to this unfortunate culture, and so part of the 1,597,000 funds are allocated through a public competition, and 1.500,000 by decision of the Ministry of Civil Affairs on the basis of individual demands, half. Does that make sense? So don't be surprised and don't be surprised and don't be surprised, when we see who was getting all the money, and since it's been released, so you saw, I'm not going back to it now, I think it's more than worrying. Never will this country be able to raise as much money as we can spend in vain, I think it's inadmissible. And look at the sport, through a public competition 537.000 is awarded to the Council of Ministers' decisions, and on the proposal of civil affairs, and on the basis of individual requirements, more than that figure. I admire those who so wish to take that responsibility upon themselves. I am particularly concerned that, it is concluded by the auditors who say – that on the basis of the insight of the documents of the grant user found that the evidence provided by the user does not refer to the fulfilment of the conditions of the competition. Isn't this a classic abuse? Who is it that has the right, even if it was called the Council of Ministers or someone else, to grant those funds beyond the contest? I think we finally need to reassemble ourselves and tell each other what's wrong and what's wrong. This isn't just about today, this is obviously a problem much deeper and it's been going on for years and I'm afraid it's going to take a while. That's why I don't agree with the conclusion that here is so formalized that I have to tell you that I am ashamed to see this conclusion. We say – The House of People asks the Council of Ministers and Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are covered by the Impact Review Report, within six months, to report to the House on planned and undertaken activities to implement the recommendations they have made. So what are we doing? In six months, they'll let us know what they're planning. Of course, it goes, it's already New Year's Eve, if Bog let elections come, they'll do it in '18. The same happens, so let us be at least at the minimum of the level of this House and therefore I suggest, if this House wants us to say, that within six months they remove all observed irregularities and implement the recommendations of the audit and report this House. 29 That's my suggestion, because otherwise I don't think it's worth it then to support this proposed conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2756	Thank you. Is there more? I don't see any more interest. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Wesaći get to the bottom of the report first. So we are now voting on the Impact Review Report on "Government Management in Institutions". You can vote. Of the 14 present, it was 12 against none, contained 2. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against none, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, no one against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Grant management in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina" has been adopted. Now we should vote on the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples, but now we have what counterpart Nović has proposed. If I did, you followed the secretaries, let's see. /Consultations of the President and of the Secretary/ About what a colleague is, can we, can we reconcile these two points of view so that if you accept that as the commission that he has proposed? Uh, let's get clear about what a colleague is, if we accept, so what counterpart Nović has suggested, then there won't be any need for a first conclusion to vote on, I understand that. Prepare to make a statement about this, we have recorded it in tone, about the vote, so on the change of this first conclusion as Col. Nović suggested. Thank you. Of the 14 present – for it was 12, against 1st abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against no one, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, against 1, no one was abstentioned. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So now there is no need to make a statement about the first conclusion, given that we adopted this amendment, so to speak, the conclusion of colleague Nović. So then we'll get to the bottom of the conclusion number two that suggested this commission. Please prepare to plead. _________(?) 30 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2760	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2761	Like in the report, okay. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and has a need. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Impact Review Report on the subject: "Planning budget expenditures in BiH institutions". Prepare to plead. Of the 13 present, it was 11, v. 1 and abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against and abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The planning of budgetary expenditures in BiH institutions" has been adopted. It's the 31st item of the agenda, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016, issue: 05/2-50-19-386/17 of 07.02.2017. You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, the Committee did not accept the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 43rd session, held on 23.03.2017. I give the word to Mr Podžić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2763	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2764	There's no need. Thank you. I give the word to the Reporter. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up the phone? No interest, no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016. Prepare to plead. Out of those 13 - 9 were for, against no one, abstentioned 4. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, against no one, 3 abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, against no one and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016 has been adopted. Point 12 of the agenda, Ad. 12. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2016, issue: 05/350-19-402/17 of 07.02.2019. You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH, the Commission has adopted a report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2016. The House of Representatives adopted the Report on 23.03.2017. I give the word again to Mr. Podžić if he has any needs. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2766	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2767	No, thank you. Reporter. There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone here to discuss this? There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for 2016. Prepare to plead. Of the 13 present – there were 12, no votes against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH –
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2768	No microphone turned on... Mr. Babalj, voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2769	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2770	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2771	We can, I ask you to restart the plea, we will respect, we will honor Mr. Babalj. Please start again, you can vote now. You just press for it and it'll be fine. So thank you. Of the 13 present, there were 13 votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, it was not against votes or abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner was adopted for 2016, of course. Moving to point 13. That's it, Ad. 13. Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interest for 2016, issue: 01,02,03-50-19-331/17 of 31.01.2017. A report was received on the work of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2016. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 43rd session, held on 23.03.2017. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's present. There's no need. 33 I'm opening a debate. Is there anyone here to discuss this? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the report on the work of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest for 2016. Please prepare to plead. Vote. Of the 13 present, there were 13 against and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against and abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the 2016 Commission's report on the decision-making work on conflict of interest was adopted. Point 14 of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, issue: 05/1-50-19-469/17 of 14.02.2017 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of BiH police structure for 2017, issue: 05/1-50-19-467/17 of 14.02.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2774	Well, I don't know one thing, since you said, uh, that the report wasn't accepted, but the work plan was accepted, I think maybe we should separate, uh, the question of voting, right? I don't have another one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2775	Thank you. Reporter, no need. _________(?) 34 [[no microphone turned on]] Okay. I'm opening a debate. Now does anyone want to discuss this agenda point? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on, firstly, the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2791	No microphone turned on (?) A microphone. So, working in this Committee, you've seen, if you've read, how many times has the competition been repeated, and it's all because no individuals from the people have applied, or from the order of the others, and after more than a year we've barely got a list of nine names, and they've chosen four, three of the constituent people, one of the others, and all of this is happening from the moment that famous law was introduced, where this commission had to, or these members of the Management Board of the Agency for Higher Education,... I personally consider it extremely important that the Agency can't work or work, but how with... because we can't choose members because of that shameful price of their work. And that means if they come from Bihaæ, from Banja Luka, from Mostar for 475 marks at three sessions in one month, but of course after 5:00 p.m., and to that end, we know very well what the conditions are for someone to be a member, so these are the doctors of science that when they deliver the CV, you have something to read and watch what these people do. And we had 25 candidates before, that you could choose, but here right now, I appreciate anyone who applied and I don't want to downsize, but you really don't have a choice, people don't answer because it's embarrassing. We can talk that it's not much, it's great 475, but for the conditions that set up that number of people is very small in this Bosnia and Herzegovina that can meet the conditions and therefore we get people who are here somewhere from eastern to western Sarajevo, there a little bit worse, down there, that it's worth it at all, because of course everything about their cost and travel, if they have to pay themselves that night at night. So this all looks like it, I'm going to repeat, it's like choosing people from here. Yeah, well, then we have pensioners, and then the man's a retired professor says, which I'm going to have a shameful pension of 800 marks and I'm going to sign up for this. I don't think that's why someone would be a member of the Management Board and run this higher education that has a hundred problems, and that really if you have to continue to insist on the Ministry of Finance so that here someone comes from where counterpart Sead or those from Banja Luka or those from Bijeljina, where they come from, that they can contribute to the work of higher education. Everything needs to be done, the pressure on the Ministry of Finance that I am only talking about this Committee, about this Agency, about this Governing Board of theirs, that this should be returned to normal and that it should be respected such an important job that they are dealing with and what difficult conditions to be a member of such one, such as one of the Management Boards of the valid Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2793	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 43 Now we will vote, so we must declare the candidate ranking for the appointment of four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 10, against 3, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one was against, abstention 1. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, without the abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with you: Momčilo Poljić, Sanja Bijakšić, Sanjina Kodrić and Zlat Kundurović to the members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. Moving to point 25. Ad. 25. Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of BiH since 07.04.2017. At its 44th session, held on 07.04.2017, the College of the Peoples set out a proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Legislatives of BiH, you received a proposal for a conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to plead. Of the 14 present – for it was 12, against 1st abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Legislatives of BiH. On the agenda there is still agreement to ratify agreements, memos, conventions and amendments to agreements. It's proposed, I'll read it, so I'll give you my word anyway, I suggest we unite the debate and the statement on the points, listen to me carefully from 26th to 40th, including point 29th, which we will issue separately and vote on. If you got a good guess on the 29th because there was a prenomination, fine. I'm opening a debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2798	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen in your opinion, the Commission has not given a positive opinion on this Memorandum, this is an unusual situation for both the People's House and the Commission. We met with 45 problems that led us to hold a hearing twice on the Commission on this, and we eventually re-voted. The reasons are also because it's unusual that this kind of memoranda appears with us, maybe the newspaper is one, we may have to get used to it, but the main reason why most of us didn't vote for this is that because it's a private donation in the matter of the state guarantees certain things that, you'll let, inadmissible. So no one was against donations to private companies, but it was against the state to guarantee and have obligations under the agreement for the private donation. This is why the Commission's position by revote was adopted on 3:2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-07-0.u2799	Thank you. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Are there any reports of a hearing? No, there's no one. I'm closing the debate. I now vote, so we vote on giving consent to, for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Construction and Equipment of the Research Institute "kralj Salman bin Abdulaziz“ at the University of Sarajevo School of Science and Technology between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please prepare to plead. So from the 13 present -- for 5, against the 7, it was abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – for 5, against 3.1 abstention. Republika Srpska -- there were no votes for, 4 against, no abstentions. There is no general majority, therefore I must conclude that we did not agree to ratify the Memorandum of Understanding for the Construction and Equipment of the Research Institute "kralj Salman bin Abdulaziz“ at the University of Sarajevo School of Science and Technology between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 41. That's it, Ad. 41. Appointment of the People's House's temporary investigative committee to obtain information on foreign policy status in Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a proposal for the appointment of the Interim Investigative Commission of the People's House to obtain information on foreign policy status in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Karamatić, do you still need to explain your proposal or do you not have one? You don't. I'm opening a debate. Have the names been delivered to everyone? _________(?) No, they're not. 46
