ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18129	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 47th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, today's session was called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, media representatives. In addition to the guests listed, since this is a session with only one item of the agenda, and the federal minister of justice, the minister of justice of Republika Srpska, the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the President of the BiH Court of Justice, the prosecutor general of the BiH Prosecutor General, the President of the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH, the president of the Supreme Court of Republika Srpska, the chief prosecutor of the Federal Prosecutor's Office of the Federation of BiH, the chief prosecutor of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republika Srpska, the president of the BiH Court of Appeal and the chief prosecutor of the Brcko District of BiH. I warmly welcome all present MPs and all present guests. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak and Civil Affairs Minister Adil Osmanović and Deputy Civilian Minister Vojin Mijatović delivered a notice of the inability to attend the session due to official travel. The absence was justified by MPs Dušanka Majkić and Nikola Špirić, and I received a letter from the minister of justice in Republika Srpska this morning, who is unable to attend today's session because of the busyness and obligation to represent the laws he has today at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. According to the service information, I did not receive any other notices, nor did it receive the service, according to the service, a total of 37 representatives attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Dear, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at the session of the Expansive College and the College on several occasions, we have agreed that this session, which is a regular session, has only one item on the agenda, and after this session we have the 48th session with all the other points of the agenda. Today’s session has the following: Agenda 1. Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption, the BiH Ministry of Justice material, issue: 01-50-19-1344/17, dated 25.05.2017. 2 Since this is a regular session, regardless of our agreement, I must ask you, do you have any suggestions for changing the agenda? Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18130	The Honorable Chairman. As far as the agenda is concerned, I would like to say that I believe that there are no conditions for us to open this special session and suggest that we move immediately to this regular session. In fact, the material delivered to us for this special session is such that we get quality material on the most ordinary parliamentary issue, rather than the material that should be the basis for a serious debate at a special session as is the case today. I don't really understand about this subject that this is not a priority issue for the College of the House of Representatives for one thematic session of the issue of Bosnian Herzegovic radio-television, but rather because, together with me, almost seven, eight MPs have sent one such request for an emergency session, but for more than a year, there has been no such session. And now, on a proposal from the College member, Mr. Bosić, we have a special session. I must also say, openly, express my dissatisfaction with how it is possible to propose a huge number of Members of Parliament who have asked for a special session around BHRT, a special session on human rights violations of citizens who speak Bosnian language cannot be organised, and next time, meetings are organised on Mr. Bosić's proposal [[Employee is warned on time]] So this special session with this kind of material really doesn't meet the basic conditions. [[Employee is warned on time]] And if we open up a debate on a subject like this, you'll see that there's, even in such bad information, anti-constitutional findings that are inadmissible. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18131	Thank you very much, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18132	The proposal is, therefore, that we are not discussing today because we really did not get the conditions on this agenda point and move on. at a regular session. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18133	I would ask all MPs when they report for the word to respect the time that is scheduled. I warned several times, even advertised that time was respected. I'm asking the service to turn off the microphone for anyone who's timed out, I've never done this before, intended for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18134	As far as time is concerned, I fully agree with you, just principledly stick to it, as soon as someone oversteps time, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, I agree that it should be intervened. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18136	On the other hand, I urge you to interpret the Rules of Procedure in principle because for almost a year I warn that you were obliged to provide at least one session in 2016 for both...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18137	Mr. Bećirović thank you very much, it doesn't matter, thank you very much, it has nothing to do with the debate on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18138	Mr. Džaferović, it has something to do with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18139	Thank you very much, you're done, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18140	So, I'm finishing up and calling you, respect the Rules of Procedure... by regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18141	Mr. Košarac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18142	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, others present in this room. Well, I'd just say, before I base my attention on our agenda proposal, that what Mr. Bećirović said is the complete truth. This is where the public should know that the Constitutional Commission agreed only with two votes from this House, two MPs from the House of Representatives voted only for this Information on the Constitutional Legal Commission. This speaks enough about the quality of the material and it speaks enough about how they want to bypass those basic truths about the state of the procedure itself and what the position of the MPs of the House of Representatives is about the Information that is on today's agenda. And, of course, the fact that this information in the House of Representatives was almost 18. January., it seems to me, and there have been very important moments to discuss this in the event of the election of the President of the Court of Justice of BiH and when the VSTV made it clear that political pressure is being put on the Party of Democratic Action to elect the President of the Court of BiH. Then Parliament kept quiet and then there was no initiative, but it speaks enough of the state...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18143	Please refer to the draft agenda, Mr. Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18144	Appreciating the Rules of Procedure, using the Rules of Procedure, Article 71, I am taking the opportunity to propose to the MPs of the House of Representatives the agenda, which is – a decision on the resolution of the chairman, Šefik Džaferović, from the post and from the chairman and member of the Kolegijum. 4 We will not give up from the very beginning of our mandate, we have come out with our clearly defined political position when it comes to you, your presidency and your representation of the House of Representatives and I find it correct to continue. And we're asking colleagues in the House of Representatives to come forward about our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18145	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. There is no debate or vote on Mr Bećirović's proposal, that is the decision of the College, the decision of the Extended College. So we have today's session with this agenda point, it's not possible to postpone the Rules of Procedure. I'm putting in Mr. Košarac's proposal for mine, including a point for my shift to vote. Prepare to vote. 4 votes for, 30 against, 4 abstentions. This proposal is not supported. I note that today's session agenda is the Information on the State of Justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special focus on the fight against organised crime and corruption, the BiH Ministry of Justice material, issue: 01-50-19-1344/17, since 25.05.2017. I'm asking the committee responsible for monitoring and respecting the Codex for leaving the O.R. without reporting to the chairman, the chairman,... considering at the first next session of the commission. So we're moving on to the agenda, Ad. 1. Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption, the BiH Ministry of Justice material, issue: 01-50-19-1344/17, dated 25.05.2017. In 28.12.2016, MP Mladen Bosić delivered an initiative to call a special session of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, with one item on the agenda – Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption. Dom's colleague addressed the BiH Council of Ministers' initiative with a request for that information. The BiH Ministry of Justice provided the requested information on 25/05/2017. The House College has designated the Constitutional Commission as competent to consider the information. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 13 June 2017. The Commission did not take the information into account. I am opening a debate and calling on a representative of the Council of Ministers, if he wishes, to address Parliament. Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18147	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs, MPs, gentlemen from the judicial bodies at all levels of Bosnia and Herzegovina, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption, has been compiled by the justice ministry on the basis of data obtained by the BiH Judiciary and Prosecutorial Council, and I will present it briefly. So, there are four laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina on courts that have established courts and... the jurisdiction of organisations, internal structures, financing and other issues that are important for their functioning – the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, the Law on the Courts of the Federation, the Law on the courts of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the courts of the Brcko District. The number of courts and judges, in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Board, determines the VSTV for all courts and its jurisdiction after consulting the President of the Court, the body responsible for the budget, and in entities and with the competent justice ministry. A total of 80 courts were established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, including courts in the phase of the establishment. At the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the BiH Court of Justice was formed in which 53 judges were appointed. There are currently 32 municipal courts in the Federation of BiH, more departments above court headquarters, 10 county and the Federation Supreme Court. The total number of regular judges in the municipal, county and Supreme Court in the Federation of BiH is currently 601 regular judges and 63 additional judges, and 97 professional associates in municipal courts appointed by the VSTV. In Republika Srpska, 20 basic courts, 6 district, 6 district economics, the Higher Economic Court and the Supreme Court of Republika Srpska were established. The current number of appointed regular judges in all courts in Republika Srpska is 335 and 28 additional judges. The Brcko District established the Basic and Appeal Court of Brcko District. Eight judges were appointed to the Court of Appeal, 18 regular and 2 additional judges. So currently 1,015 regular and 93 additional judges have been appointed to work in courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A ratio of administrative staff compared to the number of judges - 3,257 persons, non-judgment staff were employed in the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, compared to the number of 1,108 judges currently serving as judges by one judge, with a ratio of 4,07 per judge in the BiH Federation courts of 3.14, in Republika Srpska at 3.0 and in Brcko District at 1.84. As far as prosecutors are concerned, when it comes to legislation regulated by the organisation of prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the situation is somewhat more complex, so that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have a total of 14 laws that have the establishment, structure and functioning of prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The number of prosecutors and non-securial staff, in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Board, shall be determined by the Council by the number of prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutor General of the Prosecutor's Office following consultations with the Prosecutor General, the Authority responsible for the budget, and by entities and the relevant justice ministry. A total of 21 prosecutors were established in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The current number of appointed prosecutors in the BiH prosecution is 59, in the Federation of BiH 215 prosecutors, Republika Srpska 97, and in Brcko District 9 prosecutors. So at present, 380 prosecutors have been appointed to work in Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecution. A ratio of the number of administrative staff to the number of prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecutors is 803 persons employed, compared to the number of 380 prosecutors currently in office, according to one prosecutor, 2.11 persons, non-insecutive staff, with the prosecutor's office of 3.17 per prosecutor, in the Federation of BiH 1,80, in Republika Srpska 2,17, and in Brcko District 2.0 per prosecutor. 6 The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the Agreement on the transfer of responsibility to the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, formed the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH with responsibilities relating to the entire judiciary, including the prosecutorial post. Furthermore, by signing the Agreement on the Transfer of Jurisdiction, the signatories agreed to vertically transfer certain competences to a concrete institution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is important to note that the objective of signing the Agreement was precisely to unite jurisdiction over entity justice, in order to strengthen the independence of the judiciary... of a council with unique standards, so to establish a harmonised, rounded system of justice throughout the country, with equal standards of independence, professionality and efficiency. This can be achieved when the holders of judicial functions are elected by one body, noting that it is an institution in which representatives of entity justice are represented and that the Law on VSTV establishes a system of entity subcommittees for proposing candidates. According to the Law, VSTV is an independent body and has its legal personality. With regard to the role of the VSTV, in accordance with the Law on VSTV, as an independent and independent body, it is tasked to appoint the holder of judicial functions, assess the work of judges and prosecutors, conduct disciplinary procedures and continuing professional training in cooperation with centres for the education of judges and prosecutors of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska. The funding of the judiciary. The competent legislative authorities approve budgets for Bosnia and Herzegovina's courts and prosecutors, which means that Bosnia and Herzegovina's courts and prosecutors are financed from 14 different sources. The salaries and fees of judges and prosecutors are regulated by law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, entity and Brcko District. The basic salaries of judges and prosecutors depend on the level of 2,400 to 4,400 KM. In addition to basic salaries to judges and prosecutors, the addition to past work amounts to 0.5% of basic salary for each year of work. The basic monthly salary is adjusted annually by the percentage of the average monthly net salary increase in Bosnia and Herzegovina calculated for the calendar year when it exceeds 800 marks. As for applicable laws, the Court of BiH implements in its work laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, courts in the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska apply special entity procedural and material laws, and courts in the Brcko District apply the laws of the Brcko District. The courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina also apply the former SFRJ Penal Code for Criminal Crimes committed in the period prior to the entry into force of the new law of the entity, Bosnia and Herzegovina or the Brcko District, unless the new law is easier for the perpetrator. As it is mainly a matter of separate jurisdiction, there is no hierarchical relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina law and entity law, however, in some cases provisions of entity laws apply before the Court of BiH. Thus, pursuant to Article 7(2) of the BiH Court Act, the BiH Court of Justice is in charge of criminal acts established by the law of the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and Brcko District under certain circumstances. A lot has happened on the political agenda since I was a minister, which is just a culmination of problems that some people didn't want to see before or they didn't care about. When it comes to the lack of confidence in the judiciary, some refer to it in a way that calls for independence, thus creating around them a wall that has made them untouchable and irresponsible. I guarantee you that's the most painful truth. The BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office have somewhat justified their existence, but apparently failed to create an atmosphere that most in Bosnia and Herzegovina see them as a respected judicial institution that is independent and professional. I'm not ready to turn my head anymore than the problem we've all led to. Given the materials relating to the laws on courts and other bodies of the judiciary, I have come across a comprehensive analysis of the application of Article 7(2) of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which was made after... of the seminar and which, to great shame in the judicial institutions, pointed out that there are no 7 standards which were managed by the Court of Justice when taking over or delegating the case. There is not even a common denominator that could be a hint of standards or standards. All of this justifies a long-expressed concern that the current formulation of Article 7(2) puts citizens in an unequal position and certainly does not contribute to the rise of trust in our judiciary. On the other hand, it is shown that... in the past it has been used by individuals without any control or assessment of any damage caused by such action. From this aspect, it is difficult to define this provision, so that it cannot be misused, because the possibility of manipulation is always open when there is a expressed intention. This is particularly unfortunate and from the point of view of criminal law and the security of citizens, because it is difficult to precisely define the criteria based on which, under certain circumstances, in the event of compliance with certain conditions, a really unsatisfactory court may impose jurisdiction. So many future and uncertain circumstances that have to happen in this case to establish the jurisdiction of the BiH Court, and then again, it is man who appreciates whether or not these circumstances have occurred, leaving the possibility of a mistake, not to mention much worse things. This remains one of the controversial things since the judiciary is, but the European Commission has always been in a position to maintain an extended criminal responsibility, and has been left for the agreement by actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina that it will vote. According to the number of cases taken from the above analysis, it is evident that it was never needed because it is not used so frequently, and even when used for this there is no valid argument. The problem is also the prejudication of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia's rulings, as the BiH Court of Justice is making rulings on the same factual basis that it considers should be brought to The Hague by the Court of Justice. I appreciate that all the facts put forward clearly suggest that our obligation is to establish an effective legal framework for the processing of criminal offences, especially the most serious criminal offences. We want to increase the competitiveness of Bosnia and Herzegovina in international flows, we want to bring investments to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why we must first establish justice that will guarantee the fair treatment of all those who are located and operating in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. It is also necessary to take into account Bosnia and Herzegovina's desire to join the European Union as soon as possible. As regards the results of the work – outstanding cases before courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the total number of unsolved civil, criminal, administrative and executive cases in the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 337.480. This number does not include the so-called number. Communal objects. Including municipal objects, this number increases to 2,114,405 items. Obsolete in courts in 2016, courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina showed 67 criminal cases completed in 2016 because of the fact that there was an outdated prosecution after the prosecution or the execution of criminal sanctions imposed. Court of BiH 4 transfers, Brcko District 5, Federation of BiH 11, Republika Srpska 47 cases. 81 infringement cases have also been brought to an end because of the occurrence of antiquity or the conduct of criminal proceedings. Brcko District 4 cases, Federation of BiH 33, Republika Srpska 44. Unsolved cases in prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina -- in prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina were transferred from 2015 to 11.504 applications. 25,132 applications were received during 2016. During 2016, 26,312, and 10,324 outstanding applications were submitted in the current year. Prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina were transferred from 2015 to 4.119 pending investigations in 2016. It's been ordered, investigations are under way, 18,520, and 18,594 investigations have been resolved. Obsolete in the Prosecutor's Office in 2016 – 195 cases against known perpetrators have proved completed in 2016 because of the fact that there has been a staunch prosecution until the indictment has been brought. The BiH 12 Prosecutor's Office, the Brcko District Office 5, the BiH Federation's Prosecutor's Office 158 and the Prosecutor's Office in Republika Srpska 20. Criminal acts of organised crime – The BiH Prosecution Unsolved Reports for Crimes of Organized Crime. On the day 8 31.12.2016 in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the outstanding applications were 66. Of the total number of pending applications, 34 applications were received in 2016 and 12 applications in 2015, 14 applications in 2014, 4 applications in 2013 and one application in 2011 and 2012. Unsolved investigations – for the crimes of organised crime on 31.12.2016 in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, there were 41 unsolved investigations. Of the total number of pending investigations 14 cases were received in 2016, 6 in 2015, 3 in 2014, 5 in 2013, 3 in 2012 and 2011, 2 in 2010 and 2009, 2 in 2007 and 1 in 2006. The BiH Federation's prosecutors - unsolved charges for the crimes of organised crime. On 31.12.2016 in prosecutors in the Federation of BiH, outstanding applications are 7. Out of the total number of pending applications, 2 applications were received in 2016, 3 applications in 2015 and 2 applications in 2014. Unsolved investigations in prosecutors in the Federation of BiH – on 31.12.2016, there were no pending investigations. Republika Srpska's prosecutors - unsolved charges for the crimes of organised crime. On 31.12.2016 in the Serbian Prosecutor's Office, the pending reports were 4. All pending applications were received in 2016. Unsolved investigations into criminal offences of organised crime. On 31.12.2016, there were 17. The Brcko District Prosecutor's Office of Crimes organized crime. On the same day in the Brcko District Prosecutor's Office, there were no pending reports and investigations. Convicted cases. In 2014 the BiH Court ruled a total of 49 cases against 65 persons, 29 cases against 36 persons were sentenced in 2015, 12 persons were sentenced before this Court in 6 cases. In 2014 and 2015, a total of one acquittal was adopted for the offences of organised crime, in 2016 4 acquittals. Therefore, from the 113st convictions in the 2014-2016 period. 19 people have been sentenced to prison for over 3 years, 51 people under 3 years, and 32 people have been sentenced to parole. Courts in the Federation – 2 cases against 8 persons were sentenced in 2014, 2015. 2 cases against 7 persons, 7 persons were sentenced in 2016. Thus, the courts in the Federation sentenced 22 persons to prison for organised crime in 2014-2016, of which 9 persons were sentenced to prison for over 3 years and 13 persons less than 3 years in prison. The courts in Republika Srpska – 2014 were not convicted of criminal offences of organised crime, 29 persons were sentenced in 2015 in 9 cases, in 2016. 4 cases 11 persons. So in the Republika Srpska Court, 29 persons were sentenced to prison for organised crime in 2014-2016, of which 19 persons were sentenced to prison for over 3 years and 9 persons under 3 years in prison and one person was sentenced to parole. That statistics confirms that this criminal policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot produce significant results in the fight against organised crime, although the legislator strongly condemned the crimes of organised crime by expressing this position through the predicting of rather severe penalties for perpetrators of such delicacies. The courts did not use the repression that the legislator had put on their side. Corruptive crimes. Based on the collected Data from the VSTV for criminal offences on the list of corrupt crimes in bh justice are followed by data – Court of BiH 2013 sentenced 7 persons, 2014 convicted 8 persons, 1 liberating, 2015 convicted 8 persons, 2 liberating, 2016. 13 persons convicted, 4 acquittals. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The prosecution - there were 89 pending applications. 2011 - 3 applications, 2012. – 4 applications, 2013. – 3 applications, 2014. – 7 applications, 2015. – 18 applications and 2016 54 logins 22 pending investigations. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 9 Here is the time, so to conclude, the statistics mentioned as regards the criminal policy of the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina for corruption crimes says – confirms that this criminal policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot only bring significant results in the fight against corruption, but even acts stimulatingly on perpetrators of criminal offences. The courts most often reached a conditional conviction as a measure of warning, which is one of the mildest alternative sanctions in nature. The legislator strongly condemned corruption by expressing that view through the predicting of rather severe penalties for perpetrators of such delicacies. The courts, however, used the minimum repression that had put legislation on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18148	Thank you, Minister. The word has the vice-chair of the House of Representatives, Mr Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18149	Thank you. I welcome all the docks, members of the Council of Ministers, MPs, guests, people in charge of handling the judiciary. As someone who has initiated this session on behalf of the SDS Club, I want to tell you, first of all, the motives that we believe should be discussed. I do not know if there is a member of the BiH Parliament who will establish or who thinks that the situation in the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in both entities and in the Brcko District, is in good shape and that it works in the interests of society. So we have one problem that we all know together that exists and now the question is who's responsible to solve this problem. What is the role of the BiH Parliament and what is the responsibility of the BiH Parliament because we have this condition. I think that the greatest responsibility for the BiH Parliament is to pass the law in this area and that this situation in the judiciary is not a question of whether good or bad people are in the judiciary, whether they are good or bad prosecutors or judges, but that the framework in which they are given to work and function is such that it has enabled unprecedented corruption, that it has led to the fact that the system is unable to deal with what we see every day, and that it chokes our society every day and drags us by our feet. And here I can now argue that I am convinced that problem number one in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in both entities, is corruption and the judiciary that protects it, not national conflicts, not different opinions, because in the end it all comes down to interest. Corrupt politicians will very easily take the task of tightening international relations to homogenize the people and not be responsible for what they do and work to harm the citizens. We are responsible to see if we have the strength like Parliament to change the state in which it is located, certainly in the domain of this Parliament, and the system is set up so that the justice system regulator is at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning ours, in our jurisdiction. The one in charge of the judicial hygiene is the BiH High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is an institution that should monitor the situation in the judiciary and that should intervene when it is seen that things are going badly. And if things were going badly, I believe that if they had a little bit of courage, they would admit to the people in charge of the judiciary. How are you going to explain that every day we have millions or dozens of millions of affairs and thefts, and that we don't have a single case of crime that's bigger than, say, I don't know how many, like, a million marks or 10 million marks? How do you explain that prosecutors and law enforcement authorities in Republika Srpska claim that 800 or a billion, 800 million or a billion marks have been estranged from Zvornik's Electoral Factory and that no one is responsible, not even 10 people seem to have any process? How come it disappears officially 123 and unofficially much more, millions of marks from one bank, and we wait so long to start any process at all? How do you explain that crime at the Department of Direct Taxation, which is bid on two billion marks, eventually comes with a two million-mark indictment for a couple of people, even though we all know it's organized crime? What's wrong with me? In my opinion, the problem is that the judiciary here was created as a closed system that has no external control whatsoever. And in such a closed system in our mentality and in our society he is a corrupt slave. So if no one controls what happens in some segment of our society, it's easy to expect that, for a while, when he feels untouchable, he becomes in a state of conduct. I believe that the essence of things is to regulate and give powers and in a fair and good way to regulate the functioning of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, to strengthen, to find a way to choose people who will be of credibility and moral integrity and in some way put that institution in office of citizens, respectively in the function of the rule of law which, responsibly argue, does not exist now. And once again, we're closed company, we're trapped company. Here crime and corruption are being used to extract millions of converting marks, then buy votes, buy power, and criminals manage the lives of all other citizens. And that's one closed circle from which we need to find a way out. This is the chance for this Parliament to show that it has the responsibility and that it has the strength to take responsibility for the changes that should bring something better to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This isn't about the report that the minister just filed, the report is like a report, and I'm not happy with the report, it's about what we're going to conclude on this agenda point, whether we can make decisions that will mean starting the judicial reform process and restoring citizens' trust in the judicial system and the rule of law. And I have to warn you, if we fail today, if we don't find a minimum consensus on the changes we need to make, we probably won't have a second chance for a long time. This is a point that, regardless of whether we're a position or an opposition, we have room for a deal. All claim, whoever I spoke to from the parliamentarians, that there is a need to make a transformation and separate the high court from the high prosecutor's council, all claim that lawyers and prosecutors can't choose judges and that lawyers and judges can't choose prosecutors. And that's true, it's a classic conflict of interest. There are things we can arrange. I call on you, so without bile, without cheap political points to try to make an effort to reach a common position and to give the Council of Ministers an order in the end to prepare a new law in accordance with the guidelines of this Parliament that will mean the new start of the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18150	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Denis Bećirović, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18151	The Honorable Chairman. I have already said in determining the agenda that I believe that this item of the agenda and this special session should have been prepared in a much more serious and quality way than it is today. However, as the session has already begun, logically at the beginning of a special session to ask a few questions, and these questions are, as MPs here who are today discussing 11 we need to know what the expected effects of this debate and these sessions are. We must assume it will result in this session today. According to what we heard in the opening statement from the minister, at the beginning of this session, I would like to say that I do, and I believe that this will be confirmed at the end of this session, that this will be a useless talk room today. Why am I saying that? I can't believe the minister said in his opening statement some findings he'd already presented. Among other things, he said here in his address to Parliament that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, I quote, had somewhat justified their existence. The translation of the Court and the Prosecution, therefore, did not justify their existence. Given the responsibilities of the Justice Ministry and the Minister, I ask the question – who is the minister to give that kind of assessment? Is that the Ministry, Minister and Council of Ministers, did they justify their work in this term? When you say it's somewhat, therefore, it means that most of them have not justified their existence. We've known very well whose views these have been for years. I am only interested in this finding, and this should be made public here today, I expect that from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić – is this the individual position of the Minister or is this the established position of the Council of Ministers of BiH? In any case, there are huge differences, at least we from the opposition to the SDP and those who say it in such a way. According to this information and what we are familiar with, this information, which is today the basis for the debate, was adopted unanimously by the Council of Ministers of BiH. This is particularly apostrophe given that in this Information there are very dangerous and incorrect assessments that are absolutely unacceptable. So I don't understand how this could have gone unanimously on the BiH Council of Ministers. See, this infomacija states that the Constitution does not contain provisions relating to the regular judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the judiciary, other than provisions relating to the BiH Constitutional Court. There's no explanation after that. If this is the information that has been accepted by the Council of Ministers with this finding and if, even if, evenly, it were passed here in Parliament, then the conclusion is that these are some anti-constitutional bodies. Well, that's just not true. The Constitution of Bosnia is that you also read the Law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office when it was adopted, it is clear what is the constitutional basis for the formation of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, but this is not listed here at all. This part seems to have been written by Milorad Dodik, not by the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers. Well, it can't come here to the MPs' benches. Look at the conclusions that we have here in the form of recommendations offered, so that's less than half the page, and the conclusions are all types of continue activities, define proposals, make greater efforts. So I'm sorry, to continue your activities, to define the proposals and make more efforts, so today you didn't need a special session at all. So this information needs to be rejected, and clearly, I repeat, and at the end of the session we'll see it, I believe this today will be, I repeat, a useless story room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18152	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18153	I thank the chairman. Just a brief review of what counterpart Bećirević, uh, was saying. I think that you were at the Constitutional Commission session as a proposing of another act when you heard that I was just talking about these things, about this anti-constitutional, anti-constitutional terminology, etc., and this information did not get a positive opinion of the Constitutional Commission. It's just a shame that Rules of Procedure 12 is so well-conceived, and I think it's a mistake to correct it, that when it comes to information, the negative opinion of the committee in charge is not binding on the House, and then the Dom conducts a debate on the information itself, although it should be treated the same way as when the committee in charge gives a negative opinion on the bill, then it should be discussed that negative opinion. In any case, what we should have done here is return this information to the Ministry of Justice to do so. I was thinking whether to report for non-compliance with the agenda by ministers, since the agenda clearly infomacija on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a special focus on the fight against organised crime and corruption, which is absolutely not touched in this Information. And what bothers me is that by now, from Mr. Bosić's exposure, I see that this information, as it is, will be used as an attack on the VSTV which is an organ that really counts with all those phenomena that, negative phenomena that we see in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it's interesting that there's nothing in the Information that we have a suspended chief prosecutor for extremely serious incriminations, that we have extremely serious incriminations regarding the theft of money from several cases in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that the VSTV showed not only but also the ability to deal with these things. [[Employee is warned on time]] And I hope that the debate will go in the direction of this as the Ministry of Justice prepared this information, that it will be sought to complete these topics in this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18154	Thank you very much. So, correcting the wrong quote, deputy chairman, Mr. Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18155	Mr Bećirović, I must say that I am surprised that there is no need to talk in this House about the state of justice. So, my remarks also to the Council of Ministers that he does not have an initiative in this field, but to know that, ultimately, Parliament is guilty because Parliament has passed the law and the legal framework in which this judiciary is located, which has enabled this state in which we are now. If someone doesn't want to talk about it, I think he supports this condition and that the situation is good. Mr Arnaut, the chief and responsible justice supervisor, is the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, i.e. through the appointment of judges, prosecutors and through their, monitoring of their work, or disciplinary processes. They're the only mechanism that can gently prevent what's happening right now, and what's happening now is the inability of the judicial system to deal with the phenomena that we all see and we all know. So we have a system that is incapable of fighting organized crime and links between politics and crime that bring this society to the bottom. The story of excises, the other day we had it, is also about this story. So if you have a system that's swallowed up 8 billion marks, and you don't know where the money ended up, and nobody's counting on it, and you're asking people to throw their pockets into that holed-up barrel of money again, so there's no solution for people. This is a story about every segment of life, This is the main story in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I repeat. [[requirer is warned on time]] If the BiH Parliament shows impotence in this matter, i.e. that there is no power to do anything, then at least until the end of this term, but I think for a very long time, the matter is lost and the citizens can't expect in any segment, any progress. [[requirer is warned on time]] 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18156	Please respect your time. Your Honor, Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go. College members, when they report, have the right to go to the pay phone immediately. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18157	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected Council of Ministers Chairman, distinguished ministers and deputies, respected guests from judicial institutions, all present, respected media, I warmly welcome you all. I reported that, in some ways, I would refer to the wrong allegations of the respected Mr Bećirović, including colleagues from Damir Arnaut. That's what I did at the last session of the Constitutional Legal Commission where we discussed this information. I'm not going to talk about it, everyone has the right to look at this information, how, in which way it was made and express their own position, and it is, of course, political first of all. Here when I am talking about what I'm about to refer to, that we MPs, of course, don't need to know anything about the judiciary, we don't need to know about the Constitution or the law, but at least when we're talking about the protection of the Constitution and we're talking about it in this sense right now that, in some way, this infomacija when it comes to justice talks about some anti-constitutional elements is not true, because what it says in this Information is really true and all the people who know the definition, or what the law is, know that the Constitution of BiH doesn't speak a word about regular courts, so it doesn't talk about the judiciary any words, but it doesn't mean that it't mean that it's an unconstitutional category, because they know well that regular courts are established by law here, as in this case the BiH Court of Justice. So, our BiH Constitution only speaks of the BiH Constitutional Court as a sui generis, because it is not a regular court, it is a corrective legislative and executive, and ultimately judicial authorities. So let's not at least steer this debate in the wrong direction, uh, especially if we want good conclusions, if we want independently, impartially, [[expensive warning on time]] effective and effective judiciary, rule of law and the rule of law. [[expensive warning on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18158	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18159	There were more, especially related to counterpart Bećirović who had absolutely not said that there was no need to talk, he said we should talk, but that we should therefore have a quality basis which this Information from the Council of Ministers certainly did not. This is what any journalist who sits behind us would do better to create an introductory document that we could discuss. The judiciary is a prerequisite for starting things off a dead end in this country, but it's not correct, and that's what we have to say today, to connect the court and the prosecution, it's only with us when the court and the prosecution say, the prosecution comes to the court and plays the third pillar of power. So the prosecution is the state's tool, and the court is the third pillar of power, and we need to separate that. We go wherever we go, we go, they ask us, we Parliamentarians -- what you don't arrest, what you don't process, we explain to people, we don't do it, we have people whose job it is, so, he says, we see you on TV. Then when we ask you whose job it is, why don't they do it, then they say it's an attack on independence. What independence, what independence? So these people don't hide anymore when they're sitting with politicians, they used to hide, somewhere a little more secure, now they're sitting in 14 gardens in the middle of town talking about independence. The problem is when anyone, here's what Minister Mektić's been doing lately, when he talks about it, then Mektić is the prosecutor's and court's problem. As far as I'm concerned, let them deny him work, arrest him if they have any reason to arrest him, but they don't, and they know that man is right about everything he says. And since there's obviously a debate coming through the replicas here, this session will go in an unwanted direction, I just want to say one thing. I want a Falkone to happen in this country that doesn't have to end up like Falkone, but that will show that there is What those of you who do this job today don't have and that we all help him deal with criminals together, like that. [[Employee is warned on time]] In sweatpants, and what suits and ties wear. [[Employee is warned on time]] And in the end, to show that we're not all the same and that we're not all part perceptions that are unfortunately negative both about politicians and those we're talking about today. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18160	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18161	I thank you, Your Honor, for the chairmanship. I agree with my esteemed colleague Magazinović. And, unfortunately, when we ask to clear up between us, and that can clear the judiciary, between corrupt politicians and unsuspecting politicians, then the judiciary says it's a pressure on the judiciary. I wouldn't agree with the assessment that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is doing a good job. Well, please, in this country, we have the biggest possible affair, the biggest possible crime that destroys the breadth of the house and the economic survival of one area, it's about "Alumina“, which has cooked up the justice system. A billion marks presented, Republika Srpska's Criminal Police Administration submitted a report on the crime committed. For four years, the D.A.'s office is doing nothing, and we don't have a charge because the D.A. didn't do its job. There, a controversial businessman, who can say a lot of things, buys claims that the District Commercial Court in Bijeljina says they are unfounded, and then the County Commercial Court in Bijeljina prohibits this famous Pavgord from introducing instead of Ukio grupa, and then the County Commercial Court in Banja Luka brings a temporary measure prohibiting Pavgord from charging measures, and then the Court of Justice in Zvornik blocks "Alumina“, brings them to bankruptcy. And criminal charges are filed, a complaint is filed to the disciplinary prosecutor as early as April, and instead of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council responding urgently, because beware, it is a business entity without which there is no life in Birch and Podrinj, we have no reaction. Maybe that woman's right, but then they need to match those from the district economic courts of Bijeljin and Banja Luka. I'm afraid the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is responsible for the destroyed economy in Birch. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18162	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you not to use the replicas for discussion. Replica is the correcting of the wrong quote, say which is the blame in the discussion and refer to it. Please help me to work effectively today and successfully bring this session to an end. Mr. Honorable Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18163	The Honorable Chairman. So, I've come forward to correct the wrong allegations, and I'm going to be very specific about correcting them. So, if you were listening to what I was talking about at the beginning of the session, then it's clear that none of us at the SDP Club would mind that we are serious, well-founded and factually talking about the judiciary, but not in this way how it started today. And it started with empty material, it started with material that has certain unconstitutional findings and recommendations that do not solve the problems that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have. When you said you were surprised, I must tell you that I am even more surprised that you have managed to hold a special session in this mandate for the second time on the subject that you have proposed, and that this has not gone hand in hand in this term. We're looking for a debate on BHRT, and I don't think there's any more urgent questions at this point, not even the Bosnian language, and I'm not saying any more. When my colleague Krišto spoke about this section concerning the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, my findings were, and I repeat, the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office were formed on the basis of the provisions of the BiH Constitution. That's not what this information says. If it says anything, I'm going to ask you to find out where it says it, and since it doesn't say it, it has a whole other connotation. And finally, I was talking about the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, as the minister said, not knowing whether it had its own or on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers, he said that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office did not primarily justify their existence. I think they've justified their existence, but of course there's room to fix it, and I want to make it very clear that it's a little bit absurd and degutant that the executive authority that's much worse than the judicial authority, that it's speaking today and giving lessons to the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18164	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, chairman, counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18165	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests. This is not a special session, this is a regular 47th session with only one agenda point according to the College's decision and according to the decision of the Expansive College and this House. So that's the first thing, because I think we should make that clear, here trying to impute something that doesn't stand at all and kind of address things to me for responsibility. Mr. Bosić was chairman of the House in the last cycle and scheduled a special session based on the mandate he has under the Rules of Procedure, which I disagree with, and this is a session that is regular, with which I agree and I think we should discuss this issue in the BiH Parliament. So much for sitting down, we don't have to go further. And for all the initiatives you're talking about, Mr. Bećirović, when it comes to Bosnian language, BHRT, you know that I'm into it and that there's nothing controversial about it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18166	Thank you, colleague Džaferović. 16 Damir Arnaut, you have the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18167	Thank you. Rule 167 (1) Rules of Procedure - MPs may ordinarily ask questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, or to an individual member of the Council of Ministers at the beginning of each first session of the House in the month, before the debate on the agenda. If it is true for his colleague Džaferović that this is the first, that this is a regular session, then it is also true that this is the first regular session in this month, in June, and then Article 167 position (1) of the Rules of Procedure that allows us to ask oral questions to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its members. So, either this really isn't a regular session, which we all know, this is a thematic session that you in the College decided to call regular, a colleague Bećirović is absolutely right, or another option, that you violated the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to be aware of my objection to violation. Article 167(1) of the Rules of Procedure as you have now admitted that this is a regular session. [[Employee is warned on time]] Then why did you not allow us, in accordance with the law that the Rules of Procedure allowed us to ask oral questions to the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18168	Oh, I think I've talked enough on this subject. So we have a session after this one where immediately this thing that Mr. Arnaut is talking about, asking questions, so there's no need to explain anything further. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18169	So, interesting are these procedural business discussions and I think there's room for what Damir Arnaut was talking about, especially when we refer to some principles and some, what's called, justice and some, uh, proper business work. So I have two, two replicas, or two corrections to the wrong quote. To all those who are saying that there is no responsibility of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I mean it offends us here that we sit. So, and I'm going to talk about these things specifically, where I think, what to do and how much, how much responsibility is actually at the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and I don't think we're here today, we didn't call this session to attack anyone and specifically defend them, but to open an honest discussion. I want to agree with the biggest part of my colleague Bosić's discussion and some other colleagues who spoke after him, to open a fair discussion of what hurts us all. I think it is our right and our responsibility that we are sitting here in this House. And the other replica is so indicatively applied to the minister, who says that so far has mostly been done without control, that the cases, that there were no standards that the court had conducted in the delegation and taking over of the case, and that it was not, in fact, done without control. So, I don't agree with the Minister that it was done without control. It's probably without some system control done, but that someone's control and their hand, some nepotism, some political ties, some judges, prosecutors, people sitting there, who are actually the most directly connected to senior political officials, some sitting here in these halls, some out of these halls, that this is the problem that has burdened this country and that doesn't actually make this country move forward, that's the fact. So if it didn't exist, there was no control system inside, it's unfortunately this secret arm that controls these processes, and we all suffer for it here in this country. These people sitting here in 17 have a responsibility for that condition, and they don't have a mechanism to fix it. That's why I support every discussion that goes in the direction that this is extremely honest and that if we can't conclude quality things today, we can do this discussion and continue it until we have concrete solutions. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18170	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18171	What I was about to say was said by fellow Arnaut. And I suggest to you now, given that if this is the first, there are no parliamentary questions on the next one. It's the second session this month. No, no, no dilemma, that's right, that's the Rules of Procedure that we have and I suggest you stop this session, go back to the beginning, introduce regular parliamentary questions, answer parliamentary questions, continue the agenda, because that's what we MPs have the right to do. Don't deny us that right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18172	Thank you very much. The word has respected representative Saša Magazinović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18173	I said what I had to say through this replica. I just want two more things to add. When recently, it seems to me, the head of VSTV said it was the best part of society, or whatever, in some comment, I was asked to comment and then I said that I didn't understand why it was, say, not teachers, why teachers aren't the best part of this society, why aren't miners, why aren't they cops, how are people in the justice system the best part of this society? I actually think the D.A.'s office, and the Court needs to deal with themselves, but on a professional basis, and it clearly shows that they're not all the same there, that you have very decent people who want to do their job and that you have those who aren't exactly like that. As in politics, as in any other profession. It bothers me that instead of having legal function holders appearing in public representing the results of their work, it turned into one, a competition of selebritius. Who will be more in the media about everything, just not the results of their work. And I think it's wrong, I mean people, everyone chooses their own way, but I think it ends badly. Here, if we talk about the prosecution and the example that many instructions are about leaders who have failed to complete their mandate, we see that there is a lot of it. So, constant mutual accusations, mounting, I mean, and trying to get us all into this story, that we're dealing with the attorney general, who he is, what he is, whether or not he's involved with this, and that's, that's, that's happening periodically. It really burdens what should be a commitment, let's say, if we talk about the D.A., to do their job. The relationship between politics and justice exists. I'd like a man from the judiciary to come out and tell you all about it. It is known that there are prosecutors who are close to persons a, b, c, d, it doesn't matter from which political parties, it has become a public secret. I just said, it used to happen in places that aren't very public, now they're sitting in gardens in the middle of town because it's become normal. And it's not questionable to sit, it's just that it has its epilogue in later events that we all follow through the media. I think there's a number of people, first of all between us, in politics, which are meant to keep this from working. I think there are 18 people among us in politics, not many of them, but they are very powerful, which is the goal of us never entering the European Union, because the closer we are to the European Union, they are closer to prison, and people are aimed at not going to jail. And they automatically aim to keep this country from entering the European Union or at least not to become a regulated country. There are a lot of people in this country, I won't owe it, I just want to say one more thing, that is, I live for a day when a brave man in a court will happen, we'll stand behind him, I'll be the first to stand behind him, I'll be the first to stop a huge number of people who don't have nuts in their pocket, there's nothing to be afraid of, to deal with criminals, both in suits and ties, and there's no difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18174	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order for us, the Members' Club considers that the 67th member of this Rules of Procedure has been injured and for this reason, not to elaborate further, I request a 15-minute break and suggest that the College declares a special session and that we continue to work. I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18176	As far as that goes, you don't have to ask for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18177	I'm looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18178	You'll get a break, then. We are now in the realization of the agenda. You could have put all your objections before you started at the Expansive College. Help us finish this, so this is my answer and there will be no other answers. And I now, if you continue to insist on a break, continue a 15-minute break and let it go to the burden of those who interrupt our work. Thank you very much. I'd like the services to inform the MPs, the break time is up, and we'll continue as soon as the quorum conditions are met. The arrival of Members in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18181	Mr. Chairman. The SDP Club believes that his intervention was correct, that you were wrong, that you violated the Rules of Procedure and I have a stenogram from the previous session where you said, paraphrase – so I am finishing the session we continue two sessions 14, the first thematic second is regular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18182	Thank you, Mr. Mešić. If I didn't continue to lead the controversy with you now, thank you very much, we won't be leading the controversy any further. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18183	I thank you, Your Honor, for the chairmanship. First of all, I have to express my regret and disappointment, because today I do not see any MPs from the SNSD Club who, 10 years ago, expressed their dissatisfaction with the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, so that there would be no referendum in the structural dialogue which, in 10 years' time, did not produce any result, so they issued a referendum on the BiH Prosecutor's Office that kept in the drawer "The Official Messenger". Today they had a chance to do something concrete together and try to change. ... actually says that in the first colleague Magazinović when he says that there are also those who do not want to be a judicial system and that in this country general order is introduced, and those who did not come are certainly part of it. If someone on the side of this information that we have today read, you'd think we live in Switzerland, that we have no problem with organized crime or corruption. But since we know what the condition is then this tells us that we have a system in regression. Statistics are devastating, what we have read, a negligible number of processed cases of organised crime and corruption, a dominant number, a 76% probation for, what we call, criminal acts of corruption and a high percentage of acquittals. The state says we have an urgent need to react systemically if we want to deal with what is the greatest social monster, which is organized crime and corruption. Not to repeat now the statistics repeated and respected minister, let's say in 2014 there was no verdict on organised crime in Republika Srpska, it's devastating. Out of total, even 76% of the convictions for what are called corrupt crimes are conditional, so go home and be a good year, two, and don't repeat it. 69% is below the legal minimum and only 19%, 21% above the prescribed minimum. And this criminal policy obviously seems stimulating, very stimulating, and you have to ask yourself what it is like. These, if we ask the prosecutions, they'll probably blame the courts for a mild criminal policy, not to apply all those tools and what the law allows them to do, if we ask the judges, they'll probably say they're getting bad, bad charges, that they don't get high-quality charges. Well, please, just look at the prosecution gaps in the "Gibraltar" case, terrible. What are the causes of this condition? I believe that even in the judicial system is 90% honest, honest, honest people, unfortunately there are others. Are the best of us sitting on top of these institutions? I think we all know the answer here. The second reason, prosecutors generally do not bring in on the basis of state strategies for their internal policy on the processing of organised crime and 20 corruption, there are no plans for investigations in areas that are presumed to be the focus of this type of crime, there is no system of responsibility. You can be a prosecutor until you're 70, do or do nothing, you're not answering anyone. And that is why we believe that here the system of responsibility with individuals, judges and prosecutors, the evaluation of their work, should be transferred to the institutions, so that the President of the Court is responsible for the work of his institution, complete and given the tools, that the real organisation of work and that we say the court has not met the criteria, not individual judges and prosecutors, but generally to evaluate institutions. So is the prosecution. So we have to change the way we evaluate, we have to evaluate institutions and we have to balance. You know, very often says politics put pressure, I believe there's pressure, I really believe there's pressure where they have nuts in their pockets, where they're the subject of processing, that they're trying to buy their freedom. But as a pressure on the judiciary, it certainly cannot be interpreted as asking for serious crimes to be prosecuted, the judiciary to deal with major affairs in this country. So don't, please, answer those who steal eggs under the hen, but those who steal tens and hundreds of millions get away very often with either acquittal or never come before judicial institutions. So, I think it's our responsibility here, too. It's our responsibility if we're really honest, and we're all here talking about wanting the rule of law, the rule of law, that criminals be behind bars, that we help that be the case. If we have already seen system errors, we should work together to make sure that these system errors are corrected. We must have a balance between three pillars of power. We have to, let's say, in the United States, the chief prosecutors are mostly elected in the election. You know who's proposing them? Political parties. There's one part of the state where they're elected in Congress and one part where the governors have them. In a good part of the European countries, the main prosecutors are elected in parliament, so let the policy bear responsibility for the work of the chief prosecutor, which is controversial. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, I would like to invite my colleagues, we have excellent research here in our Research Sector in Parliament, on the organisation of high court and high prosecutorial councils in countries, not only in countries of the region, but in all Europe, they are separated and shared with them that at least half of the members in one and the other council are elected by their colleagues, the other half being elected in parliaments. Somewhere there are, for instance, people, such as the minister of justice, the president of their Supreme Courts, etc., in Croatia you have even representatives, MPs, parliamentary representatives from ruling and opposition parties. So we have to have some balance between those three pillars of power and each other's control. So our club prepared today, and when I mentioned to the United States, I had the opportunity to meet the chief prosecutor of South Carolina, who is their youngest chief prosecutor, and he told me that he had to report and publicly show every gift he received, means publicly on the website to publish it and every hotel account that he or her husband pays it is public and submits an annual financial report not within the institution, but to the public on their website. And with us, the property is hidden. I think we should also settle the issue of property records by judges and prosecutors and by law. So today we have also proposed a set of seven conclusions, which, of course, are not sacred letters and are not fixed marks, we appreciate the suggestions of all our colleagues. The aim of these conclusions is to separate the High Court and High Prosecutorial Council, to ask the Ministry of Justice to propose such legal solutions to us, to strengthen the criteria of the people sitting in these councils, because today, without some, we need to be honest, without any special professional credibility to come and sit down at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to make the choice of judges and prosecutors public, so let it be known that we also publicly publish their biographies, to legally oblige the prosecutors to make annual plans for the processing of organised crime and corruption. Just what I was saying, to introduce the Institute of Legal Assessments of Institutions, not individuals, but entire institutions. And in the end, our suggestion is that we should choose the chief prosecutor in this House as well. Of course, through the conclusions of 21 we owe the Ministry of Justice that they make appropriate amendments and supplement the law or propose new laws. And I call on all my colleagues to really, this is our last chance and for our society as a whole, millions and billions of this country go, go, go, go because we don't have an effective system of fighting crime and corruption, and it's our responsibility to try to change something today and finally in this country everyone can start living normally, and criminals are where they belong, behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18184	Thanks for the discussion. The technique to take care of a little bit, you started measuring twice the time and the one of 10 and the one of 5 minutes, take the bill, uh, about the time. Now the word has a respected representative, Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18185	I have to agree with some of my colleagues who say that the information we received is none, as well as what we have from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because we refused their report for two years, to remind, but fortunately there are alternative sources on which we can conduct certain discussions. What worries me about being seen here in Parliament is that it is obvious that some people respond to this state and that they do not want to admit that politicians are the ones who are generators of corruption and crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that simply the VSTV, the prosecution, are the judiciary only extended hands of these politicians and these institutions and about politics, and therefore we have the situation that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll refer to some other reports that say e.g. that in 2015 and 2016 the worst years are in the case of the number of work reports for corruption crimes in the last five years. Also, investigated for criminal offences, decline in 2016 compared to 2015. Next, a drastic downsizing of corruption crimes charges in the BiH Prosecutor's Office by more than 50%, from 16 indictments in 2015 to only 7 indictments in 2016. So we don't have to talk numbers about what it is, who did what. Then again, in 2015, a total of 304 judicial convictions for corruption crimes, including 304 – 200 suspension solutions, 13 liberating and 89 convictions. Of these 89 convictions, the maximum number is conditional penalties. Not to go further with these figures, another analysis, which has also been done, is a list of convicted legislators, executive authorities and public authorities with the names of institutions and criminal names from 2011 to 2017. So, six years from now, you've been convicted of 39 political officials or about 39 politics for six years, and you know what kind of country we're living in and what we're all witnessing, and what we see. This is the question – who are these people who lead these things, who are the people who make those judgments? Because when you take an analysis, for example, here's the prosecution, the Republika Srpska Special Prosecutor's Office, you have 8 convictions of which most of them are convicted by being jailed for a few months. The BiH prosecutor's office has 3 convictions, which means all conditions. Bihac has a certain number, 7 convictions that are there, but also a conditional month, parole 8 months, parole 4 months, parole 4 months. These are the verdicts that our courts are giving, and these are the cases that our prosecutors are conducting. Then the logical question that is being asked – who are the people and what are the names of the people in the prosecution, in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and how do people come to positions in the VSTV? Mr. Bosić, on the other hand, I also consider you responsible for one part of this appointment. The ladies at the VSTV in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which came from 22 colleges without a day of work and in the prosecutor's office and in the judiciary, which is now a member of the VSTV. We have a situation, don't take it personally, that people from the primary courts are coming to the post of VSTV president, VSTV deputy president, we have the situation that against the current VSTV president, an acidification of criminal charges for four years since 2013 in the BiH Prosecutor's Office for some of the actions that the Constitutional Court has also declared illegal, concerning the confiscation of property in Banja Luka Bosniaks on the basis of rulings from the Republic of Serbia which have not been carried out through the judicial authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have a situation where out of 60 prosecutors are named prosecutors, e.g. A prosecutor whose husband has been on the run before the authorities of the prosecution of Bosnia and Herzegovina for five years. So these are the people who are named in the DA's office. You have a situation not to determine detention for people who have committed millions of crimes, they also come from a political mile because, as they have Serbian citizenship, they are given the opportunity to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina and then, through legal assistance, try to do something about it, which is also impossible. These are all heavy charges definitely, but which can be backed up. Also to refer to this part, it is clear to me that Mr Arnaut defends the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office, so I also come up with one part of the conclusions in which I ask the Council of Ministers to change the legislation and to bring that and bring the holders of judicial functions into the Institute of Conflict of Interests. Because it's not normal for legal holders to name their husbands, their sons, their daughters, political parties as directors of public enterprises, name as advisors in ministries, and not to talk any further. I also have to share this part because, and with citizens who have chosen me and with everyone, let's get these papers two days ago and I'll read about how to hire in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina, two officials, one official, mostly officials from this ruling grand Bosniak coalition agreeing on employment in the judiciary, where it says in one message, I know, and now it's about Judge Vesna Merdanović's daughter, meaning she's coming to office in the judiciary -- I know that you're in Brussels but that I'll let you know that Lejla was on that test on Friday, and now she's got an oral call for an interview for tomorrow, upstairs, you know, so only that you're on call if someone calls you. So one of the messages. Next message - brother, half an hour ago written notice that Lejla was received, only that you have information and thank you very much, perhaps a short time to contact the person to see that you are in full contact, this is a great moment for our family. It is clear to me that this is a great moment for them and for the way they are employed in judicial institutions. And now I'm waiting for someone to tell the MPs here that the VSTV is doing its job, that the prosecution is doing its job and that the BiH Court is doing its job. Seven convictions for acts of corruption, seven BiH Prosecution. For all of this, in the conclusions I am asking the BiH Prosecutor's Office to provide us with information stating the name and last name of all the prosecutors, and for each one at the annual level since being admitted to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we also have prosecutors who have never filed a single indictment during their working life, which is an amazing thing, the number of convictions, the number of acquittals, and the number of cases that have been dropped to a lower level. This is also especially true because of war crimes cases, where we have a situation that is in the information of the BiH Prosecutor's Office especially since the arrival of the new V.D. The prosecutor's large number of war crimes cases are being transferred to lower courts, which is listed in statistics, apparently that these in the prosecution have become very good statisticians, is listed as a resolved case, meaning lower, lower. And in that strategy that we're working on, let me remind you, of the items where you have five and fewer fatalities. It's a huge number of objects that have been passed over in recent years for which there's no resolution whatsoever. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly also states that the BiH Prosecutor's Office will provide information in which cases jurisdiction has been given, given jurisdiction to Sections II and III, is ordered not to conduct an investigation, as well as whose investigation has been suspended. [[Employee is warned on time]] The information should cover the period from 2011 to 2017, Because there are a huge number of 23 cases that are very important for politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina [[Employee is warned on time]] in which an investigation has been suspended and no investigation has been ordered all because of ties between prosecutors and judges with politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18186	Thank you for your discussion. I ask that the technique sees once again what happens to time measurement. The word has a respected representative, deputy chairman Mladen Bosić, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18187	Mr. Bećirović, I know you're in the fashion of criticism of everything, but I have to correct this false allegation. So you called a member of the High Court and Prosecution Council elected by this Parliament and that there is no day of employment. So this Parliament has chosen, listen to me, this Parliament has chosen one representative who should be a Srbin, and be a woman and not be from the judicial system, it has been a task what this Parliament should give in the council, in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. We have proposed a young person who teaches at the university, at the university, at the Faculty of Law at the University of Banja Luka, and we are behind the proposal, but that is, that is, that part of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that requires such a person under the current law. So there's no reason for you to, I think you got the address wrong about it. And yet to conclude, we're in favour of choosing these councils differently, the prosecution, and not according to this current model, that most of them be prosecutors in a prosecutor's office without judges and that the majority of judges in a court without prosecutors and without lawyers, means no conflict of interest, and let the ministry figure out how we're going to suggest that we get to a better way so that they can be more independent and that we can control the independent work of the court. And, well, that's about what I wanted.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18188	That's it then. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18189	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. These things have been discussed for a very long time in this House, so in 2008 the BPS MP Sefer Halilović said a sentence that I will repeat and, of course, continue the discussion. Voted Serbian politician Nikola Pašić said when he began to arrest members of his party, and he was prime minister, said the minister -- you know what it is, we passed these laws not to arrest us, but to arrest the opposition. And immediately they stopped arresting his party and, of course, turned to the opposition. That's how it works to me what's going on in our judiciary, it's not the one who did it, it's the one who heard him do it, not the word, and it's the release of gas from the body, so it's not the one who did it, it's the one who heard it. It's very complicated what we're talking about, and it's undivided, and I agree with you, I agree with the Vice-President that we need to get into judicial reform. The need to reform the judiciary for a number of reasons, one thing is that such a system of justice is unpartially under the full control of political oligarchy or of the one who is in power, and all that is done is actually done by the directive or by what the government approves. Tens of such examples is, dozens, I'm going to go on a few concrete examples to see what's actually going on here 24. We're going to start with what's called crime and corruption, and we're talking about certain cases, and I'm going to bring up a direct case now. Dear Tegelti, you were here last time you gave your report, and I mentioned this example publicly for this speaker, and so far no one has responded, an e-mail official with my full name and last name, and I sent an e-mail to a criminal report and stated exactly what it was about, undividedly, about alienation and exporting from Bosnia tens of millions of marks and destroying the company, shutting down and staying out of the job of a large number of people. It's the Hidria Linden firm. All the assets were sold here and transferred to Slovenia, the company was shut down and the workers fired, formally formed a company with one employee who was formally transferred to the property, which was called the Island. The island sold the property to XY and transferred the money, and Hidrija went out. No Niko did, I referred to the state's prosecutor's office, the federal prosecutor's office, the cantonal prosecutor's office, the BiH Court of Justice, the Federation's Court of Justice -- the Supreme Court, the Canton of Sarajevo, the Financial Police, the Tax Administration, no one answered. You wrote that down last time I was saying this. Since it's so responding in the next one of the Federal TV shows, all these documents will be published, because the prosecution doesn't respond, as one example, and I know why it doesn't react, and who it's connected with, and how it's done, and it's all being addressed to you and that's why it doesn't react. I asked what's going on here with cases of alienation of Bosnian Herzegovina's property, what about the Tush case, tell me what's going on with it? Tell me, what happens to the transfer of jurisdiction when it comes to political murders, murder of journalists? The case in the state, so the state transferred it to the canton, so the canton's been acidifying it for years, so now the canton's returning it to the state, and so we're spinning, if I have to name it, in one case I was a witness, the murder of Joza Leotar. That blue Polo is me in front, I'm Zaim Backović. And that judge who led it then was promoted to the greatest defender of justice, the greatest, all cases he lost. Look, all those big cases he's been running, that judge, all his convictions fell to the Supreme Court. I'm talking about Joza Leotar, who I saw with my own eyes, he was out there, my kid's ear was cut, no one paid attention to the man who ran off with the bag of documents and he was never invited, but he was tried by a driver who was all in blood, all bloody. The Halilović family, and so on, I can count it all you want now and you're going to tell me there's no politics here. Politics is involved up to their necks, up to their necks. War crime, what's going on? Is the Prosecutor's Office and the Court working on what is the fact or under the pressure of the association, organizations and politics, and selecting cases, selecting cases? Every crime is a crime, there's no selection, there's no selection, or maybe you're waiting for people to die out so we don't have anyone to chase and chase. The privatisation crime that is incredible in this country follows the issue of the Federation government soon, soon, to complete the total collection of data. According to our privatisation contracts, we don't have any unemployed in this country, there's no unemployed, you know that. I'll invest 30 million, hire 125 people, no 125 people, no 30 million invested, no more companies, and so on. And when you add that up by contracts alone, there are no more unemployed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that's why you have tycoons, the rulers of this country, people who are directly connected to the ruling structures, and their finances. Should I give examples here? Here they speak to you from "Alumina." Ššta about the other giants in Banja Luka? What about the wire factory in Sarajevo today? The data I received from the merchant, an old iron dealer, was more paid for by equipment, machines, pipes, devils, like old iron, than this one in the privatisation gave to buy a wire factory, he didn't hire one because he shut down his former old firm and continued the same business trade and transferred all these people to "The Wire", and it's no longer "Unipromet" but "The Wire", the same people. And the Agency admits it as an investment, and so on, and I filed that application, not just there. I said at the pay phone that I was offered 500 thousand marks in cash to raise my hand for something, watch the pay phone, no one ever invited me. You know what the weight of that publicly spoken word means that no one has ever called me. Tell me how that's 25 possible. If I lied and said that about a pay phone, I should go to jail. The one who offered me that is now in prison, but not because of that, but because of a whole other thing. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'll završić it, sir. [[Employee is warned on time]] Reform is needed, the judiciary must be something that is in the role of citizens not in the function of politics. And just two more little examples A verdict that returns stolen goods to a thief, not owners, but thieves, to a thief, is thus judged by your judges. [[The ambassador was warned on time]] And secondly, for 10 years, there was a process against people, It has been proven not to be guilty, now that they're suing the state, for eight years the state won't make a verdict against itself for the eighth year. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18190	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18191	18 years are people...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18192	Thank you very much, Mr. Backović. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18193	without a right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18195	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18196	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18197	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I would like first of all to welcome you all together. Well, for a change, around this topic I can agree to a certain extent with my colleague Bećirević. I don't mean in the front row on the material we got for this session, but perhaps in the preparation of this session itself. It bothers me, and I don't think it's a good thing that this session is in the shadow of the second session. And it seems to me, it's a good thing at this session that we have a partial, segmented access to justice for a part of the judicial process. In addition, this is evident from the fact that the least recent discussions have been on the subject of a specific review, should have been held today’s sessions. But what is good for me is that we have here rarely a good representation of judicial officials today in Parliament, which is not a common case. I will use it to discuss another judicial issue, namely the judicial practice of processing war crimes, an extremely sensitive subject, in which unless there is consistency and principle, it destroys the vulnerable tissue of the Bosnian Herzegovina society. 26 What do I want to say here? Namely, you know the 2013 European Court of Justice ruling in Strasbourg, Maktouf and Damjanović and the legal consequences and repercussions and judgments on our judiciary, especially on the work of the BiH Court of Justice in war crimes cases. Coli Lovrinović has raised a few questions in his own time on the subject, and from the answer to that question, we have the fact that since, after the verdict of Makrouf and Damjanović, we have 59 convictions in the Court of BiH for crimes against humanity under Article 172. The penal code of BiH. A law that has just been problematicd by Maktouf and Damjanović's verdict and 19 counts of war crimes against the civilian population. In the same period, at the same time, the Court reached 63 counts of war crimes against the civilian population by applying the SFRJ criminal law. We tried to analyze why different approaches and who they refer to. The question of fellow Lovrinović was also addressed by the national structure of the convicted or those who are being sued, we received the answer that such information cannot be read and not watered in the register and that it is not answered. However, what I will say is that the general opinion, attitude and the thesis of the members of the HVO who are involved in these processes, and the general public who are interested in members of the HVO, is more stringent in Article 172. The penal code of BiH reserved for members of the HVO, and the SFRJ Penal Code most often for members of some other armies. We would like, I say, to evaluate from this data how accurate this attitude may be and whether this impression may be partly or entirely wrong. In any case, this impression, this attitude, this kind of analysis we have, leads to a great mistrust in the Croatian public in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this segment of the judicial system regarding war crimes, not only in the judicial system, but also in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that's not good. I agree that corruption is the problem of number one in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I can also say that, so to speak, unfortunately we have more problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Maybe corruption seriously and in the second term destroys the Bosnian Herzegovina society, but also the process of war crimes if it is not consistent or if it is suspected, currently and deeply destroys society in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This mistrust is indeed the cancer of the early Bosnian Herzegovina society. I will turn the question we had on this subject so for the next session, I now announce it orally, but in writing, I will ask the question about the application of the BiH Penal Code and the SFRJ Penal Code, let's see an analysis by, to say, military components, that's not a question of national structure, so we can get an answer from which we can draw conclusions and improve trust, so to speak. A few more maybe sentences about today's session and any conclusions we're going to make here. I see we'll have inflation conclusions here today. I'm sorry, here's what I, as in the subject of the layman's justice, in the subject of layman's law, will be difficult to concentrate on and decide on these conclusions. I'd like it to be a serious issue like this, and even serious conclusions, to consult legal experts, so to speak, in order to make decisions that are expendable. And the same thing about these stakes, here I would, seven conclusions, here I would, a colleague of the SDS or, uh, the SDS Club, that's right, it says, to me, the legal layman, they're acceptable and maybe good, but I'm interested and I'd like to know if they had a certain life ahead of them, so they could adopt them here, and not just adopt them here, this pre-life, it seems to me, should have been within maybe the parliamentary majority, and maybe the judicial bodies, because they're very serious. They're almost the issue of the structural reform of the judiciary we've been talking about for a long time. In order to make a valid conclusion about them here in Parliament, parliamentarian, it is indeed necessary to know to what extent they are enforceable. We can easily adopt them here in Parliament today, we know that we are standing with the parliamentary majority, but for some bites we will often, in different ways, or not to say from the hill, from the valley, that is a bad term, come to the parliamentary majority, but these conclusions work on a permanent basis or on the function of Parliament in the next, let's say, half a year or a year. And for this work, we really need a serious qualified parliamentary majority to adopt, and not to say that we need this very predestination of these conclusions, that we know that they are enforceable, consulting and with justice, which is not a sin on these issues, so perhaps I should say with those who are the godfathers of the current 27 justice solutions, if necessary or not. I say, uh, I wish this was a theme session for the whole day, and I wish this was a theme session maybe prepared for the whole judiciary, and then I could say about the conclusions and what we're going to discuss here, adopt, have a clearer opinion, and that they are indeed conclusions that, independently of the current political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be implemented and implemented.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18198	Thank you very much. Just so you know that this time that's up there is not real, we're measuring time here, and the technique can try to solve that application issue once, that the session can go normal. Ma'am, the esteemed representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18199	I just want to answer his question to an esteemed colleague whether these conclusions had a predicate. So these conclusions are not inventing hot water, but a guide to applying what we already have in the region and what we have in Europe. Here we have excellent research into our research sector which has done research on the topic of high-level judicial and high-level prosecutorial councils in countries, geographically, Europe. And they are separated everywhere – Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, Slovenia, Portugal, Poland, Bulgaria, some have none, so there are neither high court nor high prosecutorial councils. We also have research here, this one, which concerns the election of judges, presidents, prosecutors, chief prosecutors, I remember, here were colleagues here, together we met the chief German prosecutor. And the woman said, "I'm chosen by Bundestag and I'm a political person." So it wasn't us, we just gave the instructions to do it the way the whole world does, because obviously this system doesn't work. And we didn't imply concrete solutions, but we just left the possibility that the profession would make this concrete solution, in which way they would choose the High Court, or High Prosecutor's Council. Together with all these solutions that we have in Europe is that at least half of these members choose their colleagues, which I think is quite right. It's up to the rest of us to have our waist answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18200	Thank you. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18201	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So, I will start with the Council of Ministers of BiH because last month we had one of the sessions and a review of the Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress towards the EU integration of colleagues Šepić's initiative, where they delivered the Information and through this information it was seen that Bosnia and Herzegovina had done nothing about the rule of law, and from this information that was delivered to us, it was confirmed once again. So, the respected minister in his presentation was based on statistics, on what we had the opportunity to read for ourselves, however, in this statistics was not used by emphasising the statistics that are important to the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is how liberating and how many conditional statements there are, is it, by the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at any level. But I will start by saying that the Council of 28 ministers in this delivery of our information has actually set up as an ad panel, so the Council of Ministers does not consider that a satisfactory level of fight against organised crime has been achieved, and so they give us some other conclusions, as they are yet committed, but they are committed to combating corruption and crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this respect the Minister has not been used to inform us, that is to say, to get to know this distinguished Parliament that the VSTV 2014 was, in 2015 and finally in November 2016, initiated an amendment to the VSTV Act to improve the situation in the judiciary, but probably as the minister was busy preparing the amendment and supplementation, i.e. the pardon law, ignored this initiative by the VSTV. So in this respect, I would not only criticise the VSTV, but here we all have to put together criticisms, from ourselves to go and that this system, therefore these three sides..., from the Council of Ministers, to the legislative authority, to the VSTV do not cooperate and exchange neither data nor information. This information also offered us how many judges and prosecutors there are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. and the judge says 1,108, prosecutors 380 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree with all those colleagues and colleagues who have said that they are not all the same, both in this Parliament and in the executive authority, both in judicial or judicial cases, not all people are the same. But what's going on? It happens that we in these reports that we get either this Information or the report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's work, we don't have information about every single judge, what he does, whether he has fulfilled his norm, whether he, how many cases he has returned, what these people are doing. And now that you compare how in 2015 we are on the prosecutor's initiative, is it, that the privileges enjoyed by the executive and legislative authority, which we finally voted on, raise the question why they are not subject to the same responsibilities as we are. If every MP and every minister can measure his work, as many times as he has reported, how many times has he initiated an initiative, an amendment, an addition to the law, how many Council of Ministers have sent the law to the parliamentary procedure, so we know absolutely nothing about judges and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is the wrong approach, especially because those who are moral, ethical, who are people of dignity, integrity and who are working to establish the Bosnia and Herzegovina justice system are, or are already, placed in the same basket as those who are absolutely against the establishment of the judicial system, and we know that there are such. So, this information has been offered, I will briefly without a statistic, so that it can be concluded that in most cases persons accused of corruption crimes are not found guilty. So the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina should know. That this leads to mistrust in the judicial system, therefore, is dominated by conditional convictions for corruption crimes against all other types of criminal sanctions. And this means that most of the criminal proceedings that have been committed after the indictment ends with a court sentence that is not a conviction, and this happens to be paid by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the budget, because the costs of criminal proceedings are subject to, therefore, if they are released or imposed by a conditional one, this one is subject to the costs compensated from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. So the question arises as long as the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will pay inefficient systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina for any level of enforcement, legislative, and judicial authorities. So this information, I can agree not to offer a mass of it, but also offers what, therefore, it does not say thanks to alternative sources of information, it can be concluded, i.e., to find out. So let's say in the VSTV BiH, in its Information, it has adopted criteria for the assessment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's prosecutors, however, we are not offered information that you have passed the criteria for assessing Bosnia and Herzegovina's judges. Still, you, too, say in your Information, have not yet amended the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way, therefore, which assesses the President of the Court of BiH and the Judges of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So they are not subject, the President of the BiH Court is not subject to any evaluation, which means that again we are not all 29 equal to the law. So, if we have this person who absolutely, perhaps, I will not prejudge, but may not meet, or it is shown to violate the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, by verticality, that person, no one is overseeing or evaluating her, and they do not have a limited mandate. So, in the context of this, I will propose a role where the BiH Ministry of Justice is bound by this initiative of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council that within 60 days of the adoption of this conclusion in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it prepares and in the parliamentary procedure the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecution of BiH and the Law on the VSTV, which will cover the limitation of the mandate of all holders of judicial functions to eight years, the law prescribed to evaluate all holders of judicial functions on the basis of the prescribed criteria for evaluation, and the mandatory reporting of the work of each individual, holder of judicial functions, in the report delivered to us annually, in the Report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Ministry of Justice of BiH. I hope that my colleagues and colleagues will support these conclusions, because this is all in order to finally establish a system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as we all signed this famous Reform Agenda and set ourselves up for the EU integration path, I guess we should work on that. I agree that, therefore, it would probably be better if we had a transparent choice of a political person, which is what counterpart Pandurević mentioned that a political person like in the Bundestaga, however, we now have that, so it's only public choice here, so they're all politically set, depending on the ruling coalition, and that's why it's a cancer wound, because 25 years we have one and the same ones who choose their listeners in the other, here in the judicial institutions, and that's why Bosnia and Herzegovina can't go forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18202	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18203	Short, here, correction of the wrong quote. I also wanted to say it in my presentation, but my colleagues, Gasal, therefore, today we have part of that political, as it is called, personalities, but they are not elected by the politicians, chosen by the institutions, chosen by individuals hiding behind politics, hiding behind institutions and working for those individuals. If they were working for a policy, then that policy would be responsible and we would know who we'd address it to. Today, therefore, that is not the case. One of these suggestions that I will still have in my debate today will actually go the other way. Without that kind of responsibility, direct responsibility, we will not get out of this problem. You today have those who most, who work against the national interests of their peoples, who swear most to the national interests of their peoples, their ethnic groups, their countries, etc. And what are they doing? They hide their private, personal, family interests and other interests. So that's the problem... and in that sense to one such problem needs to be found an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18204	I understand, correcting the wrong allegations, the chairman, or is it a debate? Yes, the debate is now, I thought he reacted. I'm sorry, the debate, chaired by Šefik Džaferović. Here's 30.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18205	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that today's House of Representatives session is extremely important and that I immediately follow the path that I think this session should go. We need to fulfil our Constitution of attached obligations and must at no time enter into the jurisdiction and sphere of what is the system of judicial authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are connected, both legislative and executive and judicial, but everything, when it comes to the key moments, is concentrated here, in this Parliament, all starts with the Constitution of BiH, starting with the law, and it is our additional responsibility, to carry out our obligations, and not to enter into the sphere at any moment so that we can be objected to the system of judicial authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I want this system to be completely independent, completely independent and to be responsible and effective, because it is in the interest of this country and all of us living in this country. That's why I think, and I'm going to talk first about what I think would be good, and at this point there is no political agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina, unfortunately. I will talk about the tendencies that are going towards the collapse of the system around which there will also be no agreement, and thank Bog there is no consensus on that, and I will talk about what I think is possible to do at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with this route and this direction that I was talking about. Although it is true that the judicial system at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has its constitutional basis, anyone who knows how to interpret the Constitution on the basis of the methods of the rights applicable to the interpretation of the legal standard is clear to him, and this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court, that both our High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH have their constitutional basis. But it is also true that in the normative part of the Constitution, the system of judicial authority is not mentioned anywhere, and that it is a matter of interpreting the Constitution, the European Convention, the need to level out the protection of human rights throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the first thing that I think would be bold in Bosnia and Herzegovina is to do constitutionally, in the normative part of the BiH Constitution, we create judicial institutions and justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially because we have four fragmented systems that are not well connected or even harmonised, and this is the first prerequisite that we could have equal protection for every man on every inch of this country. The next thing that is important in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the establishment of the Supreme Court of BiH. Without the Supreme Court, there is no guarantee of uniform court practice and there is no guarantee of the protection of individual human rights throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina according to the same standards. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in my opinion, it is necessary to unify all judicial procedural laws, starting with a criminal, litigious, outsider, administrative procedure. Without it, there is also no guarantee of equal protection of rights. And we need a single budget, we have today's budgeting from 14 budgets. That's something that makes it very difficult for this system to function. And these are four things that I believe should be the subject of future reforms when political agreement is reached in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, there is no such agreement at this time, but that does not mean that I should not present it here as my opinion on what is to be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are also trends in Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring down the current level of reform. We have a reform that has given certain results, I would be happier if that reform had gotten more significant results, but the tendencies that want to destroy this system have started to emerge. There will be no agreement on any devasting or collapse of the achieved level of reform when the judicial authority system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is at stake. The biggest, most significant thing in this reform is the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which appoints all the holders of judicial functions in the entire territory of this country and which is required to respect the principle of proper representation of the constituent peoples and others, of course, with the professional criteria and the ability of candidates. It's so important for the 31st reintegration of this country that I don't need to explain it to smart people. And that is why I call on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to continue to strictly respect this criterion. This is a very sensitive issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with many disputes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You haven't celebrated yourselves gentlemen of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council lately with some statements and some proceedings. I ask you, take care of this criterion, it is for me the most important aspect of this reform, the reintegration of this country. We'll end up easier and simpler later. When according to the '91 census. The years name people in some courts, these are signs. These are very important things and insist on it, you have full support and full responsibility for every time you step away from it, you know, we also conducted public debates on the subject. Where is it, what is it, I don't want a debate in that direction today. For me, support has every appointed official, but this is a very important thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no reduction in the capacity of the BiH Court of Justice. It is not possible to fight corruption, but to desist Article 72. The law on the BiH Court is only possible to specify it. There's no reduction in capacity. No, we're running, we're trying to pass laws, we're trying to separate two courts, we're setting up other seats, there's no change in the seat, so I'm speaking publicly about it, the judicial institutions, there's no change in the principles of equal representation and representation as prescribed by the Constitution, and we know what it is. With us, when the law is passed, or tries to pass the law, immediately, so let's see where the seat is going to be, that's the main thing, and see if it's proportion or parity right now. The constitution has prescribed this, and this must be respected in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Where there are possible reforms and where we can as Parliament, I will propose a conclusion today. How much time is there? __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, I haven't run out of time yet, I've got three more minutes for this discussion, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18207	Please don't throw it out of the parliamentary benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18208	So, I think that we need to seriously approach a reform that is possible to achieve agreement, political agreement in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to get a more efficient and functional system of judicial authority, including in the fight against corruption. I think that in the context of the high, that in Bosnia and Herzegovina focus in the next period, but we should do so in co-operation with the High Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, so I will propose the conclusions: 1. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH to take legal initiative or other needs of activity in order to: (a) to prescribe precise procedures for the role of members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and make the process as transparent and responsible as possible. From there it all begins, we must arrange this in Bosnia and Herzegovina; b) ensure a more efficient and functional structure of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, both in terms of the Council's composition and in terms of the dominant influence of 32 judges on the choice of judges, i.e. prosecutors in the election of prosecutors (possibly the introduction of the council). I am not in favour of separation, for two councils, but for the sections within this Council, with a dominant influence, as I have said; c) the election process of judges and prosecutors as objectively as possible, and made it completely transparent to be selected the most professional personnel; d) tightened the conditions for the selection of judges and prosecutors in the Court and the Prosecutors of BiH, to entity Supreme Courts and Entity Prosecutors; e) precisely established the system of responsibility of judges and prosecutors for the work they do; f) set up objective criteria for the work of judges and prosecutors whose realisation will depend on the prescribed salary; g) the property situation of judges and prosecutors to make public; criminal proceedings, a special phase of the main search made shorter and more functional. Those who know what a criminal procedure is and what the main search is can't help but be caught by the head when they hear that on average, the main search takes several months, even a few years. These are things that were just unknown before. I think that we should consider the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, which speak on the subject, do through the law the concentration of evidence and end the main search more effectively. It can't take a few years. I don't remember cases, I've done this job, I've done this job very seriously, I don't remember cases that lasted a few years. It all ended in a few weeks, at most a few, a few months. What we have today is something unacceptable and this is a very important matter for the debate, for the professional community, not for us politicians, for the people who do this work. 2. The activities from this point only read, from a) to h), should be taken within six months. 3. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information every six months on the results of the fight against organised crime and corruption. I could do this on the subject. More, but I'll stop here. [[the chairman warns on time]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18209	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Debate, Senad Šepić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18210	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I join all those who today have said that this debate is necessary, it took a long time. We sitting here know how we feel when it comes to legal certainty, say those of us sitting here, and all the people in this country know it. I'm, uh, and I realize this and I'm going to discuss it today, and I've been acting this way all along with extremely well-meaning and extremely clear messages to fix the situation. So here today, some, as I would say, attack attitude from one group and from another without any argument of justifying everything we have. So, I think they're both guilty. So today our approach should be to speak honestly, transparently and openly of problems and to find solutions. So we will find solutions in a way that 33 help good people. I am sure that there are a lot more good people in judicial institutions than those who, in fact, are who we are having these discussions today and who, in some ways, have suffocated the entire system that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By taking sides with these good ones, we send a message to the team, as it is called, the bad ones, who think that by privatising any, uh, institutions, therefore, they can do evil to both these institutions and generally do bad to this people we represent in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers' information is not good. So that's what we all have to agree on. She is, in particular, not, as I would say, one pale statistic that is nothing concrete to us, in terms of the real problems we have in the judiciary and about which we have spoken so far, has not offered us some, some guidelines, some direction of action. So that's why I'm going to ask at the end of this discussion to prepare another material after today's debate, with a lot of these good discussions that we've heard here today and with some of the guidelines that we should set out in the next period what we need and how we need, how we can fix the situation in this area. And what's actually interesting is that this material that we've been getting, that's what someone said here today, unanimously adopted. It's pretty much saying that the Council of Ministers, that it's raised its hands to think that it can fix something in this area, that it can direct something, that it can in some, what it's called, in some, this, in some things, that it can open up some direction of action so that we can fix these things, which, in my opinion, is a bad thing. We should today, say, help the Council of Ministers to people who are loud, there are a lot of people out there who, the good people who are trying to fix the bad situation that we have, and stand aside and those forces. What was particularly interesting to me from the Minister's discussion, the minister today said a few things, so there is a huge mistrust of the citizens in the judiciary, that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office mainly did not justify their existence, that there are no standards that the Court has led to the delegation and takeover of the case, that it was mostly done without control now. So, now if you only analyze what the sentence means -- that without control is mostly done now when it comes to proposing and delegating, uh, objects. Then you can figure out for yourself what the minister actually thinks about these, uh, activities and the work that he's mostly noticed so far. 195 cases against celebrities. It's a bit old in 2016, and it's interesting, let's say, to look at what it is, what it's really about. The courts have not used repression, although legislation has given them this and in some ways it acts in a stimulating way, as it is called, criminal policy is stimulating, says corruption, an existing criminal policy. So when we see all of this and we hear these discussions, or these views expressed by the minister, so this is extremely alarming, these are the most alarming statements we've heard from him today, and the same ones we hear from most of the colleagues who have taken the floor today in this discussion. The fact is that we have to react, nobody should be nervous about it when it's said that the situation in this area has to be fixed. So this is no sacred thing, as it is called, a letter, untouchable. So, there's someone who thinks they have their own, what's called, security in these institutions that we actually need to be told here today that this is something untouchable. I think that these things must be reacted by us sitting here and being chosen by the peoples, we have an obligation to, in that sense, and to discuss, have the obligation to offer certain solutions in that sense. I'm one of the people who speaks out loud about it, and by my every action, I confirm that I want to build institutions that serve all people, not chosen, not some groups of families, no matter where they come from. And if we have a commitment anywhere, we have the right to say it and do it, then this institution here, that's this Parliament here. And so, therefore, thank Bosić and thank you to all the people who in this sense sought this kind of discussion today, although there are a bunch of other priorities, a bunch of other topics that must be found on the agenda. 34 So those who suppress the debate about this do not protect any institutions, do not protect any, as it is called, the state-run order of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country, they mostly protect their private, family interests. Therefore, they also protect thieves, protect the largest part of those who are their, perhaps, political employers, so they need to be protected, so I support many of the discussions that Minister Mektić has been saying lately, and we need to stand behind those people who have the courage to deal with the problems that we all know exist in this country. I support, therefore, and most of the conclusions I have heard today from Bosić, Bećirović, some of the conclusions that he finally mentioned by counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Perhaps Bećirović Damir, to supplement the conclusions that speak about the information he has asked for to be completed and with information on the appointments of judges and prosecutors and their direct family ties with executive or legislative authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You'll see about where it comes from, what it's called, a kind of problem, you'll see how much that nepotism has. You'll see how much, let's say, through this nepotism, the fair processes that need to happen in this country are holding back. I am, therefore, someone who feels that this must be opened and that in this sense there must be an answer to such problems. counterpart Aleksandra Pandurević says one of the main prosecutors in Germany is the person elected in parliament. And she publicly says - I was elected to Parliament, Bundestag chose me, I am a political person. Let's just say I'm one of the people I think we should do this in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's the difference between Bundestag and, as it's called, Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here, politically, and here are the judges, prosecutors and some judges politically elected persons, but from individuals, then, they hide behind the institutions of Parliament, hiding behind, say, the institutions of political parties, name the family there, the listeners of some of their own who work for their interests. Let's protect those honest people who want to, who do their job fairly, by separating those weeds, separate it from each other and end that kind of relationship. So that's the key difference, there's a responsibility in the Bundestag. It would never occur to Angela Merkel to propose no one in the institution because he is close to her or to anyone else if that person is not extremely correct, extremely fair, extremely responsible and not responding to the citizens of Germany. In our case, it is quite different, in fact, for those individuals who named them there. Here, we're sitting, say, here in Parliament, I'm one of the people who sits here, say I'm one of the people who's got the largest number of votes on the list that I've run for election unit where I come from, most of you sitting here, like you have, say, an opportunity to answer to people who've chosen you for the obvious problems that come up. There's a case that can be solved in three days, and someone's been waiting, say, 13 years, and that's all right. When you talk about the need to fix it, you know what people say – don't touch it, it's a state-run, vital national interest, as it is called, an attack on the state, a state-owned position of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're all floscules, they're all mantras, they're all pranks and manipulations behind which individuals who abuse this system are hiding. And so I ask you, finally, that, and I call on even our friends, there are a lot of people very professional, very, very professional in this area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the international community, to help us in this sense to get the most honest, the most qualitative, to get quality transparent solutions that, as I mentioned earlier, will serve people in this country, not some narrow families, narrow groups and some small alienated centres of power. I want to believe that this today, that this is really just the beginning of a fair debate in this area, so that we sitting here in this House will contribute to, as I would say, in the interest of all the people who live here, and that in the end and after this today's debate, therefore, that the Council of Ministers will have a little more courage and courage and courage, to say, to take away from some of those alienated centres of power, political centres, and that they will also propose active measures, that they too are working more actively in that 35 sense, and that we will get solutions which, here, will understand that in this area, we are returning faith and we are returning hope to people that there is a rule of law in this country, so that there is a state and institutions that will protect and work for all people, so that there are... institutions that will work... for people to stay here. When you do an analysis... of those issues I've discussed a dozen times so far, leaving the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then you'll see that one of the key, one of the first three problems that people, uh, show that they want to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina is that legal uncertainty. People say – it is clear that we are in this country, that we are not equal in this country, as it is called, all before the laws and it is clear that here are the institutions that are chosen to protect them in advance, and the same ones that they want to, therefore, push them aside or in some way deal with them the way they want them to. So I'm asking you to take this extremely well-intentioned, to make, let's even say, at the end of the set of these conclusions from all sides that we've got, we can do one group that would look at it together. Don't split up here into some position, opposition, let's split up here into those who want the rule of law and those who want to save some of their little private families. So against these others. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18211	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18212	I don't know which Šepić to correct, this one now or the one from three years ago, because the one from three years ago was against us being like Bundestag and choosing the chief prosecutor in Parliament, this Šepić currently advocates it. So, as far as I'm concerned, I prefer this one today, Šepić, rather than the one three years ago. Not just because he came out of the party, but because this attitude that he expressed today is much closer to my position. But I am glad that at this point where we are talking, as my colleague Šepić says, in a well-intentioned way, he matures the opinion that we as a state do not need to differ from others. When we discussed the way the chief prosecutor was elected in the last term, there were different models from different experiences, from different countries, not only in the region, but also in the European Union, then any importance of improvement in this direction was the betrayal of the state. I think it was wrong and it's a good thing we evolved in a way that we could talk openly about different models. It took us three years, but, well, it's never too late.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18213	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18214	I have to brief my colleagues to Šepić, when he says criminal policy is stimulating, so again, we are resorting to this generalization of things here. And why is it important, if you already mention and suggest some conclusions, then I would add your conclusion to the second one that you are, the first one to mention, and then you should deliver the gentleman, who is in charge of it, individually who resorted and did not use the law of the prescribed punishment, but who resorted to using under the law prescribed 36 penalties to free some. So we here have to talk about individuals, because individuals in the system, most of whom are, are preventing us from having Bosnia and Herzegovina today who are really committed to the European path, who are really going to work on reforms and who are going to bring systems into order.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18215	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18216	Well, I'm going to tell Mr. Magazinović about, uh, this Šepić thing and stuff, some time before and after. So my friend Saša knows, therefore, the reasons why I and many others were then against what, after seven days of talks and negotiations, Zlatko Lagumdžija, to remain in power, led to Banja Luka with Milorad Dodik, came up with a fairy-tale solution for the two to elect the chief prosecutor here in Parliament. And the reason and difference is that it would be Zlatkov's prosecutor, not the prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And these are the differences I'm sure she knows and this current Saša Magazinović, unlike the one three years ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18217	Thank you. Chairman Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18218	So, please nicely, I did not say in my presentation, I did not refer to one very important thing that was highlighted by my colleague Pandurević in her conclusions, and the Club of its conclusions, and who has now mentioned Mr Magazinović, it would be dangerous for Bosnia and Herzegovina to change any judicial function appointment from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to any parliament. Dangerous because of the little unity of Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary system. To move the chief prosecutor and his appointment here to Parliament means to move the remaining 13 prosecutors to the cantonal and entity parliaments and to break up a little unity. And that's why I'm not for that kind of reform, at least that way. Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18219	You see, very briefly, I don't think I have any intention, so I'm going to try to convince you that all this can be done differently when it comes to the original function performed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Like that. It can make two-thirds of the majority. So there are options, Mr. Džaferović, to be considered, and regarding the proposal of my distinguished colleague when it comes to the appointment by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which should bear responsibility for the appointment, above all, of prosecutors. I would especially like to point out the prosecutor's question in relation to the judges, because the issue of the prosecutor's election was just, at least in 18 parliaments, watching practice, 37 present, where the election of prosecutors is being held by parliaments. So it can be a two-thirds majority. It will be difficult for us to reach agreement, but if we reach a two-thirds majority agreement, that responsibility for selecting this prosecutor will also be borne by the Parliamentary Assembly, which performs its electoral function, because it is represented, legislated and our obligation is to hold that part of the electoral position. Therefore, there are options that can be respected by the fact that the colleague was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18220	Thank you very much. Everyone has a right to their own opinion. I think we're talking about two different things. Mr. Šepić, this is your third plea for correcting the wrong quote, you have the right to two. Dear Representative Željko Komšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18221	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. A very important topic, I'm not going to say ticklish, but I'm afraid the debate can lead us to a kind of surface, and it's not the essence of this agenda point to go out, uh, with stronger statements, angry statements in front of the media, and that's how we try to explain what attitudes we represent. I'm afraid, I'm saying, we're slipping into a kind of surface. To be honest and honest, the problem we are talking about, the source of this problem, is not the source of this problem, or the people sitting here in front of these institutions. The essence of the problem we are talking about today is actually in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political and public life and the way institutions act, primarily by the executive and legislative authorities. So it's not just the justice system that we're talking about today. We all know that it has become a standard practice for us to act directly by violating regulations, regulations in force, and we all know that we and the representative bodies know how to lay down regulations that are contrary to the Constitution, in conflict with other regulations, we know that this has become a standard of conduct. And that's what's happening to us... If the essence of the problem in the institutions of the judiciary we would have had a simple and easy problem, but I'm afraid that this problem goes a little deeper into the whole, the entire state administration, when I say the state administration, I mean executive and legislative power, I think if you want to have organs on the lower levels of that authority, that we're not talking about the appearances of inspection bodies, etc., etc., which are also one of the elements of this apparatus of coercion. So, it's not about what we're talking about, we all know it and we're not lying. When we attack the judiciary, we policymakers usually do it for reasons that don't process those who are our political opponents. The second reason we attack them is that we attack them for processing us or ours. No matter how you turn, it's no good. But the bottom line, people, the problem is, that's what people are going to say to us, you're going to see where you politicians get the right to teach even to the judiciary. When I say the essence of the problem isn't there, the essence of the problem is here between us. Do I need to give you examples of the illegal conduct of the executive authorities, whether it should give you examples of the adoption of regulations that are not in accordance with either the Constitution or the legal system of this country at any level? Is that a miracle in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Don't get me wrong I won't amnesty these institutions, on the contrary, especially when there are cases of corruption in them, but don't, please, wash our hands too. You all know very well what we're talking about and what the people who deal with politics in this country tend to do. Someone can say – but it's because they don't process them, but I ask you what we do. How can you happen to hear a sentence in public and political life, one said it publicly, but most of the thoughts that work today in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life -- we know it's not by law but we're in a hurry. And that's okay, that's just fine. But you people know what the tragedy of all this is? What kind of 38 capillaries have been transmitted to all the pores of society, so it is no longer news, nor much interested, when a new investigation into large-scale crime is opened, when a new political or public person appears, it is no longer news in this country. That standard of what law is and law enforcement, making a state, and even what is moral, I would not say that judges and prosecutors have brought to the bottom, but above all, politics. And that's why I say we go into debates even legally technical, giving ourselves the right to say things where we're not professional. To talk about it, too, to talk about it, of course, to talk about what Mr. Šefik has set as an example and a fear of not jeopardizing the entire system, to talk about even having prosecutors named in Parliament, and judges, can do that, and we have those examples in practice. But we're not talking about the essence, we're not talking about how we're acting, and that's the point of the problem. No Niko here has touched the story and our hypocrisy, our politician, when it comes to justice. Let's talk a little bit about constitutional courts. You want to talk about constitutional courts or we're gonna shut them out of the whole story. Here, I want to be the judge of the Constitutional Court, no better job. How can this directly from Parliament jump into the chair of the Constitutional Court judge and yell I am independent. Okay, well, I can, I respect those people very much, I can do that, but they're not judges or the High Court and Prosecutor's Council did that, people. It was done here, like this, in these bodies, and that as a product of agreement between three or four people, not even the whole of Parliament. Let's not close our eyes on things. There are, of course, questions for both the prosecution and the court, and I have questions as a lawyer. I find it illogical in the State Court on one level to ensure two-stageness, that one court judges both in the first and second fears, it is illogical for me, because here we have, now we have the case in the BiH State Court. I have a question -- how could it be, I'm trying to define this for myself, how could there be 92,778 unsolved executives, I don't understand how, how did this happen technically? There are a lot of questions, but let's deal with what's the point. Are we really, we can choose the prosecutor in Parliament, we can choose him through the Independent Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, you know what will be the essence? The bottom line is who this person is, what he is, moral and professional. In my view, the situation we are in seems more fair to me now that we choose him in Parliament, so that at least he can't yell when he comes here and says, "Here you are, talk what you want me not to answer you." So you're wondering what we're even discussing, for example. Information about the prosecution's work, which we discuss when we can't do anything, what's the point of it. Unfortunately, I say, breaking the law has become a standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The source of the standard is, above all, in the institutions of the executive and legislative authorities. Unfortunately, it's not with them, it's with us, because too many times I've heard some people, who I love, who I think even want these countries to move forward, who are justifying me like this, say, "Why do you do it, it's not legal, why do you do it?" They answer to me, so what does it matter, everyone does it. It can't do that, it can't do that. And we'll have people spinning around in circles, we'll make some conclusions here, they'll be carried out or they won't be carried out, we'll see, we'll attack some people here, someone'll leave, we'll replace someone under pressure, one way or another and what we get, what we get. Well, none of us, people, the D.A. has reached the end of the term. What's he saying? We're all gonna play silly now, and we don't even know how they came, right? You want to open up a story about the role of the international community in the whole story, you want us to open up a story systemically about how we're being inserted into certain institutes. Compared to that system that we lived here, continental law. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'm going to finish the chair, thank you, although there's a lot to talk about here. I'm just asking you not to slip into the surface. It's not that we people here today, like they do in their business, bring them on a bench and we judge them, first of all we can't judge them, but the thing is whether we want this country or not. with all its elements that every normal state has, and from us begins, us politicians, whether we respect the laws or not. [[The ambassador is warned at 39 times]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18222	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18223	Dear colleague Komšić, I ask you not to generalise, because there are those of us who, in terms of discussion, have not gone to political opponents or their own responsibility at any time. This is about what it is and what it should be by definition of extra-party, out of politics, out, out, out, out, out, but what it takes to implement the laws that have been passed in this country. I've cited here and examples, and now I'm going to tell you another one. The Sarajevo court has reached a verdict, and the judge is without eyes – according to the 1993 court case-law in Banja Luka, but does not say that the same verdict was annulled as illegal, passed, in the conditions in which it was adopted, 1998. And that judge is making an express progress. So, I said, you heard what this is about, it's about property, it's about judgment by court practice in '93. from Banja Luka, and then he gets promoted. The fact that it all fell down on these courts is nothing. That's what politics is all about, because it was about our great politicians who run this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18224	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18225	I apologize to Mr. Backović if you've identified yourself, I deliberately used the phone book, in the plural, so we didn't deliberately go to each other's names. I'm sorry if, uh, if I offended you by that, it wasn't my intention, nor to make anyone special potential. And when we talk about individual examples, judgments, the acts of individual prosecutors and judges, you know where it would take us all. I've had a chance to look at them and laugh at things. At that time when I was studying, some of those people who wrote it would have forced it out and never let them go to law school anywhere in the former country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18226	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18227	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bosić, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The material we received underlines that the structural dialogue on justice began in 2011. It is a very expensive process for which the international community spent a terrible amount of money, and I am among those who believe that structural dialogue has not been successfully implemented. 40 I do not agree with the claim in the working material that important recommendations and significant and concrete activities have been identified in the framework of the structural dialogue. It is true that the activities of the draft law on BiH courts and the draft law on VSTV have begun, but I would like to say that the perception of the non-governmental sector, whose opinion is very often ignored, and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina we represent, is that the structured dialogue for the judiciary between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union is once again behind closed doors in terms of the non-transparency of the process of drawing up a new law on courts. In May 2014, the European Commission adopted a concrete list of proposals to prevent conflicts of interest in the judiciary, and I think we should discuss this today. In December 2015, with a delay of two years, a strategy for reforming the justice sector was adopted, but no Action Plan was adopted. As for the prevention of conflicts of interest, here I will look back at the VSTV BiH, the regulation has been regulated, in meetings with representatives of the European Union, on these talks concluded that I have not fully identified and banned all possibilities of conflict of interest in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. This is particularly true of the fact that according to the Venice Commission, which represents one of the world's leading legal authorities, the progress of the VSTV members during the mandate itself is not limited. Thereafter, it is not limited to the progress of members to a certain period after the end of the term of office in the VSTV. Furthermore, the presidents of the courts and the chief prosecutors may at the same time be members of the VSTV, and their position as managers of a particular judicial institution may lead to conflicts of interest. No one's talking about it. The membership of lawyers in the VSTV, in particular their involvement in the election and promotion of judicial institutions' institutions, is a phenomenon that can lead to conflicts of interest. And they are not respected, therefore, the recommendations the Venice Commission has warned of, I do not see that any shift has been made in the VSTV in terms of the objections made by the Venice Commission. Furthermore, judges and prosecutors are not required... their total assets. The publication of financial reports and property of judicial authorities and their relatives must be mandatory because Bosnia and Herzegovina is declaring itself to fight corruption. Amendments to the law can make and establish a unique methodology for the delivery and reporting of income and property of members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, as well as of all court officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Venice Commission also warned that the Council does not have the capacity to verify the accuracy of allegations from financial reports, so it only archives them. There are no mechanisms for sanctioning the judicial authority for such irregularities and only the intolerance of VSTV's financial and property data, so this intolerance is not punishable. The further problem the Venice Commission warns about is the principle of confidentiality. The principle of confidentiality of proceedings should be significantly higher than it is now and it is necessary to impose particularly strong sanctions for breach of such a principle as well as for other contacts with third parties outside the judicial procedure that endanger public confidence in the integrity of the judicial authorities. I must say that the public is faced with a large number of corruption affairs within the judiciary itself and the fact that key people in the judiciary are currently under investigation for corruption, which further undermines the hope that the general results of the judiciary will soon improve. Among those MPs, as well as Mr Magazinović, who were asked whether the bh judiciary, i.e. high, or yes, was the statement that the bj judiciary was the most bright point of the Bosnian Herzegovina society, I was free to claim the same as my colleague Magazinović, I said that I absolutely did not think, especially... by the European Commission's report on the state and progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially in terms of the judiciary where there was almost no movement, i.e. certain small shifts within their disciplinary sanctions within the VSTV exist, but the general assessment was not good. And that was the reason, and for me, as well as for Mr 41 Magazinović, the lights dot our children, miners, educators, doctors, but for the representatives of the judiciary, with all due respect to those who work honorably, quickly and efficiently, and there are certainly, no general perception of justice can be given. The question remains, given the fact that in these recommendations made by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the minister of justice, it is necessary to define proposals for more effective deterrence from serious crimes, unifying criminal policy at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issue I have been asking for the past 13, 14 years is again being raised. The Working Party for the Amendments of Criminal Law began working on amendments to the Criminal Law in 2002, the Minister of Justice was then, the Minister of Justice was Mrs. Krišto's distinguished representative, you remember that. The task force stopped its work after 10 years, 11 years, and in 2013, it was abolished and we know that mainly the criminal laws were not even and there was no major progress in the work of that group. No Niko filed a report, at least not with parliamentary parliaments about what the task force had done in those 10 years. It is not acceptable for me, these recommendations are not acceptable for me to define proposals, define proposals in terms of investing in greater efforts to resolve lagging cases, make up a strategy to address the problem of communal cases, and that the VSTV should, in collaboration with the legislative and executive authorities, make up a strategy for resolving the problem of communal cases. I'm asking you why it hasn't been done before. We remember the reform of the judiciary, we remember when the courts were abolished, when they were attached to the basic courts, then we asked the question, remember, here's my distinguished colleague remembers, we showed fear and fear that there would be a build-up of cases and a phenomenon of old age. That, of course, and it happened and I just can't accept it, I can't accept it without saying what it's recommended to define the proposals. I'm asking why it hasn't been done so far. And I'm going to repeat that sentence again let's, please, colleagues who are on the other side, who are therefore representatives of the profession, not to understand our discussions indiscriminately. We really want the Bosnian Herzegovina judiciary to be on a much higher level, at least at the level that the European Union requires of us, which means that you should be independent but you must not be untouchable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18228	I'm sorry, uh, Mrs. Kapetanović, we've just had consultations on this session, its course further, so I'm a little bit. Mr. Kožul, are you looking for a word? You're not asking, thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18229	Dear members of the College, chaired by the Council of Ministers and Ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It's very hard to talk now after, I don't know, ten, twelve speakers without repeating what's already been said. And that's why I'm going to really try not to repeat a lot of what I've been preparing for this session, which is, as has already been said before. First, I have to, in order to fully understand the picture and the reasons why the judiciary is in this situation, we have to go from the very beginning. Therefore, the BiH Constitution does not know the division of power in three pillars, meaning legislative, executive and judicial power. Namely, we know well that the judicial authority belongs to the entities. For this reason, the international community has taken responsibility to impose 42 opposites on the Constitution, and some forces, MPs and delegates then in the Parliamentary Assembly, to adopt certain laws and make reforms that have resulted in what we have today. So what we have today is not only the responsibility of those of us sitting here and those we are criticizing today, but also those who have imposed such a reform in the way I have already said. So, we have one institutional disorder of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then when you have something like that then of course you allow the other two pillars of the authorities to edit or want to office, influence or want to influence this third pillar of government and that is the judiciary. And that's what we have here in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, and that's what caused the problems that we are in today. In this way, the practical control of the judiciary has moved into other hands, passed into the hands of the bearers, first of all, executives, but also some of the legislative authorities. And that control has no citizens, because that control does not have those who feel the most about the consequences of the actions or the inaction of the judicial authority. A series of examples we can point to, on this, there have been many of them today and here, I can quote and, of course, I have a few, there are really very interesting things that are not processed, or they won't be, or they're finished in the way that it's really illogical. Here I will quote, for example, an example of a Žitoprodukt Srbac, when my colleague Backović mentions them, whose property is worth over 10 million, and the court granted it to the New Banja Luka Bank when these failed to settle some credit obligations, although five months after that court decision it was written as a mortgage in the land books. So at the moment of the decision, it wasn't even in the land books as a mortgage. If I wasn't talking about the current, current, uh, case that's on the scene right now, and that's the Termoelectric Stanari that's probably going to be next after the voters, or the Alumine biggest, or maybe even more serious, so, the crime scene, which, unfortunately, although there's a little bit of information in the public, is not about the prosecution, and there's no intention of dealing with it, I guess, I'd like to say that I'm wrong and that the prosecution is dealing with it. Or, let's say you have an example. The situation in Gradišca is that the judge lets his judgments go out of date, which is just amazing. A series of examples, we can now give this kind of mass of examples, I've listed just a few that I've thought of as an example that we have a problem and that this problem is a serious problem. That's why I can't agree with, uh, my colleague Komšić that this problem can be clouded by our bad moves. The fact that we haven't done things right doesn't mean that the court, the prosecution, or the judiciary, has the right to justice to hate, or to do bad work, or to make mistakes in it. It is also more than clear that there are no clear criteria that will first be on stage when the judges and prosecutors are elected. So it happens to us that the president, for example, of some court, here's the basic economic court in Banja Luka being the man who's his first job, or who doesn't have a man of experience. Well, I guess it's not for the judge, and for the president, he doesn't need the experience. We have a series of cases where, where the judges were appointed, they were later conducted against them, etc., etc., some and resolved I would say no to their guilt but because they came as incompetent people where the ability was sought. There's a lot of these cases, we've had information and reports, and now on the other hand, we've got results. So the birds on the branch sing that over 3 billion marks a year through corruption are damaged by this country, over 3 billion. And how many convictions do we have for that, how many completed cases do we have? This is all, apart from this vague, vague choice, the way of choice, i.e. vague criteria or insufficiently sharp criteria, however you will have, we also have vague, unambiguous and insufficiently defined labour control criteria and individuals, but also institutions. And that something has to be done, otherwise we won't succeed, we won't succeed, whatever we call what we need to do whether the reform, whether or not I know how, we won't do it for sure. And yet another case before I suggest the conclusions, which I have these days, we've probably all read on the networks, it's, at the end of the day, the lawyer is part of the judiciary, about lawyers on official duty that one lawyer in Sarajevo has earned over 4 million KM because everyone wants him, no one else will want him, very interesting that all 43 just wants him, and if by chance someone won't propose him, then they will. We have a situation that, yes, it's not legally settled, we have a situation to get rid of ourselves judges and go to lawyers, or we solve the judge for abuse and he goes to be a lawyer. So, the Law of Lawyerry obviously doesn't fit the moment and what's going on behind. And the sequence is, I say, a series of problems, and here I've tried to make some conclusions without repeating it, although there are really conclusions here that I'm going to support or that I'm willing to support, with the fact that before I make my conclusions I just want to comment on just, uh, the conclusions of the club that I'm also a member of, let some parts of it disagree on. I absolutely support that the chief prosecutor is elected in Parliament, but the condition is a two-thirds majority, so I am not in favour of choosing a simple majority here in Parliament. You think we're gonna have a hard time choosing him, I don't think we're gonna have a hard time choosing him if he's out of the way and if he's an expert. And if we push the parties and don't establish clear criteria then we'll have a very hard time choosing him, better say we'll never pick him, because it's very hard to find a two-thirds majority for someone who belongs to someone and who's already defined himself to someone or something. Also another one of those conclusions I would like to comment on. Namely, I am, uh, I am, I believe that this position on at least one half of the members of the High Judicial Council and the High Prosecutor's Council are elected by their colleagues, and the rest to be elected in Parliament, I would also like to add a mandatory position for half of those elected in Parliament to be from the opposition, half of them from the position, which would be provided with, of course, constitutional.../sound warning for the MPs we have, which would provide.../sound warning for the MP/... I'm really sorry, here's the only thing I can do, if I could just, uh, chair a minute to read the conclusions and...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18230	We've already got them, read them.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18231	Therefore, it is up to the Council of Ministers to through amendments to the legal rules: 1 Ensure depoliticalisation of this area by establishing clear objective criteria and criteria for the selection and appointment of judges and prosecutors. 2. Set clear objective criteria for regular periodic assessment of the quality and quantity of work of judges and prosecutors. 3. Limit the length of the investigation, example: (a) for crimes for which a sentence of up to 5 years in prison is threatened for three months; (b) for crimes for which a sentence of up to 10 years is threatened for 6 months; (c) for criminal offences for which the sentence of over 10 years is threatened to 9 months. Of course this is an example that might be different, but to stop forever. [[Employee is warned on time]] 4. To form a particularly apolitical body that monitors the work of VSTS. ...two bodies. This body should be composed of citizens of different professions, social status, age, sex structures, etc. It would be formed by Parliament and delivered to Parliament once a year. The body, so it wouldn't have anything to do with politics, but... 44
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18232	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. It's time for you to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18233	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18234	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Lalić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18235	Dear Chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, fellow MPs. Here, I will not repeat myself at all, as Mr. Novaković said, because on this topic there is enough space and material for us all to say something significant without repeating ourselves. When, I will start with the title, which reads – Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption. Something doesn't add up here, so I'd take the right to comment on one word. Which is my right, which is the right because I won the election and almost 20,000 votes, it obliges me to the citizens who chose me and gives me the right to comment. And that famous word is crime. Did we finally hear the reaction of the population of this ordinary and harassed one? Someone's gonna say what kind of weird we are. Well, we are unusual about them or we haven't used the name we use every day. The ordinary citizens, the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina know that they recognize what is wrong and they say it – the thief, the criminal, the robber, etc., they didn't go to these big schools, and we MPs, and those who are responsible for the situation, we manage Bosnia and Herzegovina, we probably embellished it a little out of our own fear if we once stuck to not calling us that, so we said -- a tycoon, a controversial businessman, resourceful, etc., as these in the world of estrad introduced the names of the starlets or these various analysts and so on, and so maybe this should have stood – for fighting organised, organized tycunisation, and you see that it doesn't fit, it might say this - crime. I'm not going to go in order somehow after that belongs to me and follow up to say something about the prosecution and the prosecutor's office, the only word that, and that's the sentence that's going to be repeated here is that we're dissatisfied with the prosecution's work. Uh, I'm gonna go back to the streets and to the common people, and now the people have recognized you, too, when we say criminals have recognized that he's no longer a criminal, no more a thief, because they say no one has earned money on the muscles, but on the weapons we have, and that's a pen. So even now criminals are quickly stripping these new tattoo technologies, arming themselves with some schools, and preparing to go to politicians, and even these famous Pink Panthers say they've already figured it out half of them have gone to politics, because it's easier for them to make huge money and there's less risk. When it comes to employees in the prosecution, the judges, of course, and even you, if we're going to say criminals, tycoons, are trying to get their close relatives into the prosecution, the closest members of the family. And it's become modern, although they hide often, it's hard to recognize because they change their last names, and we know when they change, even though they don't change now, often the last name or, this one, or his last last name, is added to it, but if we do find that connection a little bit. Well, then you've got one court case and the other one's on trial, you understand. When we talk about affairs that shake Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'll just list some of them briefly, and I'll look back on one. So from that famous Pandora who promised a lot, and nothing 45 has been done, all delivered to the prosecution, the data says removed, destroyed, and yet I'm back on that street, so people say the most important thing to you is to avoid the first blow. What's that? Then when you're arrested, you're well-runned, you're not beaten there, as the people say, by cops, and then when they hand it all over to the D.A., you defend yourself from freedom, then that game of lawyers and judges and all that ends, they arm you with a little or some little punishment that discourages this population. And here, I'll just look back on one affair the famous trio Export Credit Organization of the Unis and the Direct Taxation Authority. Well, we keep saying that, is it, it's hard to solve where this famous Unis imported 65,000 tonnes into the temporary import of a cold-rolled sheet for internal processing and export, why and there is an Export-credited Agency that pulled 80 million euros from which the founding capital of 50 million marks, and plus, when added on the basis of VAT, also damaged the Directorate for indirect taxation, namely us and the citizens, Bosnia and Herzegovina for cca 20 million. And when their internal control came, they realized there was no gram. The question now arises whether the lemon has even entered, because in the world it is now a trend in driving paper because of VAT returns and fixed business. Obviously, we are in a world that, here, is this famous intermediate commission, which is symbolically expressed through invoices, and we got the wrong idea, so we applied the model to pull, let's not say tycunization again, right? I will not speak for long, and before the end, I only say one example of how people in the world are fighting corruption and the challenges of people who perform certain functions. So you have French "Michelin", a tire manufacturer where their bosses, I know that because for a long time I've been in the business, the head of procurement and sales have a one-time maximum of 3 years and have good receipts, but there's no, he doesn't think that after working hours or Saturdays, he goes to lunch with a buyer or a supplier, because they consider it a strict violation and a violation and conflict of interest and automatically loses his job. And those who judge and those who judge are guided into us. And buddy all the time. That's why I, here, look by chance, give strong support to this minister of ours, Mr. Mektić, where we need to help him, who recognized the problem that he's in the prosecution and he's determined and brave to endure where I don't see that kind of support, but sometimes a trip. We will be responsible here, and we are responsible, for the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I have the habit of saying, we have, when we come here we have three positions of switchers when we work of, racio and emotions, we are mostly on of and on the racio, but still our families, our children, our citizens who have chosen us, oblige us that we should sometimes switch to emotions and give something more in the fight against crime. And my general conclusion is, I'm not at all happy with the prosecution's work, I'm going to unite it as an expression of the prosecution, not to quote their full name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18236	Thank you. Debate, representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18237	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. For me, this very definition of this item of the agenda – Information on the state of the judiciary, then goes with a look at the fight against organised crime, and the opening statement has a minister of justice, and according to this below sentence should have at least a minister of security, so that they can have one full input on the situation at least when it comes to fighting organised crime. 46 This report, which we have received and which we have heard a little bit from the minister, is a little bit specific for the same reasons as if we are some foreigners who have come to this House and now we need someone to tell us that there is a court in this country, there are judges, prosecutors, etc., etc., and without the essence of the one that defines this point of the agenda. Or we are not told whether we have problems with existing legislation, what we need to change, in which direction we need to change it and what the shortcomings it has at the moment are. That's what my colleagues suggest through, or clubs, through these conclusions that you see how many there are, so I'm a principle, so with so many conclusions it's unserious. If we adopt all these conclusions we won't get anything, we'll probably rule out each other, and eventually we'll get one big zero after this debate. If we want to be serious and if we want to help this situation when it comes to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we should at least say, or clubs, or some body from here that will have all this in front of them and which, in cooperation with both the profession and the VSTV, and the prosecution and the court, will propose the best conclusions that will be able to help this situation forward and the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to corruption and crime is catastrophic. Who's to blame? Now we can accuse prosecutors, judges, police, us, citizens of why they don't report it, etc., etc., because it's a complex social problem. Why am I telling us, because I'm a witness about ten years ago that I've been, I've been elected here to this Parliament, and two colleagues have been elected to Parliament where, as you already know, the salary is about five, six thousand marks, and everyone knows it in Bosnia and Herzegovina that she is enormously large, two colleagues have gone to entity governments for salaries of 2.5 to 3,000 marks, to be ministers, to love executive power. So, I asked them why you're going then? He says they like executive power, and they don't like money. I was one of those who criticized some of the parties' views or let me be more specific once to my party when she said that at the head of the state court there must be a Bošnjak. I don't think so, I think that things should be balanced in this country, that they should be understood because of its specificity, but in positions that will mean stronger and stronger fight against crime and corruption must be those that will prevent what we currently have in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in health care, and in education and in every place in Bosnia and Herzegovina where you can see crime and corruption and these are facts. I would be happy if what counterpart Damir Bećirović said today had already entered some kind of court or prosecution procedure, but I am also asking myself a question – where did such information come from or where it leaked from. And that's the D.A.'s problem. We, as I said, need the best in this area, the most professional in this area, and those who have the strength, who have the courage to stand up in the state we live in. Because we live in a country where... Chief Milorad Dodik puts a man in the trunk and trains him and never gets processed, and he's now head of a municipality. We have the same case or similar case in Mostar, which happened a few days ago, where justice was also expelled in the trunk by some of the advisors of the Bureau. A Bosniak member of the presidency takes the man who organized it, here I am to be a personal, terrible threat to my child, take him with you, I don't know if he's had a clear red carpet to get in there. These are the problems that prosecutors have, and these are the problems this society has, these are the problems that all judicial institutions have. How strong we are to step forward, it's right here next to us. Do we have the strength to sublime this all that we've written today, these conclusions that I've shown you, in the five best conclusions that will move these things forward? We'll show if we're ready, not every one of our own suggested, where no one will end up knowing. And what I'd like to ask the judicial institutions, please give me once more to solve what we call political and other murders that have been burdening this country for 25 or 30 years. So why do children born after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina have to have that burden. Because of this burden and such burdens and such unhappiness and what burdens us so, those born after the war are already thinking of leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina or leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are all questions and many questions 47 have those, uh, which each of us today can open on his own example, for example in his environment, and for example in what he hears, sees, and learns. I will not blame anyone here today, but I will ask that, we here, that all these conclusions, we will propose one such conclusion, let all clubs or that in some other way, name one to make five conclusions that will improve the situation in the judiciary, which will also help prosecutors, who will help both judges and who will assist both the police and intelligence services and all those in that chain of fight against organised crime and that state. And when it comes to this structural dialogue, he was, like, a gift once because of the problem with Mil Dodik, so now he doesn't even know what the European Union is going to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18238	Thank you very much. Debate, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18239	I thank and greet all those present. So, as the previous speaker said, I was going to say, in the end, what I'm about to say here. In fact, I also agree that it may not even end today's debate or vote, but that it prepares for the official trip and that these conclusions may be reviewed by all the College and that he may try them, so to say, to offer us a vote, perhaps even today after a break, but perhaps it is better the next time, so that where possibly colleagues are not satisfied and stay with their colleagues, of course they will insist on voting on them, because I will also propose some conclusions, and so there will be, as he said, what fellow Members said, indeed many and how they will be appointed. So, first of all, I got up to say something about conclusions, but here's a brief comment on this information that's our basis for today's debate, and I think we'd all like it to be found in the Information or that the prosecution and the judiciary behaves and acts the way we say it here or somewhere else. So, maybe this is going to be a little blasphemy, so I'm going to seem to defend what they're doing, so if the truth here is in the statistics that they've given us in this, in this information, and the tendency seems to be a little bit more satisfying statistics, they won't be angry, well, then we're mantrare here that we have corruption and crime, because we have five, six convictions, we have, so people have brought to us what they had. So here I'm just thinking out loud, if that's five, six convictions for that kind of crime seven, eight then we don't actually have it, but it's good for us to talk about it, and that the public is burdening and creating a climate of fear and break-up and us representatives and the public, plus that we add tough political issues and then we have a complete, completely anarchical state that seems to fit some. So it is often heard that we say, we are talking about corruption and crime, we are talking about divisions, financial collapse, major political issues, the bias of the RT system, initiatives that disrupt the work of this system, and also in Parliament, the vague functioning of the parliamentary majority, then... about the rise of neo-fascism, ethnicism, and then we are talking about the setting up of problems, the complexity of the system in order to result in its own constitutional changes. And so when you add up these topics you get one, one pretty... state. And if I were in my 30s, by the time I was 30s, maybe I'd be out of here, because there's no perspective, so all you're mentioning from this is an anarchy that we often produce here ourselves, even in this House. I'm saying it because, uh, because, for example, Here's the information, so I'll refer to Mr. Džaferović a little bit when he says there he doesn't mind that 48 prosecutors are elected here, but you know that's what the county's going to choose. And are those the counties on the march, Mr. Džaferović, are they part of this government, what are you saying? What, that we're smarter here or that it's not a system of power, so. Well, that's part of the government of this country while it is. So we just don't think the same thing here when we talk. Or, in this Information, it says -- according to Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitutional and territorial arrangements, in the BiH text, there are four judicial systems. Can you say this in this information? Why are there four systems if it's one system? So, we have county prosecutors, so that's our system, we say ourselves that this is four systems, and that, then I go back to those words that I said before, and then we start talking about division, so the complexity of the system, so we're making some solutions that we'd like to impose on someone and something or through the public and get to those goals that you want, some, some we want. So why are there four systems? It's one system, it may not work properly, here and I've noticed that there are no harmonised relationships in the movement of the case, in perhaps cooperation, in perhaps the same solutions for, when it comes to criminal law, but all of this is to be arranged if it's wanted, and yet it's not four systems if we want, if it's not, if someone's trying to have only one system as he sees it, I don't know, then we certainly come up with some problems. Therefore, I would therefore suggest what I said at the beginning, a few conclusions, that the information is complemented anyway, because I miss it, so other than these statistics, it is what I suppose it is, therefore, I would like to complete within 30 days this Information with a special reference to the assessment of the work of both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court, the quality of the investigation proceedings and the quality of the lawsuits filed on all grounds. So I'd like to see it from whoever gave me this material that grade. Furthermore, with particular reference to the work of the Disciplinary Court and the analysis of the measures put forward. Third, a parallel analysis of the corruption verdicts with the region and the EU countries, and an assessment of the state of corruption, so whoever offers me this material. Some of it has, read the minister, one sentence, so when he said he was creating a favourable climate, but that's very little for me. Then, the assessment of the state of corruption in the judicial bodies. Then, an assessment of the need for changes to the laws under which judicial institutions operate, and ultimately an assessment of the increase in crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the one who offered me this. So, I have statistics, I might have been able to do that and maybe look over this research center, maybe one way or another, but it would be enough for me to have those who gave us this information on whose basis we've been talking today, and maybe we'll talk more, to see how they evaluate these things, so from the figures they've given us. Because now, I've said one sentence, so at the beginning you have judgments and by entities, so Bosnia and Herzegovina since 2013, 2014, 2015 for corruption and crime, and you have six convictions, seven, then it could be concluded that we're talking here, we don't have that. Now, if that's the case, if it's from those numbers, that and whoever offers us this information, then it seems to me that we're misusing our ability to pressure them and ask them, so sometimes they're running to prove to us that something's being tried, and it's not justified, it's not well done, nothing's been done. So that's why I'd like to hear these kinds of grades from you in this material or some other material. Well, then I guess I could get a unique picture. Here, therefore, so much for me, I would suggest these conclusions and perhaps this proposal that, yes, yes, this doesn't end today, but to prepare it and to vote it all right and how good it would be to arrange this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18240	Thank you. Dear Representative Diana Zelenika, discussion. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18241	I thank and warmly welcome all present in the hall. As counterpart Bećirović said at the beginning, this will certainly be a talk room and it is clear that there should be a talk room on the subject, because in my opinion organised crime, corruption and nepotism are the cancer wounds of this society that have metastasized in all social life pores. It's very much said today and this problem has been cut down on several chapters, I'm not going to repeat for colleagues some things, but some of these chapters have been mentioned, so I'm just going to put an emphasis on them. My colleague Backović mentioned criminal privatisation, mentioning some of my colleagues Alumin, a wire factory, so she's doing a local patriotism, I'm going to mention the Soko Air Industry and the fact that in Mostar, where I come from, by the start of the war 44 thousand people go to work every morning, today maybe a tenth of it with a wave in the store, and all these powerful halls of the air industry after the sale of assets now serve only for a fair that is held once a week and we as Mostarac would have to be happy that, here are the hotel facilities and restaurants filled for a week and that individuals take the millions in their pockets thanks to that fair within a week. One of the important problems is the processing of war crimes that we know of, here's my colleague Kožul has talked about, I've talked about it many times, that individuals are tried by the law of the SFRY, others by the Penal Code of BiH, that one knows, the other knows not the joint criminal movement, and only briefly clear, what I always stress, every crime should be punished, has a name and a name, but should be approached in the same way. As the chairman said and said that it matters whether we too fulfil our obligations because it all starts at the Constitution and the law, I will say that I will die, and that it will never be clear to me that some kind of political will can be beyond the law, it will never be clear to me, and it is always done in this country. Well, I'd like to mention an initiative launched by my colleague Pandurević, here almost a year ago, I think somewhere in the sixth month that it was, in connection with the working group for the creation of the Law on illegally acquired property. I wanted to ask the Council of Ministers about it, and then I got the answer, which is why I gave up, that it wasn't on the Council of Nations yet, and I don't know if in the meantime, my last answer was that. In doing so, I will not only appeal to the representatives of one nation, but to several of them and to the inscriptions in the newspaper that they have buildings with numerous already existing, not to say offshore, but to the brother-in-law(?) so little figuratively, and buildings of several million, five, six million marks. So just mathematically to remind you that these people had received, say, 10 thousand marks, if they hadn't eaten, drank, spent, etc., if they'd left everything aside for 20 years, and no one had that kind of income in Bosnia and Herzegovina at least legal, they'd have 2 million and 400, so I wonder, where did they get six? So here I call that not only this House, but others are doing their job legally, because this way they would certainly understand where they're coming from, or maybe it's from these illegal privatisations that I mentioned earlier. And so I think that each of these items that I mentioned, I would even suggest that if it required a special thematic session. Accordingly, if I didn't repeat what my colleagues were saying, and I suggested one of the conclusions, would they ever be sublimed at the next session, I would just want them to be quality. I support the absolute separation of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, but what is very important in accordance with these privatisations and everything I have suggested is one conclusion – That the Council of Ministers of BiH, in cooperation with the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure amendments and additions of the law to these others, referred to only one, criminal law of BiH which would remove the possibility of obsolescence. So, there is no statute against the perpetrators of the criminal-corruption 50 stores, because as my colleague Backović said, return it stolen to the thief, not to the one to whom it belongs. If we voted there was no statute of limitations, then what was stolen would be returned to whoever it belonged to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18242	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18243	So, my colleague Zelenika only actually gave me one strength to say something that has something to do with what she said, but also some colleagues had previously talked about this trend of carrying out various criminal-corruption actions in this House and demanding that they be processed. So, in this moment, as far as I know, only Mr. Backović can be congratulated, who personally when he found out something had gone reported. People say the lawsuit is 100 marks and you with 100 marks, so sue someone who thinks he's guilty and you vote... that the thief, therefore, is to use it and not have the arguments and do nothing to end it, to process it the way it should be done is just a story and that's why I've said it before. Mr. Komšić spoke well here, astonishment here is where I must agree with him when he said how guilty we are. When it comes to privatization, just remember that we didn't want one model of privatisation that was offered differently, even the man was changed because of it, but we had another model, and then we caused what we came up with. And when it comes to the conclusions proposed by Mrs Pandurević, let's say on the trail of what I was saying, so says the fifth conclusion – The BiH Justice Ministry is in charge of establishing the obligation of the judiciary to make annual plans for the processing of organised crime and corruption that Parliament will adopt. So imagine it as if we know in advance how much this is going to be, so I mean, this isn't well said, uh, or maybe we want to build a police state and know right in advance that we're going to charge one 50 of them, and if that doesn't work out, we're going to discuss it in Parliament. So that's why I wanted a little attention to this fifth, which is why it won't be acceptable to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18244	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations, you have no right third time. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, vice-president, Ms. Borjana Krišto, vice-president. Your Honor, sir, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18245	Thank you very much. Here, I'm going to look back on the information we've been getting, and here we are, listening all day, in some way, attitudes and references to what this information contains. I will also point out that here they have counted how many of these remain at the end of last year of unsolved cases and from the data we have been presented that there has been an act of staunch prosecution 51 prosecutions in the prosecutions, courts, as well as the most common achievement, i.e. the reach for parole, that it was actually a clear problem which has been highlighted here by our representatives. I will also say that within the judiciary there have been numerous abuses, shows the fact that I will remind all of us, that the BiH Constitutional Court has accepted almost all the allegations of the constitutionality assessment of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, as well as the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency, which have actually provided for specific investigative actions of listening, persecution, detention of some unsuspecting and non-species, so that the provisions of certain articles have been declared unconstitutional and have just referred to something that has been mentioned here in certain cases, I will not particularly bid them against the protection of a protected witness and other things. So, in any case, what we have to see every day through the provisions and views of the Constitutional Court that there is a violation of the right to a fair trial and that it is part of the systematic shortcomings in the organisation of the judiciary and in the effective exercise of their jurisdiction, i.e. jurisdiction in their area. Since I personally advocate, but here we see many, for the rule of law, for the rule of law, actually for a democratic state, a state that will guarantee every citizen protection from any will, especially protection against false reporting. We've talked about certain things here today, and I personally think that the prosecution has to process all those things that are contrary to the law, but also those who talk about that there's some crime, etc., if something like that is unfounded until it's responsible for false reporting, we can't talk about justice and the principle in which we advocate that all citizens would be equal before the law, and if we talk about it from a point of view, in some way, fundamental human rights. We advocate, among other things, for the institutions of the judicial state, which together with others, means that law enforcement agencies, especially police agencies, will guarantee a successful fight against all types of crime, particularly organised and corruption. So, for a country that will have a zero tolerance rate for all law breakers, and especially for the crimes of terrorism, organised crime, corruption, and uniform law enforcement and equality, it means, all before the law, especially in the processing of war crimes cases. In the context of the things we have heard, we have also had the opportunity to hear what has happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the past ten years, when it comes to judicial reform, we can say that a large number has been adopted, so the legislation in this area they have been regulating, both the procedural and legal areas. So, the most significant laws at this level were imposed by the High Representative, from the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, because I will repeat once again that the BiH Constitution does not know, meaning regular courts as category of judicial institution. In fact, the international community had a direct impact, not only on concrete legal solutions, but also through such formulated legal solutions, on choice and influence, i.e. on human resources when it comes to appointing these important positions in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions. The final results of these reforms were such that even the biggest, I would say, the optimists can't deny the fact that today there is one huge mistrust in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions, and above all there are many reasons, there are four separate judicial systems, state, two entity and one Brcko District, which is nonsensus at least when we talk about that procedural sense. We have heard some complaints today about different attitudes and approaches. One of the problems is also a huge backlog in the work, so the trials that take too long, and the result also have damages from the country that caused it. I too, although colleagues point out, that in these cases and the problems that fall within the judiciary there are problems concerning the processing of war crimes. Namely, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, war crimes are tried under two different laws, one of which is stricted mostly by one, and on the other, I bless most of the other people. One, so Penal Code 52 was passed in 1976 in the former Yugoslavia and another in 2003 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The SFRY law has milder penalties and has no formulation such as the "joint criminal enterprise" that literally enables and serves today to criminalise a nation. The legal precedent team is more scandalous because the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg confirmed in 2013 that war crimes must be subject to the '76 SFRJ Penal Code. the year which was worth the time of these acts, and only in exceptional cases the new law, especially what, they should all be the same before the law because they were all the same at the time of the crime. In fact, the problem is a selective approach by the Court of Justice of BiH when it comes to the application of the extended jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH, as well as the existing Court of Justice organisation where the same court is being dealt with in both the first and second stages, which we know is, of course, contrary to Protocol 7 of the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms and Article 47. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which actually provides for the right to an effective legal remedy. Then unfair or unfair national representation in the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Supreme Court, prosecutors and other judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina also, I believe, is one of the reasons for some kind of mistrust in these institutions. In view of all of the above, we must be strongly committed to the clear division of jurisdiction within the judiciary, i.e. judicial institutions at national level and with entities and strengthen, of course, regional co-operation in the area of justice, as well as the adoption of legal solutions that would actually remove these problems. In that sense, I, respecting and esteeming the suggestions submitted by my colleagues, have not suggested any of the conclusions. With many conclusions acceptable to me, I have not dared and allowed myself to go into concrete things that should contain one law, but what is in fact, in some way, and my proposal of some kind of conclusion, I will now present it only briefly in the debate, so in that sense I will say that when it comes to judicial reform, we need to adopt a new Law on the VSTV, which will provide for one, equal number of VSTV members from each constituent people and predict the proper representation of others, and a different way of selecting members of the VSTV, which would be held exclusively by the Parliamentary Assembly from those proposed by the courts and prosecutors, means taking care of the national, regional and sexual structure of members. It is also necessary for this amendment to foresee responsibility within the VSTV structure, because I do not think that we will take any step towards this institution or others we are talking about. Likewise, in the BiH Court Act, it is necessary to establish a higher or more appeal court as a special court in terms of the precise separation of the BiH Court's jurisdiction from other courts in order to in fact avoid both selectivity and any possible abuse of which we are witnessing today. Finally, and not less importantly, I would also like to stress that we need to advocate both material and financial independence for both judges and prosecutors and to define ourselves in fact as a truly independent, professional, effective judiciary so that this country as well as many other legal countries, the rule of law, and in order to rule the rule of law, could, in some ways, establish on democratic principles. [[expensive warning on time]] Thank you very much. I apologize if I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18246	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18247	Dear colleague Krišto said she advocates a zero pole against all those I quote, who do not respect and break the law. I don't have any problem with that attitude. I think that's the way 53 should be in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am asking a question here and Mrs. Krišto is one of the leaders of the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, how do you think we should implement this principled commitment that you spoke of if you first go public with this country and say you do not respect the laws of this country and yet invite citizens not to comply with legally adopted laws? It just doesn't go with each other. That is why I am going back to the beginning of my today's debate, there is no justice in the world that can correct such poor legislative and executive power as we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's where we have to look for the first cause of most of the problems in this country, and then seriously talk about all the segments of one society. Otherwise, this kind of policy isn't really going to get us anywhere. If you've had an obstruction policy for 22 years, blockades, if the problem was even a license plate, do you think in such a state that everything, uh, will work out properly? We're all paying the price of obstructions and blocks, and this is just one example.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18248	Thank you very much. Mrs. Krišto, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18249	How do you say, either correcting the wrong quote or some kind of answer to a fellow MP. I can only tell you that you are neither my conscience nor my conscience. I spoke here today as an agent and I have a responsibility to who I represent and I make clear their and their personal views. As far as my responsibilities are concerned, as you say, disrespecting certain laws, too, nor do I put myself in a position to judge such matters if they are abuses, and at least so are you. There are judicial institutions, so let them choose to work and determine in this case whether there is any responsibility for things that are being said here and which are, let's say, the result of some behavior and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18250	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18251	Here, I'm also joining my colleague Bećirović who says he needs to get away from himself first, so at least explain to those citizens who pay you here the way you bought an official vehicle past the Regulation that was established. You bought a car that's more expensive than what you're allowed to buy, for example. And also, here's a suggestion to your party boss to fire a consultant who took part in the execution of the crime scene, especially with the official vehicle of the BiH presidency, which is documented, and then you can talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18252	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18253	I don't know which colleague Denis Bećirević meant by legally passed law. I can assume, but, uh, I'm not sure it was passed legally, as he said, at least the one I think he thinks. And on the other hand, uh, did I tell you in my story, which I was telling in this report, that this is used for possible ideas of my own editing and seeing the order of the state. So, that's why I said, both these discussions and some other debates, and those laws are supposed to be made in agreement with everyone, and they can't be brought to the expense of one and then say that they're legal and that they, here, satisfy everyone. So we're not listening, we're not hearing each other, we're using every opportunity to resonate in our own way, even with reports like this. So, and said the president, so I have no reason to defend her, I know how to defend myself, so they have judicial authorities if that's what you're talking about, and I said a little while ago, so by the way, 100 marks is a criminal application, so here you go, so have the courts and let them do it. We're not protected from it either, if we're committing a criminal offence that's punishable by law, of course we have to bear sanctions too. But don't use it to come to constitutional solutions. Do you understand me? So maybe this is a big word, but that's exactly what you're doing. On all segments when we talk about anything, then you say... Well, here, we're talking about the Law of Privatization, we're talking about forming a state, we're talking about interventions in the Constitution of the Federation, we're talking about interventions in the Election Law. It's all done by someone beyond our will, and you want us to have a country that's willing all of us. So you let us have it, let's be honest, let's be honest. So let the court do its thing, I don't mind, but let's be honest, don't use it to say that, here I don't know, the system's disintegrating and we're chasing people out of this Bosnia and Herzegovina, and above all, they're the few most because they're least protected. I knew it would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18254	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18255	Thank you. Here, so I suggest to my colleagues Bećirović, one, the other, that at least at a session when we talk about the judiciary, here and when even there are people in the judiciary, it is not those who will judge, judge and assess who covered the law even though it is in the manner of their parent parties long ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18256	Thank you very much. Did Denis have, uh, two replicas? Did he have two replicas?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18257	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18258	Mr. Bećirović, you have the word of course, tell me what is not keeping the agenda? We will not allow the abuse of this institute through replicas. Go ahead, just tell me what non-restraint is. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18259	Let me get this straight, so I didn't sign up for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18260	Then what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18261	So look what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18262	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18263	So that's one. Under two, co-worker Kožul and counterpart Lovrinović did not fully adhere to the agenda, they did not even replicate what I was talking about. People were completely talking about things that no one was talking about at the session, and that should be made very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18264	Please, then, you need to be a good master so you can distinguish, therefore, these situations or argue with you here. I don't want to argue with anyone, but I can ask you as my colleagues, don't try to work the replica through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, through non-compliance with the agenda. It's a business problem, we'll deal with it, but I'm asking you to help me run this session right. We have two more registered speakers. After that, it is our turn to ask our guests if any of them want to speak, Minister of Justice, and after that we plan to finish the session, take a break for half an hour and start the next session. That's some kind of plan to keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18265	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18266	That's what I'll say when the time comes. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. It is really very difficult to say what has not already been said, but the fact is that the report, at least there was a comment and a discussion about the Report, and that the report served all of these discussions that we had the opportunity to hear. So I would repeat just a few things, or underline some things that are evident, which may arise from what could have been heard in the public, and could also be heard at press conferences by officials from the judicial system, that, for example, the pressure of policy on the judiciary is stronger than ever, and that recent research has shown that people in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not believe the judiciary. So these are things that are extremely serious and it should be an alarm for everyone in this country to pay a really serious attention to this issue. 56 However, I must also mention that the judicial reform has given us opportunities to hear at the press conference, that judicial reform has given certain results that cannot be minimized, but that reform should in any case continue. Of course, there is much here, it is underlined that many cases of high crime or crime are highly positioned officials not processed and that this is the thing that we are certainly expected to do in the future and that these things are actually as much fun as possible. The Constitutional Commission found that our judiciary was clearly corrupt. I would really watch out for the hard words or after all these difficult words that, here, and here, and I underline, and also that we had opportunities here to hear, would have to follow one really very serious activity of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm going back to this report that's written, which obviously isn't good enough or, we can say it's not good enough, but here I'm again saying it served many just as a reason to be able to speak and discuss the judiciary what they think. Because of all this, and not wanting to take up more time for those present, since much has been said, I will be free to read the SBB proposals on today's agenda. The floor, we have three conclusions, very soon it'll be realized, so I'd like some attention. So number one. The House of Representatives supports the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council in the fight against illegality, abuse and other corruption measures committed by judicial officials. Under 2. The House of Representatives calls on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to submit proposals to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for measures that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can take with the aim of strengthening the independence and capacity of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. First of all, it relates to larger budgets per item, potential legal solutions, etc. And finally three. The House of Representatives obliges the BiH Ministry of Justice to do so in the next 60 days, and I think we have heard one such proposal, but it refers to a period of 30 days, but here, no matter what happens, we suggest that it be within 60 days and that a revised report be delivered containing concrete examples of the situation in the Bosnian Herzegovina judiciary, including concrete problems, measures taken with the aim of resolving them, and a plan for further resolving them. Of course, I'm aware that here we have, as never before in the work of this high house, this many conclusions, and I just don't know how we're going to get to, uh, combine it into some reasonable conclusions that won't be, I don't know, number 30 or 40 of the proposed conclusions, which would be too much anyway. But here, thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18268	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18269	I thank the chairman. It's interesting that almost no one's ever held the agenda today. The point is the Information on the State of Justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Information. The information was not talked about for 5 minutes in total today, it was mentioned here and there, as no one was satisfied with it, and then it went through 57 VSTV. Me, it seems to me that some people didn't need that information, that it just served as an excuse just to mess with the VSTV. I now remind again that VSTV is the only one who has begun to clean up bad things in the bh judiciary and the only one who has faced negative phenomena in the domain of his jurisdiction. If it hadn't, we wouldn't even know today how bad the situation in some segments of the justice system is, we wouldn't know how many suspended chief prosecutors went into their abuses, and here, but as I remember, he's been salting our minds twice and few people have responded to it. They wouldn't know that his deputy is under investigation for the establishment of money in several cases if it wasn't for this work of the VSTV. And this same deputy was coming before UPK, and there he was salting our brains and defending his boss's insecure report, and a little who, apart from a few of us, reacted. And there's more that we don't know that's safe, but the attacks on VSTV just keep the story straight so we never know. Well, maybe that's exactly what some people are aiming at, because that's what's bringing me back to the situation two years ago when some of them started, by Mrs. Pandurević, to support suspended chief prosecutor in his efforts to challenge the access of OSCE expert and British judge Joanne Korner. And her report just brought to light all the abuses, all the incompetence and all the machinations of the suspended chief prosecutor. Now, this is exactly why these things should give VSTV support to continue with these activities, because they've already done the most to clean up the situation, as I've already said, in their ranks, because it needs to be looked at comparatively. And let's look at the comparatively who in Bosnia and Herzegovina is still cleaning up the situation in their ranks. The Council of Ministers do not, miss the laws, work worse and worse, if at all you can say they work, this Parliament, here, the legislative authority has fallen to one session a month, and even their necks, the College, is it thematic, whether regular can't save from this shame that we meet once a month. Is the BiH presidency maybe better? So all they do is share 100,000 marks with similar organizations, what they're discreetly given, and nothing more. In this year, the BiH Presidency held, to see if anyone knows, three sessions, three sessions held by the BiH Presidency in six months...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18270	Stick to the agenda, sir. I already have some serious warnings.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18271	I'm warning you that...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18272	Stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18273	I stick to the agenda, I do a comparative analysis between three pillars of government, that you don't like that in that one pillar sitting your boss isn't my problem, I'll continue. If you shut me down, you'll have a problem. Three sessions in six months, last session was 10.05. Now that's the BiH presidency, that's the third pillar. And I guess that's what VSTV meant when they said they were the brightest of those three pillars of power. That they were compared to the legislative and the executives and those as judges, and this third one is the brightest when compared like this. Well, and these three examples that I've just set, by sticking to the agenda, that's what they're showing. I suppose, Mr. Magazinović, that the VSTV didn't compare with the teachers, because in that case, I would agree that teachers are definitely a brighter example, but I think they've compared to the other two pillars of power. Now... _________(?) 58 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, here, I know. Now the main question is how can we help the justice system, that's what we need to ask here, and that's where our conclusions are going right now. Now let's go to that pillar of power, to the judicial one, to raise the funds, let's take these 300,000 discretionary KMs from the Presidency, which meet three times in six months, and give them to the judiciary, let's start with that, let's take another 300,000 discretionary KMs from the Council of Ministers' Colleges, so the chairman and his two deputies, who in these six months have not delivered us five laws, not counting those four excise laws recycled, which were neither able to defend nor defend, but are able to share that kind of money with their obedient organizations, let's give that money to the judiciary. And something else, and because of the chief prosecutor in Parliament, one of the many legitimate ideas, has it in the West, there's a lot of it in the West, but it's interesting that the club that, the SDS that didn't support the approach to the West on the right of the emergency aid championship and the firefighters want to go west just through the prosecution's election, and only after one prosecutor hasn't met their expectations or maybe some promises. Most of the time, it may be something that Bosnia and Herzegovina can bring in, but only when everyone here is starting to think west. Because as long as this Parliament chooses a second-placed Drnd, just because Mr Mehmedović offered a conclusion at the end of the session with that goal and who knows how he did it, we are not thinking west until then. We cannot choose the chief prosecutor as long as this Parliament chooses the third-placed Mufid Memija, because you can imagine that tomorrow we will get the prosecutor Memija just because someone's president wants it and has something to offer to other MPs to vote for or even to be abstentioned, and we all know that the third-placed Memija has been elected to the Board of Directors of BHRT equally thanks to those who voted for and those who have been abstentioned, because that's how the voting system works here. And when we get that kind of awareness that they're being chosen by profession, not because it's someone's president, not because something's been exchanged, when we take away the thinking that only Bošnjak or ultimately only Hrvat, or only a Srbin can be the judge's president, and you're really using that argument as an excuse to have political control over the judiciary, but only then can we even think about this option at all, but I don't think we're anywhere near that consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18275	Thank you very much. I ask the services to prepare a part of Mr. Arnaut's exposure in which he was sent to me as chairman of a particular kind of threat. I'll be clear about that when I read it in detail, and until then, Mr. Arnaut, no one can threaten me here, that you know and don't accidentally act like that anymore. The word has a respected representative, Nermina Kapetanović, not keeping the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Non-compliance with the agenda is the fact that the party heads, the work of the Council of Ministers and Parliament and the comparison of the work of these three institutions are mentioned here. It has nothing to do with the agenda. I'm surprised by the idyllic approach and the thanks Mr. Arnaut, as a legal expert, gave to the work of VSTV. I dare say that it is too, too idyllic and too beautiful to be true, and particularly guided by the fact of the European Commission's report on what happened about the effects of the 2016 judiciary work, and as I recall Mr Arnaut together as we supported this report, i.e. received it knowledge and 59 affirmatively then discussed it. Obviously, time is changing, that probably the SBB is going into opposition, but I don't think this, this doesn't look like the way Mr. Arnaut's communication so far, and it has anything to do with today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18277	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to apply, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, provisions that deny the right of discussion in the part of the discussion on the agenda point, and when the MP does not adhere to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18279	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18280	You're me, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18281	Thank you for your support, enough, I mean, it's non-restraint.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18282	Well, it's not enough, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18283	Come on, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18284	Well, don't, look, you're interrupting me right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18285	Well, come on, you had two replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18286	You have warned me in dozens of times.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18287	Come on, finish it, please. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18288	Well, here, I'll finish, warn, cut into discussion even though I was in full compliance with the agenda point. We're here discussing something that's the report and we're trying to contribute...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18289	Okay, thank you, thank you very much. 60 Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The judiciary has been dealing with all Bosnian Herzegovina public for several years. It was on the agenda thanks to the College and Mr. Bosić's insistence, and I just heard for the first time that it was all thanks to the SBB, and that it wasn't the SBB that we wouldn't have practically any of this, so I'm thinking that it was the first amoebes, so the SBB, then the paramecium. Because how else do you explain that nothing is done in this country without the SBB?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18291	Thank you. Mr. Backović, sit in your seat, sit in your seat, the representative sits in the bench. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18292	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18293	The word has a distinguished representative, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18294	Thank you. What, is a replica to you chairman. So, you said something here that absolutely doesn't stand. So, I said don't interrupt me, I stick to the agenda because I'm making a comparative approach, and because you don't like it, that's your problem, and if you shut me down, you'll have a problem. And that applies, and here I am explaining now, because the Rules of Procedure clearly states if it corrects the wrong quote or if something requires an explanation, look, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. This requires clarification. When I say you're gonna have a problem, I mean we're holding your quorum. I've been counting here all day, you know what, 22, 23, 24, it was about, including members of the College, constantly absent. I don't know, correct me if I'm wrong, but I saw today, whenever someone left the O.R., once, I may be among the only ones who informed you that I was leaving the O.R. So that's what this was about, and I'm also calling on the service to prepare a stenogram, to deliver both to me and the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18295	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Mirsad Đonlagić, the first of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18296	Well, I would refer to this charming colleague of ours, Novaković, who is trying to entertain this House with his own actions, that I find that very incorrect. All right, his knowledge of biology, I don't want to, uh, underestimate it, but I also think that a colleague, Novaković, should have been reminded of his very, very incorrect performance. If he had anything to comment on my discussion and some of my suggestions, why he didn't look back and tell me, 61 why he referred it to the SBB the way he directed, which absolutely offends the dignity of the MPs sitting in this room. Not mine, but his and all of us, because he said it, I didn't say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18297	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate when it comes to MPs. So, I repeat, I conclude the debate when it comes to MPs. I give the word to the guests, who wants to speak from the guests? Mr. Tegeltija, president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18298	Mr. Chairman, working presidency, gentlemen of MPs, MPs, the Honorable President of the Council of Ministers, ministers. First of all, I would like to welcome you on my personal behalf and on behalf of the members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and on behalf of the people present today from the judiciary at this session. I must say that we have been here patiently listening to these criticisms, some reference to the work of the judiciary with the intention of extracting from them those well-intentioned criticisms that will help us improve the work of the area we belong to. Niko of us in the judiciary ever said that the justice system is perfect, that it's perfect, that there's not much room for improvement. Of course, like any system, it is very similar to being repaired, especially in a country such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has this complex constitutional structure and this complex constitutional structure and strict requirements, not only these professional but also nationalally, quite embody the opus of the work of the regulatory body, in this case the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in carrying out their duties. There were all kinds of discussions here, there were those, I'd say, populist ones, we're used to, there were really constructive ones, there were those who proposed individual solutions. I didn't get any of these conclusions today, so I can't even make a statement about them. I'm going to draw attention to a few things that I have left in my memory, and I'm going to apologize in advance to everyone whose question and possible objections I won't be able to look back on at this occasion because I simply have them for the short time I have here after this pay phone, that's because it's impossible. First of all, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH itself. It is the regulatory body at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is responsible for the appointment of judges and prosecutors, its composition is 2/3, judges and prosecutors, 2/3 of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council are elected by judges and prosecutors. It's a model that exists identical in Italy. Therefore, there are different models of these regulatory bodies in Europe, one of them being in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is the highest degree, possibly the degree of independence of such a judicial body as it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina. All these ideas about the High Court and Prosecutorial Council reform are not new. I have been in the judiciary, this reformed since 2004, and the story of judicial reform has not started with my mandate in this Council or yours in these parliamentary benches. It's been going on since 2004, and it's always been a story of how things don't work out, how they need to be fixed and how they have to be improved. And there have been good on that road, from 2003 to today, and good and bad moves, and good and bad things that have been happening and we have the results of what we have. In some areas we have good results, they should not be underestimated, in some areas that we ourselves say are such, we do not still have satisfactory results for us at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which is the primary topic on which this conference is being led, which is the fight against corruption and organised crime. We're still not satisfied here and we're taking those measures that are in our power to fix this situation, but if someone thinks it's going to happen fast, and if someone thinks it's only going to happen to the justice moves, it's a big mistake, it's impossible. Corruption in society is a systemic problem, and the system problem must be solved by systemic change, not just one segment of government, but all segments, segments of government in society. The pressure on the court that I have often talked about and spoken about by members of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which I must, here, look back. I'm sorry that I've heard these benches, too, look back at the individual cases that are being conducted in certain judicial institutions. I also ask the representatives of these benches and the media who listen to this debate that what the MPs have said about individual items do not take for granted the truth, because it is unfinished matters. That MP, the politician who sits in these benches and uses this pay phone to specifically influence, to talk about a case that lasts and is not finished, puts direct political pressure on that court. There is no object in which one party should be favored, even if it is a state. The parties are equal to the court and that representative of the political authority who, from the position of political power represented by one party in the dispute, was also the state, makes political pressure on the judiciary. I'm asking you not to do this, because I can't qualify it differently but as a pressure on the judiciary. In any case, I hope that the conclusions that will arise from this debate will be those that will help us, not that will cement some valid delusions about the fact that the judiciary is doing nothing. Why did I say, here, more than once, that justice is the best part of society? Just because Mr. Arnaut mentioned that the only system within these three authorities that actively applies self-control mechanisms, which in this year alone, in this year alone, has suspended nine of its members, judges and prosecutors, who in the past year and this year had the highest number of disciplinary procedures with a large number of resolutions of judicial functions, is exactly the judicial system. A system that's willing to deal with problems inside itself, that's willing to admit them and say we have a problem. I've been telling this story about judicial reform since 2004, and then when we bring things to the surface, if at some point they were putting them under the carpet, and we've been taking them out for two, three years and we've been actively talking about them and we're fighting them, we're looking for possible solutions, then of course when you take them to the surface to make them look like some kind of chaos, that something is happening that's completely unpredictable. However, if you never bring them to the surface, you will never be able to begin solving them. We are prepared, this assembly of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, to face these problems and engage actively. This, of course, produces a variety of contradictions and different interpretations both in politicians, and Bog also in citizens, who often do not understand it as a struggle against it, but as some kind of chaos, but unfortunately another way, other than disclosure, is gone. And one more thing I have to say, which you need to know, about judicial reform, is an active process led by the European Commission, first of all, through three mechanisms. One of them is a structural dialogue, the other are... seminars, and the other are... processes in which, in the context of Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the European Union, the Bosnian-Herzegovian judicial system is adapted to the standards of the European Union in the context of changes in fundamental laws and system laws, including the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council, so please do not leave this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-0.u18299	Thank you. 63 So, the College has received a lot of conclusions, the proposals of conclusions, it is difficult now, many conclusions are mutually opposed, some are identical, we have decided to propose to you, therefore, this is a proposal from the College, that until the next session of the College, and the College, and the Expansive College where representatives of all political parties, review these conclusions, try to make a sublime proposal of conclusions about which Parliament, as a proposal from the College and the Enlargement College, would not exclude the possibility of any agent who is unsatisfactory to insist on their conclusions and then, at the next session, to declare on this sublime of conclusions, sublimated conclusions. Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote. So 26 votes for, 2 against, 7 abstentions. A sufficient ethnic majority of both entities. I conclude that we have concluded that all the proposed conclusions during today's session will be reviewed by the College of the House of Representatives and the Extended College of the House of Representatives, to try to combine the conclusions and to propose the united, sublimed conclusions for the next House session, if, therefore, it does not include the right of any representative who considers that its conclusion should be the subject of the vote, that this should be the subject of the vote, as well as in case we fail to propose a summary of the conclusions, then we will declare each of these conclusions. That's it, thank you. Now I'm giving, in fact, ending this one, declaring that the 47th session is over, and 48th session is over. It starts at 3:15. Thank you very much. Session completed at 14:50 p.m.
