ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17014	Please take your seats. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 44th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Denis Zvizdić and BiH Minister of Communications and Transport Ismir Jusko delivered a notice on the inability to attend the session due to earlier commitments. The absence was justified by MP Mirsad Mešić, and the delay was announced by MP Damir Bećirović. According to the Service's information, 28 representatives are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in that order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the honourable representative, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17015	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't see the Council of Ministers chairman here again today, and here I am renewing this issue for the fifth time. Now I'm asking myself if there's any point in asking more questions. Yesterday I was with the secretary who informed me that this question was left, for the fifth time coming back, this, again in procedure, we again agreed that we had it on the agenda today, but I don't know who from the Council of Ministers will answer my question. So the question is: What is the Council of Ministers, has anything done in this mandate, has it considered anything, if when and what are the conclusions of the debate, and has there been any plan to prevent people from leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially young people? 2 I have endured this many times before. We all know that's one of the most important problems we have in the country. About a debate I had three months ago we received information that every fifth bench in schools in the last three years is empty, 27,000 school students are less in primary and secondary schools compared to three years ago. So whoever can't see what this problem is in the country, he really doesn't deserve to represent institutions and be in important places. If, after five times, we ask that this issue be considered here, that this issue is being addressed by the institution, by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government, we cannot have an answer here at the session... we can properly and openly discuss then I really wonder where all this is going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will continue to insist that I get an answer from the first man of the Council of Ministers, therefore, and that, of course, also from you who are the College of the House of Representatives that you finally understand how important it is to accept the initiative I have already endured, which is that this issue is being discussed in Parliament. So I think it's necessary to do that. Today you have here, here's another time, with some of the acrobatics that are being made We're back in the emergency procedure of the Excise Act. [[Employee is warned on time]] We do not have five requests to discuss the departure of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17016	Thank you, Mr. Šepić. Is there from the Council, Mr Adil Osmanović, the minister of civil affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17017	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs. Of course, the answer to the question raised by the honourable MP, Šepić, requires a broader engagement with the constitutionally competent ministries of canton and entity, but I will tell you that at its 71st session, held on 31.08.2016, the Council of Ministers discussed and adopted a Plan of Guidelines for Labour Market Policy and Active Employment Measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. Under the provisions of the Law on the BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, the Agency, in co-operation with the Federal Employment Service of the Federation of BiH, the Ministry of Employment of the Republic of Serbia and the Brcko District of BiH, has drawn up a proposal for an annual plan and guidelines for labour market policies and active employment measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are guidelines for labour market policies and active employment measures planned by competent entity institutions in the field of employment at an annual level. Direct competencies in the field of employment, including youth employment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have competent authorities, entity organisations and the Brcko District of BiH. When it comes to youth unemployment, the main reason for unemployment is the insufficient number of jobs, i.e. an economic situation that does not create a sufficient number of new jobs and an unfair position for young people without work experience. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs participated in the implementation of the Youth Employment Project. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs also participates in the development of the Sectoral Plan of the Document Competitiveness and Innovation for IPA II (2016-2017) funds where significant financial support is planned for youth employment in support of small and medium-sized enterprises in the competitiveness and innovation sectors. The BiH Agency for Labour and Employment, in co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and employment services, is carrying out activities aimed at the young population in order to achieve youth activation and gain labour experience on the labour market. Thus, institutions and employment services in Bosnia and Herzegovina carry out youth employment programmes each year and are co-financed annually through these programmes by the co-financing of employment, the self-employment of about 2,000 young people on unemployment records. Ministry launched activities to develop a new Employment Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2017-2020, with Republika Srpska institutions waiting the coordination mechanism after which they plan to engage in the creation of the mentioned document, which further makes it difficult to work in this area. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17018	Thank you, Minister. Comment, Mr. Šepić, do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17019	So I can take the chair, so very briefly. So once again, I really ask the institutions to engage in concrete action on this matter. So, you don't have to run from the Council of Ministers to call a session, to do a thematic session on people leaving this country, so to call the authorities, you have the coordination of education ministers, you have health care, you have various sectors. It is also possible to meet the prime ministers, chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, prime ministers, uh, all the prime ministers at all levels, entity, cantonal, there is room for something to act, to do something concrete, so not only is the story going to transfer jurisdiction to the one, it's the other one. I come from Krajina where the main question is – where you decide that we don't have to wait from two to three hours across the border, so many columns, so many people leaving the country. And now imagine, therefore, that one MP in Parliament is five times asking the institutions to put it on the agenda and to do what is called a single answer, then you can imagine in general what we are in as a society. So I ask you in that sense, therefore, that the Council of Ministers Make that session, on the other hand, that Parliament, on one of the next, as it is called, plans a thematic session on the emigration of people from Bosnia and Herzegovina [[Employee is warned on time]] with proposals and conclusions to be prepared by the BiH Council of Ministers by then. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17020	Thank you, Mr. Šepić. We're moving on to the esteemed representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17021	I thank the chairman. I ask the question of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Why has the Foreign Ministry not yet adopted the Regulation on the evaluation of the work of the ambassadors and other international representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose adoption by the Foreign Ministry is prescribed by the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint ambassadors and other international representatives from March 2013? You heard right, since March 2013, it's an obligation. 4 I have been asking this question minors since the start of the current foreign minister's mandate. I first set it up in May 2015, and then I got the answer, probably someone thought it was nice, interesting, because they wrote this – starting with the legal responsibility and responsibilities that the BiH Ministry has in the procedures of appointment of ambassadors, etc., then Foreign Minister, Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija, appreciated this approach... from the aspect of the interest and needs of the BiH Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we appreciate that the election of the new BiH presidency and the appointment of the new foreign minister has removed personal obstacles and created preconditions that, in co-operation with the offices of BiH presidency members, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in a transparent and quality way to prepare and bring forward those regulations. Then they alluded to some alleged conflict between Mr Komšić and Mr Lagumdžija. But now more time has passed in the mandate of the new BiH presidency and the new foreign minister and the rules have not yet been adopted, so I asked the minister – whether he is now facing some personal obstacles, as he thought likablely, two years ago described the previous meetings of the BiH presidency and the former foreign minister. And here's two years he refuses, this is the fifth time I've asked this same question in two years and he refuses to answer, and I can see he's not here. And as my colleague from the Karamatić House said, there are some indications that someone once saw him in this building but still those indications have not been confirmed. And the House of Peoples has therefore formed a commission to examine the state of foreign policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think the House of Representatives, and it is up to the College to do so, to form the same commission since this House is appointed by ministers, and this House should also address the issue of work and responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign ministers. I insist, in accordance with my Rules of Procedure, that I receive an oral response to the next Sessions. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17022	Thank you. Do we have the Council of Ministers? So, the minister delivered a reply in writing, but here we are asked to repeat this at the next session when the minister is present.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17023	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17024	All right, all right. So please leave this for the next session when the minister arrives. Let's move on, I'm giving my word to Honorary Representative Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17025	I thank the chairman. I want to welcome you all and wish you a successful session today. I asked the BiH Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. In November 2013, Bosnia and Herzegovina ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family called the Istanbul Convention. It is the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the 5th area. The BiH Council of Ministers also adopted the Framework Strategy for the Implementation of the Istanbul Convention from 2015 to 2018, which we did as the first country in the region. Chapter VIII of the Convention provides for the establishment of a monitoring mechanism for the implementation of this Convention or GREVIO Committee. It is composed of independent experts from the states of signatories to the Convention, but Bosnia and Herzegovina has not given its representative to date. Please answer me – Why has the nomination procedure for this significant post in the Council of Europe not been completed yet, and when do you think this procedure will be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17026	Thank you. Dear Minister of Human Rights, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17027	Dear members of the College, respected representatives of the Parlament House of Representatives. In response to your question, I can only say that the process of nominating candidates from Bosnia and Herzegovina for a group of experts to combat violence against women and violence in the family, or GREVIO, is carried out by the BiH presidency and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs in accordance with its powers. Otherwise, as you said, Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have a member in the GREVIO Committee, although among the first countries to sign and ratify the Istanbul Convention, it also adopted a strategy for its implementation. We therefore understand your question regarding the completion of the process of nominating candidates from Bosnia and Herzegovina to this Committee, which was launched half last year. At this point, we can only tell you that we have forwarded your question to the BiH presidency and we expect that when we get an answer from the BiH Presidency, we will give you an answer in writing to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17028	Thank you, Minister. Any comments?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17029	Of course there is. I think this issue is very important and it is unacceptable that we do not have confirmation from the BiH presidency for appointing such a function for almost a year and a half. I know, I know, I know the fact that there was one and another competition, etc., etc., but that we can't name one person, an independent person, here I don't know who he is, and I don't care who he is at all, but in such a significant organization that we can't name anyone that I don't understand. And on the other hand, I must remind you that GREVIO will be monitoring the implementation of the Istanbul Convention in Bosnia and Herzegovina this year. So for those reasons, it's important that we do this. Thank you very much, and I would like to ask you again in writing for this very report that we will have, that is, the monitoring we will have this year. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17030	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17031	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you that at the end of last year, I proposed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to adopt an initiative obliging the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare within three months a proposal to amend and supplement the BiH Constitution to ensure full and consistent application, implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc, and, of course, through the debate, we made it clear that the package should also implement Zornić's verdict and the 2016 ruling of Pilav. Now I would like to say, therefore, that this is the official decision of the BiH Parliament, is no longer an individual initiative of any MP. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. Since this deadline has expired – Why do we still not have this proposal on the parliamentary benches, that is, why is Parliament's decision still not being implemented? I am particularly asking because I believe that there are no single-national issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as some want to present it, but that everything in Bosnia and Herzegovina that you do must be counted fully equal to all its peoples and citizens, and in particular we should focus on the European Court of Human Rights rulings. In that sense, I am publicly asking the Council of Ministers of BiH – was this point on the agenda at all, whether it had taken any kind of approach to the realization of this very important decision by Parliament and In the end, what is waiting is that MPs don't get it on the parliamentary benches, with some announcing that they want to submit some proposals in part, and that they are deaf to what is now the official and valid conclusion of the BiH Parliament. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17032	Thank you. Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers? Then prepare for the next session. Let's move on, word I give...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17033	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17034	I don't know what you'd like to comment on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17035	Let me use my two minutes as we've done before. The fact that there is no person who is asked the question, although we do not know why it is not there, is the problem of the person and the Council of Ministers of BiH. If they had taken a serious approach, they would have made a deal with each other, so at least someone would have given an answer as a substitute. Since there's no course in commenting here, there's some things to underline. Although we could not use, here in my case, our business right to get an answer, at least in this comment I can now ask that within seven days, if he cannot orally, in written form, an answer to this question is delivered. In the event that it is not delivered, I reserve the right to place it again publicly as well as in other ways, in accordance with the 7 provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, with a very important note to draw attention from both the parliamentary benches and the BiH Council of Ministers and all other competent authorities that the 2009 judgment of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac must be carried out as a priority in this country, which concerns the case, the realization of the verdict being carried out. It refers to the 2014 Zornić case and the judgment in the case of Pilav, which was voted by the European Court of Justice in 2016. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17036	Thank you. I give my word to honourable representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17037	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests. A very short one question from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Given that a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was under way, and I have repeatedly asked the question, to remind the last one I asked at the 31st session of the House of Representatives held on 15.06.'16. year, and I received a reply from the Council of Ministers of BiH, which adopted the conclusion at its 19th session, from 20.08.'15. in the year, and tasked the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to renew the talks at the highest level on the issue concerning the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia in the period '91-'95. years and they've been fired from work. The issue affects about 50,000 people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided me with an answer saying that these meetings discussed the issue as one of the outstanding issues and that it was commonly found that a joint session of the Government of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH could be an opportunity to look at the modality of resolving certain open issues. Given that the preparation for this kind of meeting is under way, and that I suppose the resolution ministries are already discussing this issue, I want to ask this question in time so that simply this open issue can be found at a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and it is of interest to a large number of residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is all the rights stemming from the working legal status and the right to do so. So a well-known question, and I have asked it many times, so I am taking the opportunity to ask the question in time that this issue is on the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17038	Thank you. On behalf of the Council of Ministers of Civil Affairs, Mr Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17039	Of course, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has proposed to discuss on the agenda of a joint session of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to address the issue of working legal and social status of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who were employed in the Republic of Croatia and fired from work in 1991-1995. The act of the General Secretariat of the BiH Council of Ministers No. 02.07-1-3202-4/16, of 23.03.2017, informed 8 that our proposal was included in the list of priority issues to be discussed at the mentioned session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17040	Thank you very much. A comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17041	It's a very brief comment. The expectations, therefore, from this session are because simply after '95. It's been many years. The question arises whether some of those who have rights on this basis will ever have the opportunity to regulate their rights. So once again, I would, uh, thank you for the activities you've been leading, and I expect to further include the BiH Foreign Ministry so that this activity, of course within the Council of Ministers, will be brought to an end. I sincerely hope that the solution will be found, given that this open issue has gained priority status in the talks of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17042	Thank you. I give my word to distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17043	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, deputy, colleague and colleague representatives and everyone else present in the O.R. My question was to be addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić. He's not here, but I'm going to ask a question, so possibly if someone wants the BiH Council to answer, if it's not a problem. The question should have been – is it more important to him to the law or to Bakir Izetbegović? I'll explain: BiH Presidency, I know, Mr. Sarajlić, it's a difficult question but let me explain. The BiH presidency's conclusion says that in order to fully comply with constitutional standards and relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court, the relevant decisions, so some decisions, are required by the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, Minister Osmanović, to contact directly the competent cantonal ministries without the intervention of institutions at the Federation level of BiH, it is international agreements. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts does not mention cantons in any place. Now, it is clear that the BiH presidency's urgency in this mandate to make a state out of the canton, but until now it has not been clear that they consider themselves all-powerful to change the law, not to respect Parliament, because if they want to change the law and make a new procedure, then it is logical to propose amendments and supplement, the law changes, and then it is done by law, not by conclusion. This is one of the innovations that the BiH presidency is introducing to implement the Constitutional Court's ruling in conclusion. It's a great idea, we now have a way to implement a huge number of judgments, we've concluded that we're going to implement them. That nine of them are subject to the principles of the state - that's me, the state car, that's my car, and so on, that's me, that's me, that's me, that's me, that's my car, that's me, that's me, that's me, that's me, that's me, that's me, that's me, but that it has gone this far to change the law and order the State Minister not to respect that same law this is still a little too much [[Employee is warned on time]] So my question should have been – Does the BiH Council of Ministers respect the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts or the conclusion of the BiH Presidency that is contrary to this Law? [[Employee is warned on time]] I wouldn't put Minister Osmanović in an awkward position to answer, but if he wants to, here's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17044	Thank you very much. They will make their own decision whether they will answer and who will answer, they know that order. I ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers if there is an answer prepared for this question, is there anyone outside the Council of Ministers who will answer? Thank you very much. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17045	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17046	Yes, here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17047	I think it's a very important question, because this is now becoming a bit of a practice. The BiH presidency's conclusion, signed by Mr Bakir Izetbegović, was reached on 27 June 2016. As with many other conclusions and decisions of the BiH presidency, we find out almost a year later. I believe that the non-transparency on the work of the institutions must be interrupted and that we must not learn from the towers that the BiH Council of Ministers has been expelled from the Coordination Mechanism by two federal ministries, that the BiH Presidency broke the Framework Agreement for Peace a year ago, to end the laws, etc. I call on Parliament to protect its integrity and not to allow anyone in any way to violate the laws that we are adopting, and I remain in search of an answer to the question – Does the Council of Ministers of BiH respect the law or conclusion of the BiH presidency that is opposed to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17048	Thank you very much. So, the services should respect procedures in these situations, knowing what is in the Rules of Procedure when no answer is received at the session itself. I am now giving my word to the esteemed representative Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17049	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. My question concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the World Trade Organisation and is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So – At what stage is the accession process of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the World Trade Organisation, have bilateral negotiations on market access with the United States, Ukraine, the Russian Federation and Brazil been completed, have there been any shortcomings in domestic legislation insisted on by the Secretariat and individual members of the World Trade Organisation, these are laws at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, entity and Brcko District? You can read the explanation certainly because I delivered it in writing, but here, I would only remind you that the report to the BiH Council of Ministers on the procedure, the procedures of Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the World Trade Organisation in March 2016 contained one plan of activities based on which, based on which this approach should be, this process of joining the World Trade Organisation is in the final phase. However, I have not been able to touch or get the information they are talking about, so I am therefore asking this parliamentary question. Given the two-year stalemate in all activities of joining Bosnia and Herzegovina in the World Trade Organisation, it was necessary to re-consolidate previously prescribed protocols and end those that were not completed in the meantime. It is also planned to draw up a draft report from the World Trade Organisation's Working Group negotiating Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession and to revise a legislative action plan to be submitted to the World Trade Organisation Secretariat. In addition to the problems in bilateral negotiations with members of the World Trade Organisation, there are a number of problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina concerning the alignment of our domestic legislation with the demands of the World Trade Organisation, which the working group imposes on Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is in the plan, submitted by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to the BiH Council of Ministers, is defined and are likely to be instructed towards entity level, entity levels and Brcko District. But given the obvious difficulties in bringing legal solutions into line at the state and entity level, I fear that we will make these bilateral negotiations much faster and easier, rather than end the domestic legislation. Membership in the World Trade Organisation is one message to investors, foreign investors that Bosnia and Herzegovina's market, in a way, stable and certainly a good message to keep in mind when it comes to these processes. [[Embassy is warned on time]] I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17050	Thank you very much. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17051	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear Members of the United States may only be at the beginning to say that it is practically three questions, so I hope to have at least a little over this time of two minutes. At the beginning, I would say that, that negotiations for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the WTO are in the final phase, that the greatest progress has been made in 2013, when, and so far, 12 rounds of negotiations have been held and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been placed in the country as a priority for membership in the World Trade Organisation. But I must point out, even in mid-2015, in the negotiations on market accession that the Russian Federation had also included very extensive requirements regarding the sought-out customs concessions and access to the market for services, which made it even more difficult to conclude negotiations, since we did not end those negotiations with Ukraine, Brazil and the United States. The Russian Federation and Ukraine have remained in the framework of bilateral negotiations under a very broad 11 requirements that far exceed the interests and opportunities of their economies, and on the other hand, Bosnia and Herzegovina is asked to open the market a lot, meaning fully, which means, in practice, a lot of opening of the market for all members of the World Trade Organisation. For December 2017, as I assume you know, the next ministerial conference in Argentina is scheduled every two years, and it is practice to receive new members at the time of its maintenance in this Organization. At the moment Bosnia and Herzegovina in the WTO Secretariat is a figure of one of the most serious members to join this Organisation. When it comes to legislation, you've talked a little bit about it, I'm going to refer to only two key laws, or documents. The adoption of amendments to the Internal Trade Act in the Federation of BiH is in the final phase, we know what the government and both at home did when it came to the draft, a public debate was held which was concluded in early April and is expected, at least, that information that I have, that this part of the activity is over. The UPP Convention was also at this Parliament, the Council of Ministers of BiH passed, both at the conclusion of 7 April 2017, agreed on ratification of the Convention and we can believe that, when it comes to the UPP Convention, that this part of the activity has been completed. Bilateral negotiations with the United States ended in September 2013, but I would like to point out that within the last bilateral meeting recently in Geneva, the United States has made several further remarks on legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is about issues of missing sublaws in the country in the area of GMOs and bans on imports of pig and beef in whose production retopamine, i.e. so on. growth hormones. These open issues have not been forwarded by the US to the WTO Working Group through the WTO Secretariat, so it is uncertain at this moment whether the preconditions for the signing of the bilateral protocol by the two parties will be extended to the above-mentioned requirements. It's uncertain, and it's possible that the U.S. might give up after our argument. There was no progress in negotiations with the Russian Federation in the previous year. As the Russian Federation has known, Bosnia and Herzegovina has submitted very broad demands that far exceed its export opportunities, as well as its economy's interests and cover nearly 6,000 tariff lines. Negotiations with Ukraine have made adequate progress in the last year, however, negotiations for around 1,300 products of which 600 in the field of agrarians are still open. Meanwhile in Brussels in February 2017, a meeting was held with representatives of the European Commission, where negotiations with the Russian Federation and Ukraine were agreed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In this context, the modalities were agreed to reactivate bilateral negotiations with the two countries mentioned, and, as a result, new... offers for goods services were delivered to the Russian Federation and Ukraine at the end of March, rather favourable. The remaining outstanding issues are, therefore, reduced when it comes to Brazil on only a few tariff lines, and it concerns frozen chicken and pig meat and negotiations with Brazil for the coming weeks. As in the case of the Russian Federation and Ukraine, a new revised bid was delivered to Brazil at the end of March 2017 and we are expected to complete quickly and we can believe that this part of the job is finished with Brazil. Information, i.e. the answer with much more details, will be delivered in writing. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17052	Thank you, Minister. Dear Representative Beganović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17053	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'm this report that... The BiH Council of Ministers read, and a lot of information that you presented today was given in the report, but finally it was from March last year, I found it interesting to hear what happened in the meantime, whether any of these processes ended. I, too, sincerely hope that we will be able to join the World Trade Organisation in Argentina in December of this year or 2017. I'd like a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17054	Thank you. I give the word to the honourable representative Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17055	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present, not to list them, in this room. I ask my question to the BiH Council of Ministers, Finance Minister, Foreign Trade Minister, BiH Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, the Central Bank of BiH and the BiH presidency. Given the constant repetition of the need to provide conditions for a larger inflow of foreign investment – is it known to the above bodies and institutions how much foreign investors have, under alleged signs, been in a form of untaxable profits since the day they invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina's possible capital, drawn total funds from Bosnia and Herzegovina? Not wanting to pollemize here and waiting for an answer I will only specify some examples, Slovenian “Tush”, “Hydrija linden”, SCT, all foreign banks, commercial companies, companies that participated in road construction, consulting firms, consulting firms, audit houses, insurance houses, etc. Here I could also list the Kuwaiti Investment Organisation, those who took SOKO-Mostar, "Vaso Miskin Black" in Sarajevo, BIRAČ-Zvornik, BOSKA, GP Bosnia, GP Vranica, ŠIPAD, full GP Put, "Hydrogradnja", participation of "Delta real estate" in the company's devastation and so on. I ask that this question, seriously address this issue because I have made a list of over 400 foreign investors who were formally founded with only 2,000, and then credits, under alleged signs, domicile banks, banks from their countries operating here, have achieved enormous profits and disappeared from these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17056	Thank you. Do we, therefore, have, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, so all of the Council of Ministers, a respected foreign trade and economic relations minister with abroad, Mr Mirko Šarović. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17057	Thank you. Since this is indeed a very complex issue that we have received this morning, the proposer himself said how complex this question is, it is not time-limited, I suggest that this agreement be delivered after a complete analysis in writing, because they really have to contact and give answers to more institutions, not just those that are listed, but also some others. I think that's correct and yes, yes, I think we'll give the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17058	Thank you, Minister. Honorable commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17059	I understand, Minister, this is a very complex problem, but just as a prelude to having it, to have it, and there's Minister Bevanda who can deny me or say that I'm right, the total investment in the purchase of banks, banks, is less than a year's profits made by these banks in our premises. So, less than a year old, and those were all domestic banks. In total, the pay traffic that we have abolished, it has not been abolished by Croatia, it has not been abolished by Serbia, it has not been abolished by Montenegro, it has not been abolished by Macedonia, it has not been abolished by Slovenia, but we have only been smart and we have only abolished, only on commissions in transactions, do not forget how much we should invest on highways annually, only as a data if you do not have it, because there are transactions of citizens. Next, you forget how much money the Lithuanians have taken to the chooser and nobody starts in this country, what's going on with rafinerija and what's the loss, who's going to cover it tomorrow, what country? You forget that SOKO-Mostar, we like to play here with floscula aggressors, didn't enter the aggressor and didn't take the equipment from SOKO-Mostar, but there are no equipment in Sokolo and we just happen to find out where it is in Croatia. How is that possible? Complete "SHIK" is privatised, signed contracts to hire around 600 workers, today there are no workers and it serves as warehouses, as warehouses [[Employee is warned on time]] KIA bought for one brand of Željezar, sold for 30 million, and invested in reconstruction, in the reconstruction of skyscrapers of about 12 million. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17060	Thank you, sir... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17061	To this day, four times you've drawn a profit. And so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17062	Thank you, Mr. Backović. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17063	I thank Mr. Chairman and welcome all present in the hall. 14 And so, I wanted to ask the question of the Minister of Justice, namely, how much I was informed about certain innovation activities or what it is called, so the 2003 trial strategy for war crimes, I wanted to ask one question and I would like to receive an answer, and that is to say - I would like to hear how many judgments have been handed down by the Court of Justice of BiH on the basis of the provisions of the BiH Criminal Law for the crimes committed during the war proceedings, and after the European Court's ruling in Strasbourg in the McTouf-Damjanovic case against Bosnia and Herzegovina since 18 July 2013? When are these charges filed in such cases and what is the national structure of those convicted in such cases on the basis of what I have already said? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17064	Thank you. Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Josip Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17065	Thank you, Your Honor. Members of the College, distinguished MPs, MPs, Council of Ministers colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The BiH Justice Ministry sent the same message to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court immediately upon receipt of the question. The prosecution submitted the following information: the number of charges brought between 18.07.2013 and 31.12.2016 under the BiH Criminal Law for war crimes cases in 2013 – 14 cases against 30 persons, 2014 – 48 cases against 103 persons, 2015 – 46 cases against 109 persons and 2016 – 35 cases against 106 persons. According to the data provided by the Court of Justice of BiH, the Court concluded on the basis of the Penal Code of BiH on 18 April this year, a total of 59 convictions on the crime against humanity referred to in Article 172. The BiH Penal Code, 9 war crimes convictions against the civilian population of Article 173. The penal code of BiH. In the same period, by applying the argument from Maktouf and Damjanović, and following the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, by applying the SFRJ Penal Code, the Court passed 63 war crimes sentences against the civilian population. It is worth noting that the penalties for those crimes prescribed by the 2003 Penal Code of BiH range from 10 to 45 years, and according to the SFRJ Penal Code, the maximum penalty that can be imposed is 20 years. The BiH court, following the ruling of Maktouf and Damjanović, followed the term of the verdict, and following the BiH Penal Code, imposed sentences that are not more than 20 years old, thus sticking to the legal maximum in the SFRJ Penal Code. The exception to that is several convictions made exclusively for a crime against humanity which is not intended as a criminal offence under the SFRJ Penal Code. More penalties have been imposed in these cases, as due to the overall circumstances of the specific case and the criminal amount, according to the judicial councils, this was legal and fair. Those data relate to first-degree, second-degree and third-degree judgments. The court also indicated that it does not keep records of the national structure of the convicted, nor does it keep records of the date of the charges brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17066	Thank you. Honorable representative, commentary. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17067	I thank you, therefore, for your answer. If he's not keeping records, he could've collected it, so I don't know what kind of work he's doing, right? But here, I'd like to get this answer in writing so I'll see, therefore, from its full content as far as I can go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17068	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year, in September of this month, I asked a parliamentary question in written form to the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was reported – which activities were conducted in 2016, what was done, and at which stage was the implementation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 21st session of the House of Representatives, on 10.12.2015, which was tasked by the Council of Ministers to initiate the procedure for amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings in order to re-ategorise the permanent border crossing for the border traffic of Tržačka Rastela – Kordunski Leskovac in the border crossing for international road traffic of passengers? Then in November of last year, also in writing, I again asked the State Commission for Integrated Border Management to provide me with a response, calling for deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure. Since I have not received an answer today, I have decided to ask the oral question to the State Commission – Why are they not responding, what is the problem, and the public needs to know, the information at which stage is the realisation of the initiative on the retegorisation of the border crossing of tržački Raštel? It is unacceptable that we MPs cannot, even after seven months, get information about such important issues that unfortunately have not been resolved for more than 10 years. More than 10 years are required to resolve a several-hour wait at the border crossing in northwestern Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the initiatives proposed by us MPs and adopted by this distinguished House will not be realised because the executive authority does not care or care what we adopt, then it is the justification of this parliamentary activity that is prescribed by our Rules of Procedure and which we have the right to do. To preserve the authority and integrity of this respected House, I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to take care of the conclusions and initiatives adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17070	Thank you. On behalf of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Zvonimir Kutleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17071	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. 16 Dear Sir, MP Emrić, the answer to your question which was raised 21st of last year by the Council of Ministers of BiH, on a proposal from the Directorate for Irregular Taxation, was found at a session held on 16.11.2016 and was forwarded to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly on 17.11. So immediately the next day, I checked it out, asking that this answer be delivered to you. If I were to read that answer now, I couldn't fit in with the Rules of Procedure for the time being, so I don't think there's any need for that, so I'm going to give you that answer here, so I'm going to give you a copy now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17072	Thank you. Honorable representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17073	Of course that I received the answers that you stated, however, the Directorate for Direct Taxation referred me as MPs to the fact that they were not in charge of re-tegorisation and to the question that I should forward my question to the State Commission for Integrated Management of the Borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I did. And I also have clear powers, but if we are asking the BiH Council of Ministers, then the Council of Ministers should know that all those committees they appoint should be controlled, that is, to check whether they meet their obligations in due time. I therefore reiterated the question to the State Commission and then again ured towards the State Commission. I didn't get any answers from the State Commission. And that's why I want to remind once again of the importance of resolving this issue and I hope to get an answer by the next session. I am interested in what stage of the retegorisation process differs from the transactions conducted by the Directorate for indirect taxation on the equipment of border crossings. I will not be tired of asking questions and this issue is too important for the UN-San canton and the northwestern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is most important for a large number of our citizens who have been waiting for hours to cross the state border. And the last holiday was an opportunity to see kilometers of columns and several hours of waiting at the border crossings in the Great Claudium where our citizens no longer have the patience to resolve this issue and no one can explain to them why we are so passive and why this issue cannot be resolved even after more than 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17074	Thank you. This is how we ended this part of today's session. We're moving on to the agenda now. As regards the addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out that the following items are removed from the agenda: Point 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, from 10.03.2017 (first reading), at the request of the Commission for Transport and Communications. 17 Point 20. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for making legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No 01,02-02-4- 566/17, of 22.02.2017, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. At the request of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, the following points are deleted: point 23. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Educational and Scientific Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, material number: 01,02-05-2-831/17, since 27.03.2017. Point 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on international road transport of passengers and cargo, material No 01,02-05-2-967/17, since 10.04.2017. Point 9 which is now amended – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Administration – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017 (second reading), with the Report of the Constitutional Legal Commission. It was added to the agenda on the basis of yesterday's decision by the Extended College: Point 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation to regulate the obligations of the former Soviet Union in respect of trade between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ, material No 01,02-05-2-1007/17, of 13 April 2017. I'm opening a debate. The word came from the esteemed representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17075	I thank the chairman. On the basis of Article 71. I ask the Rules of Procedure to return to the agenda the point that was removed yesterday by the votes of four members of the Transport Commission, specifically my Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act. My proposal provides that ambulances and fire departments have the advantage, the right of the vehicles to be escorted, so the ambulance has priority over politicians' vehicles under rotations. The current law gives politicians the right to drive vehicles of emergency and firemen. It is dangerous for the lives and health of our citizens, offends common sense and is a disgrace to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Directorate for European Integration has given the opinion that my proposal for a law is in line with best European practice. Four members of the Commission, however, think this can wait, so they asked that the statement be postponed for an additional 20 to 30 days, under the pretext that the Council of Ministers needs an opinion. So what kind of opinion will the Council of Ministers say that my proposal is not right and that vehicles accompanied should continue to take precedence over emergency aid and fire departments? If he says so, then the Council of Ministers deserves to be replaced. This delay is only an excuse for those four members of the Commission. Here are four members. Dear citizens of Republika Srpska if in the next month you see a black "Audi" or a BMW flowing into... pushes a fire or ambulance to know that Momčilo Novaković and Staša Košarac are guilty, who supported this delay. The citizens of the Federation that you know are guilty of Šemsudin Mehmedović and Nikola Lovrinović. Citizens of Brcko District to know that Mladen Bosić is guilty, because he allows the Alliance for Change to vote against every reform and European law from session to session. 18 Three members of the Commission supported my proposal and should be thanked. These are: Jovan Vukovljak, Amir Fazlić and Hanka Vajzović. That's right, Momčilo, Šemsudin and Nikola have brotherly joined in maintaining this monstrous privilege for politicians, and the right of the Emergency Championship and the firemen next to me have been provided by Amir, Jovan and Hanka. Gentlemen, from this you can see that this is above, beyond any party or national policy. This vote was not followed by either party or national signs, this was literally a vote on human and non-human grounds. But far the greatest guilt lies with Commission chairman Momčilo Novaković, who orchestrated all this and whose only promise is, I quote it, given in this House that he is going to be struggling to maintain all existing privileges of MPs and other officials. He said it more than once here, each time fighting against, almost every time fighting against my proposals to abolish the privilege. And he keeps this promise tight. So far he's been fighting to keep the money privileges, but this time he's gone too far, because the privileges whose suspension is stalling tomorrow can cost someone a lot more than some commission fee, I can cost someone their life if a car under rotations puts him in an emergency ditch. I therefore call on the College.../sound warning for the MP/... to put this item on the agenda... by giving a break in order to implement the first commission phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17076	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Chairman Mladen Bosić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17077	Mr. Arnaut, if it's too much of you. So, your desire for self-promotion, for petty politics, for accusing people without any basis, for creating an atmosphere that is neither collegiate nor good, for calling out, here, in this case, among other people and me, is really a picture of your character. So, by now, it may have been possible to commit it under some desire for political proof, but this accusation, in this way, is really past, beyond any sense, especially if I don't use these privileges at all. So, the citizens of Brcko have never seen that the vehicle driving me has ever turned on a rotational light. So, I'm a little surprised, I mean, I'm really surprised, even from you, I'm surprised by the way you put political issues and how you call people.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17078	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17079	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Here, it's unusual in this way for MPs to address MPs, which is certainly the opposite of the Rules of Procedure, but I want to say the following. I'm here from session to session listening to this maltletting by my colleague Damir Arnaut all of us here in this House of Representatives because of his desire for self-promotion. I consider it his right, his way of working, etc., but I am long enough in this House to remember well when a respected 19 colleague was the right hand of one of the political leaders in the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina when many laws were passed which he today, allegedly, is being corrected by the populist. And that's his right, and that speaks of his character and his way of working anyway, but let's not think that I'm afraid to say that yesterday at the session I voted for to deliver the official position of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and I don't want him calling the Minister on a private line to attend the meetings of the Commission because we don't need private ministers in the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I ask you to hold still to the heights of this House and that we do not really discuss each other in this way because this House's dignity has fallen terribly because of the way we work, and the laws we make, etc., etc., and of course because of our very relationship with the public. So I wouldn't want to de-polomeze at all with a colleague like this, but if I have to, of course, I'd be happy to get involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17080	Thank you very much. I think we can do this, if you insist, of course, I'll give a word to everyone, so today can't be a part of the agenda in the Rules of Procedure, I'm obliged to say it, if you can give up the correction of the wrong quote, I'd ask you to move on, if not, I'll certainly respect your right. Mr. Lovrinović, you asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17081	Well, I can't give up because Parliament was turned into a gossip session on the trail of what fellow Arnaut was saying. So if we're going to gossip, we're going to say this. He tells me yesterday's colleague Arnaut – so you've been not supporting me lately, I guess, thinking about the club. Then I ask – is it you or you? So I don't know if it's the club's position that he's doing, first of all, the SBB minister, we asked him why he didn't go through the Ministry when his minister, therefore, suggested this at the meeting of the Committee. He was a man from the ministry who said that many abuses use of light and sound signals, that it should be resolved, that it is not exactly what he says and then eventually turned out to be, what counterpart Mehmedović said, privately called the minister to come to confirm whether he spoke from the ministry his position or spoke to the ministry's position. So that's funny what he's doing to us. And we weren't against his proposal, so we were just asking to see, to fit into the law and it was possible and at an earlier stage when we were working on it, but if we're going to gossip about what we're doing, then we're going to talk about what fellow Arnaut is saying, is that, as far as this goes, is that the SBB Club's position, is that his party's position, is that his minister's position or his personal position? So we've been acting like agents and it's not true that we were against it. So don't get involved and lie here, when I have to tell you like that, don't lie to either the public or the colleagues here. We said we were looking for an opinion, we weren't against it, and don't mess with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17082	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17083	I thank the chairman. 20 I really have to react. More or less colleagues Bosić, Memedović and Lovrinović said everything but it is mentioned here that our club mostly does not support proposals coming from Mr Arnaut. I want us to get past this situation. Here, I'll give one, one well-intentioned, really, suggestion. The colleagues who were here in the last term remember the Club of the SBB, the esteemed colleagues of Dr. Đugum, Kabil, we were very often on different sides in position, the other in opposition, but even when the SBB was an opposition in this Parliament they always had all hands. And everything that Dr. Đugum and Dr. Kabil suggested was supported. As we generally support today what colleagues Đonlagić, Isaković, Škaljić suggest, means a colleague is one big difference that these people have never shown arrogance. It's about ordinary interpersonal relations, not political relations. So my advice is to ask your colleagues how they had the support of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17084	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17085	Thank you, dear colleagues. I wasn't when my colleague Arnaut spoke, I don't even have to be, of course, uh, sometimes it's desirable not to be when my colleague Arnaut speaks, but what's absolutely incorrect is that first that I was against, and especially that I was on behalf of the Alliance for Change, the SDS, etc., was against that law. When I'm against something, I say it publicly, I say it here in Parliament, I tell the press. There's no need for anyone to read between the lines what I'm saying because I'm saying it in public. I don't have anything to do with psychology, with psychology, so I wouldn't be able to interpret the character of my fellow Arnaut right now, some others would do much better, but I don't really intend to respond to any of his reactions, because I guess that's his goal, to keep the public's attention on myself, to produce these situations, here as a colleague Lovrinović said earlier when he was speaking in a way that wasn't appropriate to him either, but probably upset about all this happening on the commissions, so I won't really pay any attention at all to the statements of my colleague Arnaut, I'll leave it to him and his colleagues at the club and his party chief, let them account for it, the me affirmation of this kind doesn't need and therefore, today I won't have any more parliamentary communication communication with my colleague Arnaut. Of course, I've never had human communication before, so I don't think I'll have any in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17086	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17087	I welcome you, as are all those present in the O.R. I just want to point out that on this issue which seems not to be so important, which is essentially because it gives meaning to people who are in trouble, stands the SBB Club, and that all of these, as you would say, have come to this confusion or this confusion because we did not have a clear position of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and that there was a deputy or assistant minister present while the minister was absent on the official journey. So, the SBB Club behind this proposal stands entirely. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17088	We understand that. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17089	The Honorable Chairman. It is perfectly logical that every country in the world protects and defends the interests of its citizens, and in this sense it is logical, and natural, and justified to do so both Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are all witnessing that the crisis in Agrokor, Croatia, has shaken not only the Republic of Croatia but has left its reflections, I would say, in Slovenia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro, etc. I will bear that in mind, I will bear in mind that today our colleagues in Slovenia are also adopting "Lex Merkator“, which will bear in mind that in Serbia, let's say Agrokor's companies due to non-payments are already shutting down electricity, given that in Bosnia and Herzegovina our fellow citizens remain unemployed and that the crisis, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, will leave its both short and long-term consequences and will leave the consequences on the BiH market, on our consumers, businesses, suppliers, etc., I suggest that today's agenda of the 44th session be complemented, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, with the next item of the agenda – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the consequences of the Agrokor crisis in the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In view of the business provisions, we have prepared material that is on over a hundred pages, but in the conversation, here and with colleagues, so that we do not have anything to politicise at this point, we will deliver a short version, and I think if we include this point of the agenda that there are all the prerequisites that we can at least get information today, first of all from Deputy Prime Minister and Resolute Minister Šarović, who was at an important meeting yesterday, and that, for some reason, I am the Minister or someone from the Council of Ministers today, we can today not speak orally, of course, within that point, conclude that we are extending this point in this case and for the next session, but I believe that there is a need for all of us, and also the willingness to consider this issue and to see what we, on our part, to reduce the consequences, and they are already visible and in the Bosnian economy. I deliver this, therefore, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17090	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17091	I thank the chairman. I, if I understood correctly, colleague Pandurević, at least, here's to not speaking for others from her club, but she at least makes decisions whether she will support a legal solution or not depending on which identity she proposes. It's incomprehensible to me, especially when it comes to the removal of equipment or when it comes to the abolition of this, as I called it, the monstrous privileges for vehicles accompanied by ambulances. Well, if that's the solution, I'll be happy to sign, here, for anyone else to take over that bill. For someone who defended Ganić and the Divjak, I don't need promotions, or self-promotion, or anything else, this one, so it absolutely doesn't stand. 22 The second option I will consider is in line with the best Western practice where most co-proposers appear in bicameral systems to offer these laws when it comes to abolishing savings with Mr. Babalj, because I know that Darko Babalj fully supports any proposal that leads to the rationalisation of costs and savings. And that might be the best way, and that would be in line with best Western practice, co-proposers from one home and another ensure stronger passivity, etc. So, I'm going to consider, the menus of any of these options acceptable, uh, I just care that these things go through, and whose name is going to be signed, or I'm going to have some co-signator from another home really is absolutely irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17092	Thank you very much. So please don't use the pay phone when we talk about the agenda for anything other than the agenda. This thing is over about this law. This law can't be on the agenda today, I made it clear. Help me get into a situation so we can get back to work. Our job today is to realize the agenda. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17093	I thank the chairman. My discussion refers to what Honorable counterpart Bećirović said. I have no intention of commenting on another colleague because some people have a problem with themselves, not with the SDS Club. I really agree with Mr Bećirović's initiative that this Parliament should discuss and that we have a serious problem as a country. However, I'm afraid if the very name of the Council of Ministers' Information is the very name of the Council of Ministers, today it means that we would have that information from the Council of Ministers to meet, adopt and deliver it to us. So I suggest, and we'll support it, that today, to formulate it today as a conclusion that we're borrowing the Council of Ministers to provide us with this information for the next session and then we can really do it in a competent way, because today all individual views of the ministries are. Minister Šarović can tell us, come and tell us here what was in Belgrade yesterday. Here, that's my suggestion if you accept we'll support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17094	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Denis Bećirević, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17095	Well, there's more clarification to this proposal. I really don't mind that, if it's the mood, and that's how we conclude today, because it's clear that the Council of Ministers can't prepare that kind of information during the day. The idea was possible for us to get oral information today, I'm sure Minister Šarović would have had a lot to tell us, and what we don't know as MPs at the moment, and perhaps not the public, but we can, therefore, and within such oral information, bring this conclusion, although I'm not running away from this proposal, so we're already making that conclusion, and that's the point of the agenda for the next session, although it seems to me, time is a little running out. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17096	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17097	Here, I have volunteered to actually support this initiative by my colleague Bećirović for reasons that I do not think in Bosnia and Herzegovina at present there is an operational obstacle to this problem with Agrokor and Konzum, because it will certainly cause financial earthquakes, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in the whole region. For this reason, I have noticed that our Minister Šarović attended a meeting just where it was spoken about and it would be good for this Parliament to know what is actually being prepared and what possible consequences could happen for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, by the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina to follow. That is why I will certainly support an initiative like this, because I think this is very, very important right now in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17098	Thank you. If these discussions were left on this subject I would ask you to give you the position of the College. We, therefore, have decided to suggest that, and we agree on this, the provision of information from the Council of Ministers on the consequences of the Agrokor crisis on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to discuss this at the first next session. If that's it, if you don't have any new topics, I'd ask you if we can end the debate, go to work, if we don't, here's my word again, what I'm going to do. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17099	I thank the chairman. It is acceptable that your conclusion is without any doubt, but we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have several people in the most responsible positions that have dealt with this topic and in an appropriate way come public. We have those who claim that Konzum is not in charge of credit or debt to the state, but only, under quotes, suppliers of 320 million. So we have a different approach that deals in a more concrete way with this topic, which is presented right now by the Council of Ministers. It wouldn't be bad, it wouldn't be bad if we got oral information today from the Council of Ministers who, in my opinion, have dealt with this matter in a responsible way, and the fact that we're going to open the debate office is, however, we're going to have a session in 15 days or longer, let's, if possible, and if Mr. Šarović is first agreed on that, that during the day we get that, that's 5 minutes, here we don't have to discuss it at all, but I think it's an important topic. We're not politicizing, and we're even giving for the right of the Council of Ministers to approach this issue unlike entity governments that are no longer doing it in a very competent way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17100	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17101	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. 24 I'm a little off these issues, they're interesting, and I have a question, more about the issue than the discussion – could anyone, on behalf of the legislator of these laws that are listed here, be going according to emergency procedures, and I think it would be good, is it that we know if anything else, explain the reasons for urgency. Especially as it is, not to mention this first one, it seems to me under point 3, 4, I don't see it from here, but this set of laws that we discussed both at the last session and which are, which are decided to go into regular procedure, why again today by emergency procedure? I think it would be nice to hear the reasons, the Prime Minister's chairman is gone, but one of his deputies can if that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17102	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić. Here you go. Please, let us bring this debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17103	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to you. It's like living in clouds, we're from the government, asking the executive to do what she'd have to do to us at the table. The currentities of Agrokor, were there supposed to be an initiative on our part to have a debate about it, not that the Council of Ministers asked us to put it on the agenda, to get information. The public is asking for an answer. The whole region is excited about the economic consequences of this relationship and we are now begging the government, the Council of Ministers whether to give us information instead of them insisting that we accept it today. That's why I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17104	Thank you very much. Finally, the esteemed representative Zaim Backović. Here you go, and we'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17105	I support Mr. Denis Bećirović's initiative without any doubt, and of course I expect that those whose authority, or authorities of the state, will come forward and give us the information we need, but I guess we have our own head, too. We have something to know, the ones we're sitting on, there's those who've come up with some information and it's gonna be more stressful than we think. Much more stressful in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why it is necessary for the public to know what, how and how it will happen if we do not take steps to prevent this stress, economic stress. We're all just talking about Konzum, it looks like we're a little behind on the insurance companies that are tied up, who in time pulled out the capital and deposited it like in some banks.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17106	Please, please don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17107	Well, then give us a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17108	Thank you. 25 ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17109	Because they're bound by societies.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17110	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the occasion of the draft agenda, on the basis of the draft agenda that we had things to do, the following are. So, the debate is closed, I've concluded the debate. Mr Arnaut's proposal to return the agenda item to the agenda is not possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We gave the Commission a deadline at the Commission's request yesterday in the College of 20 days and it will be at the first next session. As far as Mr Bećirović's proposal is concerned, if Mr Becirovic agrees that we are now in charge of the Council of Ministers to provide us with information for the next session to put this to the vote, if you agree, Mr Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17111	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17112	You agree. I call, therefore, on the House to declare that the House of Representatives is asking the Council of Ministers to submit information to the Council of Ministers by next session on the consequences of the Agrokor crisis to the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then that'll be the point of the agenda. Prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. With 33 votes in favour, no votes against, no abstentions, enough entity majority, we adopted this conclusion. That's how we determined the agenda of today's session, which is what you got signed from yesterday's session of the extended college. Agenda 1. The adoption of the 43rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 7th emergency session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 3. Comments on questions received; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Well-being of Animals under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133, is required by the MP Predrag Kožul. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-814/17, of 23.03.2017; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-957/17, of 10.04.2017; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-958/17, of 10.04.2017; 26 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-959/17, of 10.04.2017; 8. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a deposit insurance law in Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-960/17, of 10.04.2017; 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administration – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-11/16, from 06.01.2017 (second reading), with Report of the Constitutional Commission; 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/17, 26.01 and 03.03.2017. (second reading); 11. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02- 1-770/17, of 20.03.2017; 12. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2016, act No: 05/8-04-356/17, 02.02.2017; 13. Report on the Commission's work on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2016, act No 01,02-50-14-695/17 of 10.03.2017; 14. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for the period from 01.01 to 31.12.2016, Act No: 01.02,03-10-725/17, 15.03.2017; 15. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2016, act No: 05/7-50-13- 807/17, of 22.03.2017; 16. Report on the implementation of the 2016 Local Elections – applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, Act No 01,02-50-19-660/17, of 07.03.2017; 17. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić on the debate on the report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No: 01,02-02-1-126/17, of 12.01.2017; 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the Opinion of Mensure Beganović's conclusion on the discussion of the Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No: 01,02-02-1-126/17, of 12.01.2017; 19. Proposal for measures and activities for the next period, which remove any barriers to existing and new markets for products from Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, act No: 01/3-50-3-6/15, dated 27.01.2017; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, material No 01,02-05-2-742/17, of 1603.2017; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual suspension of visas for holders of diplomatic passports, official passports and passports, material No 01,02-05-2-832/17, of 27.03.2017; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes, material No: 01,02-05-2-833/17, of 27.03.2017; 27 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border co-operation programme – Montenegro for 2015 between the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, material number: 01,02-05-2-834/17, dated 27.03.2017; 24. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 1 to the 2016 financing agreement concerning the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA component – aid in the transition and construction of institutions for 2016, material number: 01,02-05-2-880/17, of 31.03.2017; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (Programme Modernisation Project in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material number: 01,02-05-2-881/17, dated 31.03.2017; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Migratory Species of Wild Animals, material number: 01,02-05-2-885/17, of 03.04.2017; 27. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation for the ratification of the Agreement on the regulation of former Soviet Union obligations in respect of trade between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ, material No 01,02-05-2-1007/17, of 13 April 2017. I'm taking a break by 11:50. We continue with the work, the realization of the agenda at 11:50. Thank you. We continue to work, please take your seats. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. So the first point is, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 43rd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17117	Thank you very much. I delivered, as you have read, several questions and initiatives, I would like to comment on this about the Federal Ministry of Health, regarding the waiting list in the Federation 29 BiH – what the Federal Ministry of Health does specifically to shorten those waiting lists. So, I thank you for the answer, it's good information, but it essentially didn't offer us any solution. So, there's a part of the information that says that you can't... average duration of waiting, and citing the number and mentioning yourself, let's say 31.12.2016 in the field of cardiology and cardiosurgery that there were 593 patients on the waiting list. Analyze this only when you take that area and you do, uh, statistics, mathematics when people have applied, when they're listed on the waiting list and how long it is, say, by 31.12.200, you can draw this conclusion from all of this to give a concrete answer as to how average they are, so how average wait on these lists is to get the patient in a position to be treated. So this, as I've just mentioned cardiology and cardiosurgery here, can be done in all areas. And just the answer, one quality approach to this would give opportunity and space so that this area can be specifically improved. That is why, on the basis of this, I propose this response, therefore, to analyse the existing instruction and to bring forward a new guide to form a waiting list in the Federation of BiH in the area of, say, waiting for medicines and areas of health and health care services. I've recently watched on television the contribution of a man from Beza who says he's been waiting 145 days, that in 145 days he's got a deadline to be examined at the Cantonal Hospital in Zenica. So how to cantonal, uh, how to clinically The centers, let's say, import, the way that you can find a quality solution, and that we have this kind of information, and that based on that we act... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17118	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17119	So I suggest that this initiative...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17120	Thank you very much. So, the comment can't last longer than time to ask a parliamentary question, so that's two minutes. I'm asking services to record it on this tech, on the monitor. Commentary, distinguished representative Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17121	I thank the chairman. I got an answer to the question that contains three parts. The first and third parts are contained in this answer, but the second part is not given at all. Either the technical error was omitted or not created. I'd like to ask for an additional, complementary answer to the complete answer to the supplemental question complete answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17122	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, comment. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17123	I thank the chairman. I got an answer from the High Representative, Mr. Inck, and I thank him. At the rate he responded, he gave a lesson to some of our officials who, when asked, you have to wait a few months for them to answer. As for the content of the response, he confirmed in response the claim that the BiH presidency violated the Framework Agreement for Peace by ousting international members of the Commission for National Monuments. It is a particularly interesting part of the response where it says that before that procedure, the BiH Presidency is five embassies and the Office of the High Representative, and it is pointed out in the answer who exactly, warned the BiH Presidency not to do so, that aneks vi of the dejtonski Peace Accords was prescribed exactly who makes the Commission for National Monuments, the way it decides, but the Presidency unanimously did so. And at this point, if they were to suggest that one of the monuments be included, let's say on the UNESCO list, it's very likely that it wouldn't be possible. Part of the answer in which Mr Incko argues that, as far as they are concerned, he considers this Commission incomplete, or that there are two vacant places, best talks about the relationship against such a decision. I sincerely hope that the BiH Presidency will stop carrying out any procedural acrobatics in its answers, such as this one we talked about today on parliamentary issues, where they change the laws of this country through their decisions, to take a step backwards and allow the National Monuments Commission to work normally as was the day of the decision which expelled two of the five members and disabled normal work.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17124	Thank you very much. Commentary, distinguished representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17125	A colleague of Magazinović, probably Incko was scared because he heard we'd punish financially if we didn't respond. So, I have a comment on the response that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs provided me, and this is about the case, I will recall, Nevenka Filipović – a return, so the realisation of housing rights, a building that was destroyed in the war, 20 years old, the municipality of Novo Sarajevo, is seeking a return. I thanked the minister, and now I thank her, because she got involved in this very complex problem even though it could have been simple. However, there she is not here, I'm sorry, but, uh, I'll probably, when I get a comment from interested persons, who have this right to get some kind of answer through me, to deliver it to her, to her commentary, because the person who only saw this briefly said that they did not stand here as an answer to the asked question why it was not settled housing by law, this, and that it was treated for just one period of time, and they're asking it since '96. A year. So, the problem is that the person's right hasn't been realized and that today he's wandering from the merciless to the unloved and that there are some things that have never been offered to these people at all to get rid of this issue that caused the war. And on the other hand, one person who was also in that same building, which is no longer there, has been resolved in some way, so they do not know that, however, these persons are not solved, and it is the person Filipović Nevenka. And I will, therefore, ask the Minister to, when I get the particular attitude of the person to whom this applies, then explain to me how a person says such an ad hoc that these are not exactly listed here. I suppose she got it, that she couldn't, uh, have it on herself, but that she got it from some of the New Sarajevo community services, so I hope we'll continue, but ultimately we'll just solve this case. So it doesn't matter to me at all who's right if there's only a solution for a person to finally get the chance to live properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17126	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Diana Zelenika, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17127	I thank and welcome all those present. My parliamentary question referred to, or was addressed to, Minister Semihi Borovac, and it was said – what he intended to do about the Majorisation of Hrvat in federal ministries and disrespect for the Dayton Peace Agreement and a ratio of 2.3-1 to the '91 census. the years, and yet on the Bosniak and Croatian components. I got an answer I can't call an answer, and it says that given the lack of data I can't answer. However, in the meantime, I have received answers from several ministries, of course I am not from the Ministry of Defence who was most concerned, because according to my knowledge of the material component 88% goes to the B component,... to only 12%, and the employment is such that, as far as I know, only two Hrvat work in that ministry. To recapture, I will ask the minister not to consider this answer as an answer, but as the answers from individual ministries arrive, to add them all together and to finally respond to me – what she intends to do to protect human rights in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17128	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17129	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The answer to the question I asked was by the Secretary of Defense and I am completely dissatisfied with him. I also asked who the members representing Bosnia and Herzegovina were in the Interstate Commission and who named them and when he appointed them. In addition, this answer raises many questions that will continue, and I will use that, of course, cause a lot of controversy. How is it possible to sign agreements without being verified in this House, because these are agreements based on the Annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement 1-B? How is it possible for someone and some commission, some people who have no name and name in and for the name of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to sign agreements that have permanent reflections without this House, or the BiH Parliament, verifying it? It's something that's against the Dayton Peace Accords. Anex writes that states, states, not individuals, or ministries will form and propose those who will be composed of a trilateral commission ahead of Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm very interested in who, when and how and in what way he named these people. It's just like a little dyspression one piece of information that's fraternizing. The Dayton Peace Agreement defined 5 2 2 2 in the people is 5 3 1 Bosnia and Herzegovina is 9,000, and should have at least as... [[Employee is warned on time]] 32
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17130	Thank you very much. The word has a esteemed representative Mirsad Đonlagić, a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question concerned a truly alarming and dramatic situation, and we are already slowly forgetting that since the weather came, 4-5 months ago it was a terrible situation with air pollution in Sarajevo, Zenica and Tuzla. I asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs if they were able to follow those reports by the World Health Organization, which gave extremely warning dramatic reports on the state of pollution in these three cities. The answer I received, of course, thanks for the answer, but given that in the... chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH there have been talks on environmental issues which are exactly the basis of one of these issues, one concern for clean air in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I expect that the data given in the World Health Organisation's Report, such as the assessment of mortality as one of the extremely serious indicators of environmental pollution, in this particular case of air pollution, will need to be monitored. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not follow and see that the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, is unable to give such information. Of course, it is clear to me that some institutions from Bosnia and Herzegovina do not want to co-operate with the BiH Council on this matter, but those they want are quite enough and relevant so that these assessments can be given. Why am I saying that? These are terrible data, official state institutions must publish these data in order to warn the public and those who care about the public that something must be done in this country on this matter. Here, I am so much asking the Minister of Civil Affairs to continue their activities on this issue and that this, this response, that there is no such data and that, in fact, they do not do those assessments. It's what needs to be done. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17132	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17133	I asked the BiH Council of Ministers almost five months ago and I received the answer last week and it was incomplete. Today I received a supplement, so we have answers from all ministries except for the chairman, Mr. Zvizdić, who has not delivered his travels and travels to his cabinet. I do not know in which way this characterizes certain ministries and travels and costs that are here in tables, because it is amazing, I am sorry, here is Mr Bevanda, the distinguished minister is here, so according to this table, I, as far as I see Mr Bevanda, met more with officials of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, with parliamentarians in Croatia than with Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarović. It is obvious that it is the Croatian Ministry of Finance, not the BiH Ministry of Finance. Also other ministries when you see reasons and travel, such as Travel to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH, Mr. Juska and his associates, the incredible sums spent on individual travels, the number of persons travelling, and apparently I see that Mr. Jusko is absent today, I think he went to 33 Vašington, this, instead of being here. So there's another reason why we should deal with all this stuff. Obviously, the ministry should also be called the tourism ministry and the ministry of populism, because there is no other purpose of this ministry and what they are doing. Let's not forget the others, I think there's very little time to comment on this. You have visits or tours on shows, e.g. in the Knights, in Kiseljak in the morning program that lasted two days for which they took the diaries. You have visits to advisers, deputy ministers, a tour of the monasteries in Serbia and Greece. So amazing things and something that should definitely be dealt with by the BiH Prosecutor's Office I just have to remind myself that I have proposed to my amendments to cut travel costs by about half when it was a proposal for this budget this year, and that these funds [[Employee is warned on time]] Guidelines on the financing of parents' houses in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar, however, the ruling coalition has rejected it, and we see that there are also increases in budgets for these purposes in certain ministries in the BiH Council of Ministers. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17134	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. No more comments reported. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Well-being of Animals under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133, is required by the MP Predrag Kožul. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-814/17, of 23.03.2017. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 29 March 2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17136	My colleagues and colleagues, dear guests, have a good day. I'll, uh, first try to explain the motives of proposing this law by this urgent procedure. Namely, the Animal Protection and Well-being Act defines a prohibition on the breeding of animals for the purpose of the production of fur which takes effect from 01.01.2018. Given that there are more firms in Bosnia and Herzegovina currently in Bosnia and Herzegovina, animal farming farms are clear that the ban soon to take effect will make this activity completely impossible. The good part of these farms has already been shut down, the rest of them are, I would say, irreparable optimists who believed that we, uh, would have heard of this activity or those who had no other means of existence. When a part of them came to me, I, of course, tried to see how the regulation in Europe, or the European Union, is in place, because I believe that, for all known reasons, our legislation should be harmonised or take steps towards harmonisation with the European Union. I will talk about it a little bit more in the reasoning of the Law today or some other time, now just for a little while, to say that in some ways, I was surprised to read that 2/3 34 fur production comes from the European Union, and in one of the European Commission's materials, I read that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have 55 farms dealing with farming and production, and in Denmark we perceive as a highly developed, highly civilized state, 1.518 farms. That was enough motive for me to approach the bill's proposal and it was an emergency procedure. I'll explain the reasons for the emergency procedure very briefly. I believe that this Law satisfies, so to speak, both the conditions of emergency procedure referred to in Article 133(1) of the Law. First, it is formulated, it is very short and formulated simply and secondly, I would explain the urgency in a way that, if we really had here today, or some other time, good, this, the desire to adopt such a law, those who are engaged in this activity if they wanted to deal with it in 2018, the preparation should have started already this winter, because this production as well as each other has certain cycles and requires certain preparations. In this I see reasons for urgency, and here you are, I suggest and ask fellow MPs to support this request.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17137	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Arnaut, discussion of the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17138	Of course, the procedure. So I am interested in why the BiH Directorate for European Integration has not delivered an opinion that is mandatory to the Rules of Procedure. I checked with the director of the Directorate before this session, and I was confirmed that he didn't, they didn't even get an opinion in the Directorate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know it is an urgent procedure but the Rules of Procedure do not make a difference when it comes to the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, whether it is an emergency procedure or not. However, since we had more or less similar in Parliament last year, I am running away from saying the same but more or less similar to the bill's proposal, in any case it was the same matter, so to postpone application to a certain period and then the European Integration Directorate delivered its Opinion and highlighted the following – it is important to note that it is very, and now these are dark letters, very sensitive, important and complex issues from the point of view of rights, science, morals and fundamental social values. So a very sensitive, important and complex question from the point of view of rights, science, morals and fundamental social values. It's the only thing that requires a full procedure with a commission, with different commission stages, etc. Because if something very complex is from the point of view of the Directorate for European Integration then it deserves it, if not a public debate, although it is somewhere on the border, but if not already public debate, then in any case it deserves two commission stages, including the possibility of colleagues to submit amendments if they agree with the principles of the Law and think that some part should be corrected. So, I'm talking exclusively about the procedure, regardless of what the law is short, considering how the European Integrations Directorate is looking at this issue, from the point of view of law, science, morality and basic social values, the commission phase is absolutely necessary and I'm surprised that this thing is even referred to an emergency procedure. 35 Also when it comes to the reasoning of colleagues, I now do not know whether this is about the ignorance of matter or about sloppyness, but in any case your bill carries the date of 22.03.2017, and you explain that among the countries that have a ban on the transitional period that is taking place is Croatia. However, in the Republic of Croatia the ban entered into force on 01.01.2017, so almost three months before you referred your bill to the procedure. So, in November 2006, a similar law was passed in the Republic of Croatia, such as the one we are discussing today, and the application of a ban on breeding animals was delayed for 10 years, and the ban expired on 01.01.2017, even though there was mass lobbying to postpone the ban. The Council of the Republic of Croatia did not accept these mass lobbying with a view to animal protection, and the ban entered into force on 01.01.2017. So, if I can suggest to my colleague, Kožul for the needs of the commission phase when this enters it to move the Republic of Croatia to this right column where the ban is in force. So, again, by referring to the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration on a similar law which was in the procedure, initiated in the House of Peoples, I consider the commission phase necessary, and I call on the College, or the competent services to obtain the opinion of the Directorate for European Integrations on the specifically proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17140	Thank you. So from now on until the end of the session, in accordance with Article 37. Rules of Procedure, I'm cutting the discussion down to five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Zaima Backović, you have the word, excuse me, the esteemed representative of Predrag Kožul, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17141	Well, I will here, in the form of correction of the wrong allegation, not entering the reasons why this Law is not, this Law as a previous law of similar content, came to the Directorate for European Integration, that in this Opinion, the previous Directorate for European Integration writes, again embodied, – keeping and breeding animals for the production of fur is not explicitly prohibited in the European Union, but Member States must respect and implement all regulations, directives, decisions and other regulations of the European Union relating to the protection of animal health and welfare, which is very clear. In that document, the Directorate for European Integrations also writes this – also given that dogs and cats are considered pets and that the fur of these animals is not easy to distinguish from synthetic or fur of other animals... in accordance with Regulation No 1523/2005 of the European Parliament and... of 11.12.2007 fully prohibited from importing or exporting dog and cat fur or products containing such fur. We note that this Regulation has not been adopted into the legislation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I now note that I have also installed this Regulation in the provisions of the Law in the proposed law, respecting the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17142	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Zaim Backović. There you go, and there's a discussion. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17143	The Honorable Chairman, given that the order is coming, on the agenda, very important points of the agenda and that some MPs, perhaps not all, have been very prepared for this item of the agenda, especially the next, I ask you to withdraw the restriction because you are not giving us a chance to tell the citizens what our obligation is. In this way you deny us the right to not give what we have prepared and why we have a duty to those who have chosen us in full capacity. I don't think that's fair at all, which means it's very trendy that those who were preparing will be prevented from saying what, how, how and how they came and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17144	Thank you. You've heard the decision, so the decision has been made. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations, I will not engage in any further cracks. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17145	I thank my colleague, Kožul. So last year, the Directorate for European Integration said on a similar law that it was a very sensitive, important and complex issue. So that fact itself excludes, if you have good intentions, the possibility of an emergency procedure. If something is very important, sensitive and complex, especially when it is from the point of view of right, science, morals and basic social values, then it excludes the possibility of an emergency procedure. And when it comes to the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, it is absolutely incorrect that the Directorate did not deliver an opinion on your bill this time because it delivered it to something similar last year. The Directorate for European Integration has not received a request from the House of Representatives to give an opinion at all. And the Rules of Procedure order, so I call on the services to ask for an opinion from the Directorate for European Integration, and when they deliver that opinion we will have at the commission stage and we will consider all these things. I remind you again, you have placed the Republic of Croatia among the countries, as you say, in which the ban is in force. It is not true, because the ban entered into force, the ban on the breeding of animals to tear their furs came into effect on 1 January 2017, the ban was in force, and there were huge lobbying to extend the ban, to extend the restrictions, to extend the application of the law and the Council of the Republic of Croatia did not discuss this in an emergency procedure, and in any case all these attempts were rejected and the ban in the Republic of Croatia was in effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17146	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17147	I'll be brief, since I'm one of those people who loves animals. I will podržati your approach, Mr. Kožul, but I would ask you to add one sentence, the general hypocrisy of the Evopian Union makes us be like them, I said 37 hypocrisy. The largest fur manufacturer, they didn't even mention it, you know that Poland, one of the great members of the European Union, is well known to you, and then they moved to Bulgaria, and then they moved now to the east, zero farms, because then where's the fur that's being sold across Europe. You get into... in the middle of London, there's nothing you won't find that animal skinned, it doesn't exist. But that's why we're through the floral and legally trying to say we're very human, it's terrifying, it's terrifying. But you also have the next situation where without fur it's impossible to survive, so Sweden, Norway, Finland, the entire northern belt of Russia, and not to list me now, the southern part of South America and so on. So, there should still be what is called human breeding, but to limit and to make sure that there are no abuses in this animal protection law, because that abuse has consequences, let's say in this city where we are today, that you have thousands of dogs that can't normally go to school, they can't go to school, and we're not going to pass such a law that we'll find a way to get rid of that kids are free to walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17148	Thank you. It's a matter of procedure. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present. And, here's to saying that I agree with Mr. Kožul's proposal in terms of, uh, his concerns, here I would say, about, in this difficult economic and social situation in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to protect the jobs that arise, uh, from or directly related to this legal matter. I don't think there's any need for us to discuss this matter beyond emergency procedures. Here I just want to remind us if we don't make one change like this then we will have the opportunity to import from Belgium, Montenegro, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Italy, Lithuania, Latvia, Germany, Poland, Spain, Sweden or fur or finished products, and we will close our jobs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, anyway, uh, we're going to have a presence on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market, or in people's houses, furs, it's just a question of who's going to place it for us. Whether we go through some of our new jobs or, in a way, we're going to introduce it. And this is also commendable in this legal solution by Mr. Kožul for putting, uh, ultimately, let's say, a ban on dog and cat fur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17150	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote on an emergency procedure request. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 16 against, 6 abstentions, enough entity... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At whose request? _________(?) The SBB club demands a re-election.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17153	Well, maybe very briefly, since we've already said something about the law itself. The Act on the Protection and Well-being of Animals is set out in Article 4 of the ban on breeding of animals for the production of fur and Article 43 of this prohibition has been suspended until 2018. Given that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we currently have more farms dealing with animal farming, it is clear that the ban that is taking effect will make this activity impossible. Otherwise, because of these legal provisions, part of the farm has already been shut down. It is important to note that currently most of Bosnia and Herzegovina's fur production is being placed in exports. In Europe, including the European Union, there are different legal practices in this area. Animal breeding for fur production is authorised in almost all European Union members and the prohibition of breeding is not legally binding. The European Union covers about 2/3 of world fur production. Where the country of the Union introduces a ban, it shall ensure long transitional periods and high compensation to breeders. We have here a table where it is shown, I allow, since in Croatia a long debate on the extension of this deadline has been held, that in the meantime I wrote this Law is not that extended, but the ban has come into force, and here I thank my colleague Arnaut for the correction. In view of the current economic and social situation in a country where each production and each workplace is extremely important, I believe that it is appropriate to extend the transitional period for the application of the prohibition referred to in Article 4 at least until the time when the state will be in a situation for breeders to compensate to a certain extent for the damage caused by the shutting down of production. This was also an opportunity to make provision for Articles 7 and 9. The law implements the European Parliament's 2007 Regulation. Since it has already been said here that the legislative and legal sector has given a positive opinion on this Law, but within that opinion there was one remark on one, so to speak, nomotechnical discrepancies in Article 1 of this Law, so that I, by using the possibilities of Article 133(4) of the Law, will try to correct this nomotechnical discrepancy. That amendment to deliver, here, to the MPs up, so to speak, until the end of the debate, and here to read it to make it very clear to you what is said. So Article 1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act is amended and reads: “Article 7. The Act on the Protection and Well-being of Animals is added to the new paragraph (2), which reads – Pets breeding for fur production is prohibited’. 39 So, there was... the inaccuracy of what precise pets are and that is what the legislative and legal sector has warned this... and in some ways we are correcting this nomotechnical discrepancy which enables us, which, in order for the Law to be as clear as possible, there would be no possible vague interpretation of this particular article 7. I ask you to also respect this amendment that has been created on the basis of, indeed, a legitimate remark in the opinion of the people of the legislative sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17154	Thank you. Since there are no more reports for the hearing, I'm closing the debate. We're going to the five-day line, that's Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-957/17, of 10.04.2017 The legislative and legal sector delivered the opinion you received on 12.04. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17156	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. We, as you recall at the last session, had the same request from the Council of Ministers for the emergency procedure on this set of laws. And then it was urgent, here's what they said, and today it's urgent. I wonder if it's the same laws? If it's about the same laws then we've had these laws and they are, we've chosen to go into a regular procedure, because it's an opportunity to actually improve these legal solutions eventually. Why is this an emergency? I've had live activities in the past few days, I've been very interested in what's urgent in this procedure that will not be done any great harm to the Bosnian-Herzegovina society or state, or any institution, and I couldn't find reasons for urgency unless there are some political reasons I don't know about. But I'd like to say a few things. I am willing to support, of course, if it is in the interest of the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina this package of laws, but I am willing to support only conditionally, which is to protect Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens from the new wave of consumer goods collection. So together with my colleague Ahmetović, here, I have proposed a set of conclusions of seven, which, as a matter of fact, would ease the impact, that someone manages the processes in this country when it comes to this energy, and it is oil and oil derivatives, which, in fact, will cause a chain reaction to the collection of goods of broad consumption because of transport, as it concerns fuel for production, etc., etc. So in a few of these conclusions, here is the first and second conclusion, it would actually have to be some guarantee that citizens would not suffer much damage when it comes to new oil and oil derivatives. Why am I saying this? Because in a few attempts in this House, we have been trying to secure the so-called so-called. The blue diesel for agriculture, unfortunately we haven't been able to do it until today. In entities it is defined differently and in Republika Srpska, it seems to me, much better than it is in the 40 Federation. As a result, I also insisted on this conclusion 3 that the difference between the price of the excise increase, if we increase the excise duty by 15 fening is not an increase in the price of 15 fening but by 17.6 fening because it is also VAT on excise duty, so that these 2.6 fenings are directed right into subsidising blue diesel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17157	I apologize, please stick to the agenda, the debate is about the urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17158	I'm just talking about the reasons why it's not so urgent, because we had before, here, 15 days of the session, we discussed the urgency of the procedure, and we said it's not so urgent, I can wait for both the EBRD and the IMF and all those who can't wait for us to adopt it in order to get us some credit funds that we're going to put in the budgets and survive, is it, a few months? I'm sorry to raise your voice, but that's really the way it is. So I'm talking about exactly why we shouldn't support emergency procedures. If we take the oil price structure at today's retail price, you'll see it different, of course, from the trader to the trader, but the average price today is, say, from the Sysca Oil Refinery is 1.95. What does everything in that price of 1.95 that citizens pay? You will see that the purchase price is 0.876, that the excise duty is greater than the existing 30 fenings, that the toll is already 15 fenings, that the highway tax is already 10 fenings, followed by the transport of 4 fenings, the expedition of 0.3 fenings, the wholesale margin 1 fening, the retail margin of 19 fenings and, of course, the VAT 28 fenings coma 10. And of course there's more taxes for terminals, etc. And we get a price of 1.96. What does that mean? If we increase by 15 more fenings, that means that the excise is actually going to be not 0.30 plus 0.15 plus 0.10 but it's going to be but it's going to be another 17.6 fenings.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17159	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17160	I therefore call, here, fellow MPs and MPs to support, to support this proposal of conclusions prior to the declaration of procedure. Otherwise, we can't, uh, I couldn't support a legal solution that would make a terrible blow to the budgets of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, regardless of the cost of impasses in the development of infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And one more thing, this is just the beginning of the imposition of excise duties, I'm afraid that the implementation of the infrastructure development strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the introduction of new excise duties for railways is likely to be, perhaps, some other composition At home, have a chance to discuss it. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17161	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17162	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know if this is a misstatement or if it's a replica. In fact, I will only talk briefly about the conclusions of my colleagues because he himself said that this depends on a practical vote on emergency procedures or not. Conclusion 1 requires a guarantee that there will be no increase in prices, retail oil prices. Here, I know that in the last 15 days, at pumps in Republika Srpska oil has increased between 15 and 20 fening and that for the first time in 15-20 years it has been above prices, retail oil prices in the Federation, at some pumps in the Federation. So without this, I'm saying clearly how much we can control even moving retail prices. So it's absolutely impossible to meet this request. It's also impossible for us to commit something here to entity ministries or entity governments, it's simply not possible. First of all, people have no obligation to listen to us, secondly it's different jurisdiction. At that moment, the Ministry of Agriculture in Republika Srpska decides on subsidies, decides on incentives, and we cannot oblige them here whether they will have, or will have, this, meaning, will, etc. ...that funds are directed towards agriculture. So just to finish, these conclusions adopted by these don't guarantee their realization in any way. And that's why I don't think they have any relaxing, relaxing role in voting on these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17163	Thank you. I ask the MPs to stick to the agenda points both in the debates and in these corrections. Correction of the wrong quote, Damir Arnaut. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17164	Thank you. Here's a hint of you, if I can, uh, correct the wrong quote, that's exactly what someone commits, then you're correcting that part, whether it fits or doesn't fit the agenda. But as far as I'm concerned, it's about my colleague Mehmedović. So, counterpart Mehmedović said it was important to adopt excise duties for international monetary arrangements, etc., that it is not urgent. The urgency is seen in the fact that it is necessary to build highways, and that is why excises are necessary. We've been talking about this issue since July last year, and it was the first time in the emergency procedure, and then there were some promises that the Change Alliance would vote for it right after the election, so they broke it, and then we got, uh, assurances from the head of the club that those promises were to the SDA, not to the SBB, etc. As far as the conclusions are concerned, I'm interested, the SBB absolutely supports all of this and we all support this at the entity level and our ministers have powers in the given portfolio fighting for the implementation of all these things, this, at the entity level and it's not at all controversial, so, as far as these traps are concerned, I'm only interested, uh, without getting into Mr. Mehmedović's motives, as he likes to do when he's doing replicas, without entering anyone's right hand or who's turned his hand before these votes, I'm just interested in whether he thinks these conclusions will be implemented. Because I'd like them to be implemented, but I'd like to know if my colleague Mehmedović is familiar with the fact that when the excise duties were first introduced in the amount of 10 42 fening that, at that time, a colleague from the SDP suggested that the administration of indirect taxation would be concluded every time there was a new increase in excise duties. to deliver an opinion on the effects of these excise duties. [[Employee is warned on time]] Has it ever been implemented, has anyone ever remembered that conclusion? And I'm curious now is this just populism about something that we all agree more or less on, or do you really believe this is going to be implemented? And we are at your disposal to help implement it at different levels of government.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17165	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17166	I thank the chairman. First of all, I want a quick recovery of my colleagues from Club Mešić, who recently had surgery and also the healing of his colleague Demirović, and I see that he is probably absent today because of his illness. Since these conclusions are a prerequisite for a number of MPs to accept or not accept emergency procedures, I want to say the following. These conclusions are partly inconclusive, partly contrary to the law, and they have partly missed the building. So, the Federal Parliament is a few hundred metres lower and many of these conclusions should have been proposed there or to Banja Luka, as many miles away, in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. Not to waste everyone's time, colleagues have spoken, but we owe entity ministries to do something, we decide to launch more intensive activities, set deadlines of 90 and 60 days for people who have been unable to do anything for 2.5 years. Completely imprecise conclusions who will do what, who will propose an action plan, at what level. We're committed to adopting social packages for the most vulnerable categories, who? Entire governments. Well, you know when they'll respect this. And not to go any further, if there's any need, I'm going to analyse one conclusion at a time, but I want to say the next thing. These are not the conclusions of the vote for an emergency procedure, this is an alibi to vote for an increase in fuel prices for individuals, who through this save their cheeks, and perhaps a position within the SDA. [[Employee is warned on time]] The trade run this way with certain MPs who express their wish lists in exchange for their vote is something that, if they will enter practice, should be regulated by the Rules of Procedure, so I ask the Council of Ministers why they chose two MPs to throw out their wish list, which are inconclusive, what about the rest of us, if we have any conditions Shall we vote for this? [[Employee is warned on time]] I think this is one very bad practice that's being conducted transparently, it's only positive, everyone alive knows that if you adopt these two men will raise their hands, if you don't adopt them, regardless of what's on the paper is absolutely inconclusive and doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17167	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17168	Look, the correction of the wrong quote refers to previous colleagues who said they couldn't control the rise in retail prices. That's not true. A rise in price can also be controlled by 43 if there is a desire and a will for such a thing. Remember, when there was a crisis in the Middle East, it was much stronger that the price of oil barrels was 120 and some dollars on the world market. Today it's $53, and it's moving down to 30 and some dollar, but it didn't go down drastically in retail, so it was an extra profit, so those who deal with oil and oil derivatives had investments in various other areas, which is certainly commendable, but it's still over the back of those who buy in retail. And so someone has to take care of it. Who wants that? The Council of Ministers, entity governments, etc., which should work in the interest of citizens, should take account, because we are not an energy independent country, you know, if we just let two or three companies deal with wholesale, or oil and oil derivatives. If it is a liberal market, if it is free to form prices, then the state can, or entities intervene to just force those who, which, that oil lobby to reduce prices, or keep prices under control. Thus, what counterpart Novaković was saying is already being prepared to get used to people, i.e. citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, getting used to some higher price of retail oil. So I think this is enforceable if there's a desire to spend this, unless it's another thing. Of course, an emergency for The highway, we've been talking for years about building highways on corridor 5c and other highways. [[Employee is warned on time]] We had an Action Plan in the Commission for Transport and Communications, which was scheduled for 2018 to complete the construction on corridor 5c. What is it today? We're just looking for funds to even talk about building a 5c corridor. So, if we don't talk about injustices, investments, etc., we're building highways to get to the sea as quickly as possible, instead of building a highway to get to Europe as soon as possible, so that we have normal roads so that we can place goods on the European market. [[Employee is warned on time]] We, we seem to rather rest at sea.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17169	Thank you. I ask MPs and MPs to stick to the time of business, both for discussion and for correcting the wrong quote. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17170	Well, I've heard all sorts of arguments about these excises, but I haven't really heard this, as my colleague Arnaut said, the urgency is being looked at because it's important to build highways quickly. So if this is now some explanation for us today, that this urgency from 15 days ago was, about a little bit evolved to date, here's my proposal. The existing excises are now at this moment 30 fencing, going into budgets, let's turn these 30 fenings around to build highways. We need highways, let's say we build highways. If we want to be credible, so we're not going to talk about raising this people's new burdens, making new commitments, if we care about the highway, but about what we have, we turn and build highways. That's how we're gonna show that we're serious. This is different, we all know what it is. And the other thing, Momčilo and Magazinović, you're both right, bound, therefore, for, for, for a lot of dilemmas about the conductability of certain conclusions. That's why I've had the conclusions that were just last session, but it was the emergency procedure so we couldn't, as it's called, put them in formal review and this time I repeated, so in these conclusions, you'll see that there's a clear commitment in which we won't cheat, at which point this is being adopted at those levels that we can do, and today here there are MPs from the SDA, so 44 MPs from the leader Bakir Izetbegović, Dodik, Čović, and here I see this leader Radončić, so these leaders, they have most of them in entity governments to adopt what we're talking about. When they adopt what we're talking about, then we can say that we're the ones who are willing to support, let's say that the excises get up and that we had some sort of, what's called, the reason why we've been putting up with the conclusions. All the while, so from now on and on, and in the public, and among the people will remain as one, as I would say, some sort of trick, call it whatever you want, on the back of those who think that this is the way to change attitudes So I ask you, in that sense, to look at what one serious approach means... to make conclusions. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17171	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17172	Thank you, Madam Chairman. First of all, I wonder what we're discussing here, is it procedure or have we already reached conclusions? About the procedure. But since you've allowed this much talk to me, I'll only be a short time before I get to the point-by-point discussion and the conclusions. There are things that are well-conceived, well-intentioned, but inconclusive, impossible. Conclusion 1 directly in contrast to market freedom, the freedom to set prices, in relation to accession negotiations with the European Union. In particular, it is state control or state governance, or the introduction of an agreed economy. Unimplementable, no matter who has the authority to pass such a law. Two, if it comes or doesn't come to the same market, we're not gonna throw beans or these spoons that someone throws, I see surrealist knives, so let's guess what it's gonna look like. The difference in price and the increase is what we can but it is a force on the villa, we have already calculated the difference or increase. The laws of encouragement are not our jurisdiction, and I argue that they will not be passed for the simple reason that Republika Srpska is in front of bankruptcy, or the budget is in front of bankruptcy, is not far from the Federation if it continues like this and there is no one to force them to pass this law. And so in order, then we'll discuss with specific things. [[Employee is warned on time]] And I'd like to ask you to really go to procedure, whether we want to or not. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17173	Well done, I respect that very much. Thank you for your help, indeed, very constructively on your part. So this was a replica of 2 minutes, then a procedure of 5 minutes, and then a debate of essence 5. So you see no one's been denied enough time, anything can be said in that time, we just need to be rational. Thank you, Mr. Backović, for this constructive support. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, my replica is to Mr. Arnaut, with respect, is he, of course, his opinion, but I do want to correct it and remind him that in such a difficult economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the excise duty is not the only means to make new roads across the back of citizens and to speed up these... Here, let's think about concessions, let's think about some other financial sources, but we don't have to rush for excise duty to speed up road construction. Thank you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17175	Thank you. Reputed deputy chairman Mladen Bosić, the correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17176	Well, I think we made a little bit of a mistake in the procedure here. This if the conclusions they should be making in the debate about the envisaged law, but here it's clear to all of us, I think here is a conditioned vote on urgency by adopting these doves, if I understand well.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17177	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17178	So that's why you don't interrupt these even though it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it's just about these conclusions on the transfer of jurisdiction. So this is where the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina draws conclusions that bind entity authorities, meaning also Republika Srpska, to implement these conclusions. So I assume these conclusions are unacceptable to all MPs from Republika Srpska. I don't have to read here it's clear that this is about it, but essentially, about urgency, so management doesn't have to go by emergency procedure to discuss and change this law in segments where it's possible and maybe even adopt it, and we vote if we get to something that's in the citizens' interest. So it's a matter of urgency procedure. I appeal to the MPs to come into the debate because it is serious matters and that through the amendment phase we can come to a solution if we can come to an agreement. And the insistence of the Council of Ministers on the urgency of the procedure, and even at the cost of disrespecting the procedure for adopting this proposal, is precisely to prevent a debate that would make changes to... the law in certain segments.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17179	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17180	Thank you. Of course, to all that the esteemed vice-president, Mr. Bosić, said, and as for the transfer of jurisdiction and that entity governments have absolutely no obligation to support this, I am already telling you that the Government of Republika Srpska will not support this. Of all this, because it will not allow the BiH Parliament to dictate what it will do, of all this Republika Srpska already has a law on incentives. I really think that colleagues are, have and these are essentially the conclusions they should be making, but we know how to implement the conclusions of this Parliament. Indeed, the Council of Ministers does not implement them; we cannot bind them, let alone the enigmatic governments, which is not our constitutional jurisdiction. Republika Srpska, for example, has an excellent Law on Incentives that it has adopted, it seems to me that the government of Aleksandar Džombić in 2009, and the Encouragement Act says that at least 6% of domestic revenues of the budget will be allocated to fostering agriculture each year. 6% this year is 105 million. And you know how much is out there? 60. So the government and the National Assembly are breaking the existing law, and farmers in the Republic, not only now, they're breaking up, only in 2010 they were singled out that 6%, that was then 81 million. From 2011 to today, respected counterpart Milovanović knows it very well because he was a minister, too, is 60 million. So, the government and the National Assembly are breaking the budget knowingly of the Law and farmers have already announced an appeal to the Constitutional Court of Republika Srpska to challenge this law. In view of that, too, that the Council of Ministers, here, I have messages received by our ministers, never voted to refer this law to the urgent procedure for us. People didn't vote, they didn't vote, they didn't make that decision. As the Council of Ministers has never voted or declared to withdraw that law that is here in the ordinary procedure. The issue of constitutionality and this law is raised. What if this is adopted today? Well, BiH Constitutional Court, I'm sorry, I'm done here, says this law is unconstitutional. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Who's gonna pay the farmers back? That's why we think this should go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17181	Okay, thank you. Dear Representative Zaim backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17182	Dear Chairman, I would like to ask you to keep the irony of the MP to yourself in your comments. I've been talking for exactly two minutes, I'm not 5, 2 plus 2 and so on. There's, there's that number, and I see it well. Also, you did not warn anyone on the same subject, nor did you address them in this way. At least you have a duty to treat us the same way. If you have pets and pets or your own, don't laugh at anything, and those who are, what you call coalition partners, so you have to lift them down their hair, that's your thing. We are all equal here, in the same way we have come to this Parliament and we must be treated the same. Your irony at least is inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17183	Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oh, I'd just like to correct my colleague Backović a little bit about the relationship with the coalition partners. I think I'm the only one or one of the few who's been taken from the word, and let's just say I'm a coalition partner, so I haven't responded to that, so that's not exactly what you're saying. But I also wanted to say one comment that appeared very often in the means of information, especially in the electronic media in the last few days. The first and the breaking news was whether the colleagues from the SDA would come to the session, vote, what their conditions were, and what conditions would actually be for voting and what relationship would be with what they would look like as preconditions, which I don't think is good, and that might be particularly relevant to the discussion of fellow Sokolović that, uh, I think that might be causing public attention, and whether it should be a breaking news on all televisions, I'm not sure that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17185	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17186	I thank the chairman. A colleague of Bosić and others spoke about the transfer of jurisdiction. I don't think some colleagues know what jurisdiction means. What authority will be passed through these conclusions? Well, none. What authority, if these conclusions are adopted, will the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina get? Not a single one, nor an institution will be established, but it will not be possible to create a sector within a ministry, this one, because it is not at all a matter of jurisdiction, so these conclusions as such, or what is in them, have nothing to pass on. Those who speak of this transfer of jurisdiction need to learn what it means, but, uh, what's wrong with you, I mean, these conclusions are a dead letter on paper. It's a simple declaration all of us agree on. And you're all aware that this takes someone to justify why they're voting differently today than last time, someone to vote again just like last time, etc., and that's that. This is the whole story of these conclusions, and neither the proposings have the basis to now argue that their adoption will make them some heroes, nor those who dispute have the basis to raise national and entity tensions here by claiming that it is some sort of transfer of jurisdiction, etc. Here, I mentioned earlier the conclusion adopted in this House when excise duties were first introduced, proposed by the SDP Club, that every time the Excise Act is changed, this one will be delivered to the opinion on the effects of these changes, not that it is never respected, but here I don't even know if my SDP colleagues remember that they had this proposal and that it was adopted, I think only with one vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17187	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Milovanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17188	Thank you very much. Well, I do, my guilty quote refers to what Mrs. or Miss Pandurević said. So, last time I went over it, come on, I didn't want to go into the debate, not now, and now I have no intention of just saying this. And last time you said, and even now, there is a Law on Encouragements in Republika Srpska, which is not true, so there is no Encouragement Act in Republika Srpska, which means that the Government of Republika Srpska does not violate the Encouragement Act because it does not exist. There is a strategy on the development of agriculture in which possible isolation is defined in 6%. Well, just for the future's sake, it's just that there's no such thing as an incentive law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17189	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17190	I really think that dear fellow Milovanović, let him correct me, only thinks there is no law called the Encouragement Act. I used it briefly because the law has a very 48-long name, and it's called the Security and Guidance Act, and so it was passed in 2009, I hope you know that this Law exists, even if you were a resolute minister. As far as this discussion is concerned, Mr Bosić's claims and my untrue, you see, in this House, no MP from Republika Srpska has ever raised his hand for something that is not the authority of this Parliament under the Constitution of BiH and which puts this Parliament against the entity parliament where entities are concerned. Agriculture is the exclusive jurisdiction of an entity under the Constitution. And this Parliament cannot order the government, Republika Srpska, or the ethnic parliament, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, to do so, although we are not satisfied with how they work. Time... then why do we have the National Assembly and the Federation Parliament if we're going to do their job? We can't, so we don't have constitutional authority, and nothing obliges them to do, and well said fellow Arnaut, these conclusions are a dead letter on paper. Not because it is the aim of the conjecture promoter, but because they are not binding on anyone. Which they do not commit either to the Federation government, to the government of Republika Srpska or to the entity parliaments, because it is their constitutional jurisdiction. The only way we can solve this is if the law goes into a regular procedure, that it's being modified and that we in the Excise Act, and the other laws, put the amendments here, which we could already do today. If those laws from last session came to us here, it could have been over today that someone wanted to, but obviously we got these laws, so we all know, let's tell the truth, we got these laws because it was the SNSD's ultimatum to unblock the House of Peoples and so quickly entered the SNSD to unblock the House of Peoples, No matter what was contrary to the Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17191	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17192	The chairman, Article 7(1) of the Code, prescribes that you are telling the truth. Mrs. Pandurević suggested the conclusions adopted by this House to form an investigative commission to investigate something that happened in the Milic mines, absolutely not..., and then something really happened, there was an investigation committee, researching an entity mine, it was a real transfer of jurisdiction, so this, uh, absolutely doesn't stand what you were saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17193	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17194	Mr. Chairman, I have one question, therefore - which is why a member of our Rules of Procedure we can now discuss and have the opportunity to plead on the conclusions concerning the matter which we will discuss in an urgent procedure, which we should plead upon by an urgent procedure? So can you just explain it to us, because you see where this debate is going? Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17195	So, the College at the head with me runs this session and takes care of every aspect and you will get every answer at the time when it is necessary to give those answers. Now, what have you signed up for, not following the established agenda? Secretary, how are things here? [[Common discussion]] The word has a respected representative, Borislav Bojić, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17197	Just for a Arnaut while, I remind him, since he is very careful about the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and does not miss any chance to explain it. Dear fellow Arnaut, Article 2. The BiH Constitution, division – human rights, that is, what you were talking about... and you have point 1. Human rights – Bosnia and Herzegovina and both entities will provide the highest level of international, recognised, human rights, etc. We've called on Article 2. The BiH Constitution, the authority is the responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope you're okay with that. Therefore, what you said to Mrs Pandurević, and regarding the conduct of the procedure in Milic, is not correct, not to say a harsh word because you deserve far more harsh findings.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17198	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17199	Here, I'll, unlike my colleagues and colleagues, discuss emergency procedures, so what's on the agenda, uh, at least a little bit for a change, and then we'll do it again. I'd ask first, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Zvizdić, but here's the secretary, or I guess it's the secretary. I don't know if you've been a secretary since 2015, so there are certain urenities to the Council of Ministers, because as far as I know, a competition has been called for the appointment of a new secretary, and the Council of Ministers has had to deliver two members of the appointment committee. However, for two years you have not responded to the State Service Agency's emergency and the appointment of a new secretary is delayed. And yet, I'm also going to quote Minister Jusk, the other day he was on a show, I don't know on which television, which says that for this session, the secretary of the Council of Ministers has been informed by SMS and that they should vote on an emergency procedure and changes that are not essential, but we need to change some dates and some marks. So you're putting the same law we refused, sending us here in an emergency procedure for which there is no basis and no need to be in emergency procedures and working on force, rape regulations, rape laws and all that we have in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is no need for the urgency of this Act, and there is no need, because the money from excises and excises will be spent, as it has been so far, to patch up budget gaps, to get out of entity companies for road construction and use on, I don't know, building roads for officials' cottages and similar things. So far, no meter or highway has been built, so you don't have a chance for a year and a half to build a single meter, because you won't be able to safely take these funds, nor will you use them for purpose, nor as you think you can use them. So I'm calling on all my colleagues, especially those who are rebelling, these fellow Tuzlan cantons who I call, who will vote and what they will support this Law, although no meter of roads are built in Tuzlan canton, I call on everyone to reject this emergency procedure and, of course, in a regular procedure to act amendmentally but in a way, for example. to introduce an excise of one fening new and to introduce a toll of one fenning on this law, so let them build.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17200	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17201	Well, here, I will, therefore, be having a little discussion. What's this, what's the emergency? Niko one here has ever told us why these laws are again today. And I agree with my colleague Damir these are the same laws, so today, by emergency procedure. I would really like to hear what in this way is trying, uh, in one way, not to say another word, a way in Parliament to make these people feel this way. You're the chairman said, so you're determining and you're going to give an answer and you're, as it is called, uh, authorized to do that kind of work, but you're authorized to let us who are sitting here, so whoever we've chosen you, answer our specific demands and specific questions so that everyone can get out of this, so, because for me, it's a disaster that we've come into a position around this kind of logical stuff that we're not going to say rape, we're being arrogant, we're turning our hands so fast, if it doesn't all go away for a very long time, everything else comes into question. So that's why I had to ask if this was the same law? We need someone to tell us whether or not, if we don't have to tell you what's different and what's actually the condition that it's today, that it needs to go through an emergency procedure today. If the same laws, how can two of them be the same, how can there be two laws in the parliamentary procedure at the same time? What is today, what I think we should not go into emergency procedures and what we need to achieve about this is broader, so we need to talk more widely, and we need to find ourselves on those principles that we can all support to build roads, and that we also have to satisfy what is fundamentally needed to change in this country, which is a relationship. One balanced development of the whole country and a relationship to the most vulnerable categories, including farmers. So, what's today, you don't need this to go by emergency procedure. Today's economic policy and today's leaders are new loans. So here we see, here we are talking about new IMF loans again, new debt. In the last two years, we've paid a billion and a half, a billion and a half Marks to foreign lenders. There are other provisions and excises, so this is what we're talking about today. There are third inspections for those companies and for those businesses that have no political protection. We hear this every day from people who do business in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the fourth is the funds that diaspora sends to the family in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's about 3 billion marks a year, and here you are all witnesses here who are sitting, you are witnesses and you are the chairman, that for two years please, so my colleague Emrić today mentioned one of these things about these border crossings, two years to ensure a decent transition of people now between two and three hours waiting at the border crossing. These are my neighbors, my cousins, my friends, my fellow citizens, so this country has made this country come out and now, two, two, three hours at a time, and we're not, and they're sending three billion marks a year to their family to survive, and we're not able to make these people one, as they call it, tape that I can cross the border with dignity. And now you're telling us that this is a solution, there's no European path, there's no, what's-his-name, the road, there's no highway if they don't make a new impose on this people. So this is really a completely wrong, unacceptable policy, in my opinion one policy without any strategy, without any vision, a clear policy that, today, this should serve to sustain 51 of these governments. Here's two years of examples for what today's analysis is, how many of these highways we've done over the last two years. We've had these for two and a half years... We announced on that reform agenda that we're going to have a billion marks, uh, foreign ones, that we're going to have foreign investments of a billion marks. We've got twice as much. For example, Albania, which is five times smaller than us, has four times more investment than us or Montenegro, which is five times smaller, has twice as much foreign investment as we do. So it's about governments, that's what he's capable of, not like. So we formed, we named and made governments as we called them. These leaders who run this country lead in this way and the result of what they're running are those numbers, they're your numbers. So to survive, let's do another new imposition today on people, by emergency procedure, without any possibility of getting anything men fix... And so, therefore, why today is defeated to talk about this again in this way, here's 15 days gone by. I have to say, it's not me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me. And what was done in the meantime? It's been working with some people who've been trying to do something, what's-his-name, make a deal, rip it out. Here, this session today will pass, we should all move on, we should live, each of us should respond to what he does and how he does. And I assure you that in this country, there must be a different, fairer policy, different politicians who will not, who will lead politics, not to grow taxes, impose and excise taxes, but to grow pensions and wages. And I guarantee you it's possible to do that. And that's why I don't think that this is supposed to go into emergency procedures today, and that there's room in the regular procedure for us to do something good for everyone in this country. If anyone thinks this should be done in this way, uh, pushing, of course, I'll be against it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17202	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mensura Beganović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17203	I thank the chairman. So we're talking emergency procedure. Since August last year, where's the urgency? So, I really think that the amendment to the Law that you offered us today at this session compared to the previous one, so it offends common sense, nothing has changed between us and the same law that we put in our regular procedure at last session today by emergency procedure. I don't know where that pressure ends with the representatives of this tall House. And now, as for the urgent procedure of a law that speaks of increasing excise duties and burdens on citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, businessmen, farmers, we justify the IMF's request that we be able to get bigger credits. So we urgently need to pass a law that these two things that lead us as a state into an even greater dubiosis, an even greater responsibility you expect us to support. I will remind you of a few things that, by my assessment and common sense, I would say, should long ago be the subject of an emergency adoption or emergency session of this House of Representatives, which are strategies, sectoral strategies that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have. Of the 35 sectoral strategies we have only one that is the Transport Strategy adopted thanks to the minister from this, from the Democratic Front who managed to push it through this House in time. We can say that it's a strategy that is a set of strategies of two entity strategies, but that's irrelevant, it's adopted. So, when we adopt strategic documents at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina whether they're laws or strategies then we have a political will problem, 52 lack of political will, we have a problem with the transfer of competence, but when we adopt one of these laws and with a reason that it's a law that opens up space for us to continue borrowing with the IMF and then it's no longer a matter of transfer of jurisdiction, it's not the question that we're a state-level authority from entities, so it's not clear to me that they are so different thoughts and so different archaics of these colleagues and colleagues who think so. I'll just remind you of one, to say the argument that I personally had the opportunity to experience in this House, in 2.5 years' time, how much we've been sitting on any strategic document that is necessary to access the funds of pre-accession funds as a Member State, as a country preparing for membership in the European Union, no document has been adopted that would open up a space for funds that are so, to say, safe when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we don't pay attention to that. I am the Minister of Economic Relations, Foreign Trade and Economic Relations on two occasions asking how much Bosnia and Herzegovina loses directly in financial terms due to the lack of documents, strategic documents at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That was tens of millions of euros. We continue to do so, here we will now have the sanctions of the Energy Community which, which will cost us, will continue to have a problem with the placement of our energy sources outside our own, our electricity beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore we do not need an emergency session or emergency procedure. So I really don't understand how it is possible for us to agree in this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina very simply when it comes to the greater burden of citizens, when it comes to the greater borrowing of Bosnia and Herzegovina to loans from the IMF, however attractive and cheap they seem, and we don't care that they promote the funds available to us as a country preparing for membership in the European Union. So, I won't support that in any way. And as far as these conclusions are concerned, which have been offered today, I cannot understand that someone can come with a conclusion such as Conclusion 5 - to launch more intensive activities in the public administration reform sector, and to provide the savings needed for budgetary balance. We've already had public administration reform as a subject of discussion here in this House, and you know what this public administration reform has come down to for 10 years now, it's unfortunate but it's a fact. So, one conclusion that will stop, which will address the lack of funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget due to, by resolving through public administration reform, I don't think the syllabus makes any sense. Otherwise, I don't think we should have discussed the conclusions in the context of an emergency procedure, but later on, if the proposal goes by the emergency procedure, the debate on this set of laws, then we should also discuss these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17204	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it's time to say something in front of a party that's very serious and responsible, so unlike some political entities that have been in this story for years, and in strategies and decisions to finance and work the highway, and now, and even some colleagues who are now saying otherwise have even participated and knew what this is going to come up with. If I'd been in it myself and participated I'd be looking for fast roads, highways, railways, maybe not for the highway at all. But here's what we have, so that's why I'm saying we're a serious and responsible party, and now you have a debate on emergency 53 procedures. What emergency procedure when we've had a set of these laws half a year ahead of us, can he be any different? Those measures proposed by the conclusions can probably be resolved by some other law and some other solutions and they only serve here for, what some colleagues have already said here. And I don't particularly understand colleagues who have been able to resolve these amendments and those solutions in the last six months, as far as we are concerned, through their members of the Council of Ministers. But come on, I kind of understand the colleagues who are from the opposition, so maybe they didn't have a chance so they're looking for that chance in some sort of regular procedure. As far as we're concerned, we will support, and we supported, and emergency procedure and regular procedure, so it's clear to us, we're a responsible party, that such regulations must be passed. And this morning, there was a debate, and I'm just going to remind my colleague from the opposition that I have to tell them a little bit, when she asked when we'd be a member of the WTO, and then she wondered when we'd respect the Istanbul Convention, so we'd be members of the European Union, so NATO, that's all. So, if you won't, gentlemen, this is a voluntary membership, if you want to go out voluntarily, if you think that with our own resources and our own capacities we can get Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to be equal economic actors of the European Union then there is no..., let's stop all of this and work with our own resources, work with our own forces, and it's okay, so we'll make ourselves proud and happy. We probably can't do that, so we've gotten into a lot of stories, including this one, because we can't go on alone, and we all want to be members of that, so we're all asking the question when, when, which we don't respect, we're going to go slowly, and now, when we need to, so, now, we're going to make a tough decision, I appeal, so I won't say that I don't care, so I repeat again we are the responsible party and we will support any procedure for the law to be passed. But here, and to help in some way, although it is not the time, and I expected it to be in the debate, so perhaps all this question about this conclusion could be resolved by one conclusion which we are proposing, and it could read just as much as I will comment on it – it is the Council of Ministers that within six months informs the Parliamentary House of BiH of Parliament on the positive and negative effects of the application of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Excises of BiH and that for negative effects it prepares measures to eliminate these effects. It might be some of these conclusions that colleagues have suggested, when we see and when we get some information. I know that this conclusion will also be difficult for the Council of Ministers to implement, so that it informs us, but here we can borrow them and expect them to tell us and then deal with some measures that are even mentioned in these conclusions. I hope that maybe this could be a solution, so, here are the colleagues who, by this conclusion, might support these laws, so we can see in the end as responsible people to inform us, which was one conclusion from before, what about the excises of those earlier being, that we finally get informed about how money is spent, why is spending, what are the effects, positive, negative, etc. I think that would be the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17206	Thank you. Dear Representative Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17207	My replica is to Mr. Lovrinović who said that I based mostly on my own resources. I did not rely solely on my own resources in this commentation on why 54 we are in debt, but on the funds that are potentially available to us if we adopt the relevant documents, strategic documents at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for different sectors. And we're simply losing a lot of resources at our disposal, not applying to them because we don't have a right, we're gonna lose them, and at the same time we're in debt. I'm thinking as one serious person, as a serious housekeeper, let's just say, first I'll use all the internal reserves, and then I'll be in charge. We're in debt very easily, someone will return it, I don't, maybe my children, maybe my grandchildren or yours, so it doesn't make sense. In this country we started to act as the opposite of that people's - complex brothers are building houses, here – the complex brothers of Bosnia and Herzegovina are breaking down. And I really don't think this makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17208	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17209	I thank the chairman. Replica refers to fellow Lovrinović, um, primarily not knowing how to interpret that he comes from a serious political party, that is, how to define in this case seriousness, and on the other hand, since he said that, behold, we are based and that my colleague was managed only by our own means. To remind them, since the gentleman comes from a serious political party and probably has serious representatives from the same serious political party in the Council of Ministers, to ask them why we failed in this mandate, or to reach an agreement to withdraw 20 to 30m euros of IPA funds in order to work on the infrastructure and improve Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole. And the other thing is why at the level of the year we raise total funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina based on registration, i.e. toll close to 220 million KM and the question arises where are these funds, or our own funds and why we haven't built the highways at least one centimeter away.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17210	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17211	Thank you. So, to answer the question to my colleagues, so I said, I think you misunderstood, this morning you asked – what are we going to be a member of the WTO? A fellow minister told you, therefore, what it means and what it takes to make us become one. All processes, therefore, are in what we have entered, and these are Euro-Atlantic processes and they require denials, making difficult decisions, preparing systems, etc., so all this means. And what you've been saying is strategies, so let's bring them in. As for this serious party we're about to bring. So, but, but I'll remind you, at last session when it was an emergency procedure, a colleague from the Alliance for Change said, you know, I don't know anyone's replicated her, if you see, you see -- we, fortunately from Republika Srpska, have mechanisms to protect ourselves, and colleagues here from the Federation parliamentary majority have hands, and we have nothing, we have nothing. So, as far as we're concerned, we're prepared to bring these strategies, as far as we're concerned, we're prepared to pass this law, take 55 responsibility, take responsibility, so, well, you're not a member of this parliamentary majority right now, I respect that, but, well, then don't ask in any other committee to be a member of this morning's Istanbul and so on. You want to be a member, so you need to know and be responsible, and you can't do this now, I won't do this. So that's what I'm talking about. Of course, if we can do it ourselves, that was the point, if we can do it ourselves, so we don't need it this time at all. A colleague from one of the parliaments in Brussels said – Mr. membership here is voluntary, voluntary entry, voluntary exit, if you think you can provide your people in your own country with economic prosperity by your own means, if you don't need to talk to us, if you can't come here, but here are the rules. Please, so I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17212	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17213	I thank the chairman. Well, here we probably went broadly into the subject, the topic is an emergency procedure or not, we went into discussions about international monetary funds, about loans, etc., etc. I think we're chasing pears and apples and now we're in a phase where I don't really see the end anymore. What I think is important here is that, therefore, why it is an emergency procedure. The emergency procedure is because the world market capital price is very low, the capital price is up to 0.7%, the International Monetary Fund is needed for these reasons and the infrastructure is needed for these reasons. And when it comes to DF colleagues, the answer to the question why the International Monetary Fund and IPA programmes are not, or the IPA programmes are not in operation, is simply a reason, because such investment cycles are not funded by IPA programmes. So that's a simple reason and there's no, what's needed at this point is loans, public works are needed and it's necessary... this is how it works. And I think an emergency procedure is really necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17214	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, non-compliance with the established agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17215	I would ask the President-in-Office that, before any MP enters the debate, you tell him that it is the agenda, that we are currently discussing the procedure, not the IPA funds, not the International Monetary Fund, not these conclusions, not about, not about, not about, not about, about, about, about, but about the procedure. And by the way, my dear colleague, it's the most expensive life of citizens, and all of us doing this to make their lives difficult, not easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17216	I, Mr. Backović, fully respect what you said and I support and very seriously, am many times bored, if you look at the stenograms as I chair this 56 House, ask the MPs that when they discuss the procedure they discuss the procedure, when it is about the essence of the essence, when it is the correction of the wrong allegation to say what it is, when it is an injury to the Rules of Procedure to say what provision is injured, when it is not keeping the agenda, so many times I have said it, believe me, there is no chairman who can manage it in a way that everything here is ideal if there is no co-operation of his colleagues and colleagues. And I, using Mr Backović's remarks, really invite all my colleagues and colleagues to follow these provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Now, the word has a respected representative Damir Bećivorić, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17217	I must also react to what my esteemed colleague Isaković said, so I would ask him to come out on our behalf and explain to the citizens how low the price of capital is on the international market. And I also ask, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, Article 90, that the vote on this item of the agenda be carried out by calling.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17218	Thank you very much. Let the services record everything, let the preparations be answered with the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17219	Mr. Chairman, I think that we would be like... I sometimes feel really, uh, bad about your calling us as your colleagues and colleagues that we don't adhere to what you are doing and you are leading this House right now, so here I would like to personally invite you as someone who is chairing this House, why did you allow Mr. Mehmedović to discuss his proposed conclusions first, and not to let him, to tell him that he has injured Article 133 point 3) where only after we have declared the urgency of this Law, or the proposal, then Mr. Mehmedović could discuss his conclusions. So, here there are double arches, I think it's personal to me why you allowed it and why you had to go out to meet Mr. Mehmedović who can hardly have some alibi to justify himself to the public and I understand the reason, but it is not correct that you are then calling us not to observe, or that the slow work and dignity of this House is damaged because we as your colleagues and colleagues do not adhere to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17220	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17221	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm going to say a few words, although I've said my thoughts in my statements before, which is why this, this legal solution should not go into an emergency procedure and that we need to talk about this legal solution, and finally here is this emergency procedure that's been going on for a year and a half. So, just in that year and a half, uh, on the way, we realized that we needed a debate about 57 of this law we could have ended this matter long ago through a regular procedure, and here we are still a year and a half in emergency procedure. But what's happening to us today is now a special thing, um, I'm going to say, what, I've been listening to this in some humorous shows by some actors, they say - the tenacity is the virtue of perseverance. Here's the Council of Ministers and the College very insistent on pushing this into our emergency procedure. As an MP, I feel deceived because here at the last session I voted against an emergency procedure and today I should have discussed the Law in a regular procedure. Why is it not, what are the prenuptials, how many times has the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Peoples, that only Bog dear knows, no one in this country knows it anymore, except a few individuals who have an interest in getting the money as soon as possible. And that's why they need excises, and the concessions can't, not because they can't manage those funds, to be clear, this one. What do we need to talk about? Here, if you have noticed colleagues and fellow MPs, biofuels and biohazard has been applied, it has not been an opportunity so far. Which is why we who have signed, signed this, this action plan for the use of renewable energy now put excises on biofuels and biodiversity, and we have an obligation through this Action Plan to lower tax incentives to popularise biofuel consumption and biodiversity. We're raising the excise duty, but look at why, because, it says, there's been an abuse. In 2013, 500 thousand gallons, 2014, two million, were spent,... suspected of mixing into this second fuel. So is the excise settlement being made, is anyone in this country getting paid to control it? Are we gonna fire those inspectors, what are they doing, what are they getting paid for? Here are the MPs, we'll raise the excise and then we won't have that abuse anymore, etc. And this is why we don't need to discuss this legal solution, discuss it in an emergency procedure. But here's how this common sense is lagging behind in the work of this Parliamentary Assembly, and I said well last time, telephone us, let us know that we vote in such a way that we don't spend money, not even time, we have some other obligations, on the phone – are you an ambulance, I'm not, and we have a legal solution after all. And this is why, let's say, the good suggestions of Mr., Mr. Mehmedović and Ahmetović, this, if the law were to be passed, as proposals, are as good as suggestions. However, they are inconclusive, here most MPs have said. And here I'll read you, I'll read you the letter that you all got, and remind you, from Mr. Senad Oraščanin, uh, Senad's countryman from Cazin, here in that division of obligations between me and Senad, I took this part to say, where finely standing – federal authorities have significantly reduced our incentives for agriculture in the last three years, with a payment of more than half a year, and some have not yet been paid incentives for 2014. What we need to bring, that some other Senad or this same Senad, if he survives all of this, writes a letter saying that you adopted the excise, you increased our fuel price, but we still don't have the realization of these conclusions. The letter goes on to say – the introduction of a blue diesel has been promising since 2010 and has not yet been introduced, while our competitions from neighbouring countries and countries of the European Union have blue diesel long years. [[Employee is warned on time]] Are our farmers currently competitive on the... market or what is going to happen, I apologize, what will happen if excises are increased, certain corrections are not carried out? Agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina will no longer be and we will eat food from Serbia, Croatia, other European countries as we will buy this fur from all over the European Union. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17222	Thank you. Dear, distinguished representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17223	Just an answer to Mr Bećirović, I'm sorry he's gone, of course I'm ready to talk about the price of capital, you know, and the time value of money, but no country has, has developed infrastructure without credit. Of course, there are other sources of funding such as public-private partnership, concessions, etc., but these are the most expensive funds. In this consolidation of relations, the time value of money and other elements that match the Agenda, the entry of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union, we think this is the most rational solution, this, and there is no problem talking about the time value of money, therefore, and the value of capital. That's the least of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17224	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17225	Well, I just wanted to say to my colleague Sokolović that this letter he mentioned here, I'm a big fan of handing it over to SIPA, so that's because that gentleman put out a series of threats to the MPs personally, and he has a colleague, as you said, upstairs Senad Šepić, who may have been involved in all these stories, so let him talk to him, let him not threaten us others because we are doing our job.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17226	Thank you very much. A distinguished representative, the esteemed representative Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17227	I didn't understand what it's called, my colleague Lovrinović, I wanted to do another thing just to react to my colleague Mirsad Isaković. So it's not disputed that one way to build it is to develop credits. The key problem these people are looking for today, Mirsade, is to fix this and make this look different, which we are aware that we have incompetent governments who won't, they don't know, they can't do. It's a key thing. So these governments, look at the statements of our main leaders, in two years you have statements 75 times the federal leaders said that the Federation of BiH will be the largest construction site in 2016. mirso's gone, there's no meter road, so here I'm talking about, don't cheat on us, this is that, this is to hire people again to actually make those governments work. Here's what you just heard, what my noun is called, from Cazin, asking to support this blue diesel story, since 2009, these governments have been promising these people since 2009 to make them a solution. How will you trust these governments? And today you're sitting here in Parliament, adopting to give them two billion more to keep them doing it the way they do. Well, I really don't think that makes any sense, and of course I'm against being threatened by anyone, it's Nikola.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17228	Thank you very much. 59 Dear, distinguished representative of Diana Zelenika, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17229	I thank the chairman. Here, I'll make sure I don't talk about the measure of the law, and I hope I can talk about it at one of the regular sessions, that this emergency procedure won't go away. So with a few sentences I will address the urgency of the procedure as a responsible person, as a representative of my party very responsible, although my colleague by the number of accounts my own, but I think that every party that has representatives in Parliament at all levels is a very serious and responsible party. Of course, the chairman doesn't listen to me, but I still think he's very serious and responsible. As my colleague Beganović said, in part, and fellow Sokolović, a little while ago that August was about 8 months ago, and then for God's sake means on April 5th, suddenly the urgency of the procedure after 8 months of believing everyone inexplicably, and we know that after the Council of Ministers referred to the urgent procedure of this bill, we know that last time this Parliament, or the House of Representatives, did not support it. After that, the promoters changed a few points and the score seems to have some sort of arrangement, not to use some rougher expression, the dildos, they might have thought they had a majority in this House of Representatives. Of course, on these deals and deals, I as an advocate, and I believe neither the citizens will have a chance to find out anything, but all of this points to trade, although as one of the main arguments for the adoption of one of these tax collection laws, the implementation of the Reform Agenda voted for by the HDZ 1990s that I represent here. However, if we have already opted for the Reform Agenda, then I wonder why selectivity and I wonder that, in the past, according to experience, no strategy has been proposed to fight corruption. However, we are kindly helped to put in charge, not only of our children, but also of my grandchildren, although there are many other solutions to the construction of the highway. If I get a chance today, if I don't hope in some regular procedure, I'll suggest one of those solutions. So I just want to say in the end that I personally as a very responsible person and a party that I represent, perhaps not as temperamentally as my colleague Lovrinović, but I want to say that we will not support either the rush procedure or the excise tax law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17230	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, you know here it's very interesting that the government, I don't defend power, the government has shown its incompetence, one deep political mistrust, and if you would listen to all these proposals and discussions I don't think you could ever get out of any result that could be a solution to improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But what is absurd is that individuals who were part of that government and actively participated in that government in the last ten years are the most fierce critics of that government. Why now, all of a sudden, these criticisms show up. I think 60 should be kept in mind that they have also participated and why they did not improve that power at the time they were part of the government.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17232	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17233	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Fine, when watched separately, there are reasoned discussions, but not built. And what's in it for citizens and this country? I'm about to build, build fast and mass. The Alliance for a Better Future insists on it. The matter is based on a condition, construction conditions the growth of the economy and construction prevents us from being isolated from the environment. Corridor 5c is the only international traffic link in our country. And in order to achieve all this in relation to what we have lagging behind, where we are today with the development of infrastructure, it is realistic that we need urgency both in procedures and in the execution of works, and that we need to apply more models, and excises, and concessions and public-private partnerships. And it's older than anything that worries us and anything that will produce negative consequences. They will be, but I'm convinced that they are less than what the consequences would be of non-building and isolation. I would have had a different approach on this subject if I were a promoter. I would say that we understand what this can do in the lateral action, that this is why we have taken appropriate activities with entity levels and that we will ensure that, in the context of the coordination mechanism, things are compensated economically and socially. I would also say that, because of what the public is complaining about how these funds will be spent and directed, we will establish a special form of transparency of the spending of these funds and I would suggest to this Parliament that it form a special body to monitor the spending of these funds in order to restore people's trust. I'd say one more thing, you know, since it's all going to have an impact on the individual and we're going to provide, through the oneness governments, that the population that lives in the freeway zone can be used by road across the vinjets that will be more favourable and cheaper to compensate in that way. We understand that a life called construction produces adequate burdens, but it has no alternative to construction, and that is why we need to adopt this approach and start building. Excises provide guarantees only for part of the funds and part of the construction. It must be easily accessed by other forms. I suggest we adopt this today.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17234	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17235	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I think we here first of all have to solve a dilemma about whether the Council of Ministers actually referred these laws to an emergency procedure? We have people here who can give us answers to these questions. I was with Honorable Minister Mektić on one of our Municipal Committees, at the meeting, the night that the famous phone SMS session was held. When we left the meeting, the man showed me the messages, the session was already finished, he didn't even see them, he was just informed about the outcome of the vote, and neither did our two ministers at all were in a position or seen because the session was at 21 and I don't know how much, and in that SMS message he says – please state 61 of the Excise Bill Draft, the Bill on Deposit Insurance Agency. There are no questions about the urgency of the procedure, as there was no question of whether those old laws were withdrawn. Some other ministers may have received these questions, we do not know, but here I am on behalf of Republika Srpska ministers, there is also Minister Mektić can confirm, arguing that Republika Srpska ministers did not get a question about the urgency of the procedure and the withdrawal of previous laws. And without the... vote of the minister of the order of Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, the Council of Ministers could not make such a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17236	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17237	Mrs. Majkić, you have a key, press, call, please warn that people don't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17238	Yeah, sure, don't throw each other away. Go ahead, move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17239	Because if we're right, well, that's for sure we'll appeal to the Constitutional Court if these laws are passed. Even such a Constitutional Court cannot then say that something has been brought in, which the Council of Ministers has never spoken of. And we don't argue if there are most hands in the Council of Ministers to invite a nice session, sitting ministers, voting, saying go to emergency procedure, no problem, go to emergency procedure, come here. But you have to vote on it. You can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't send and say this is an emergency And I want, here, today answers here who, whether the Council of Ministers has spoken of emergency procedures and who voted in favour of this emergency procedure, whether the Council of Ministers and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers have been respected. Also respected fellow Sokolović, in one of his own, seems to me, a replica mentioned other sources to build roads, that there is no need to rush. Well, the best example for that is the new Zagreb airport. A 300m-euro investment, no stamp, no credit, no debt. But you know what else is there? You don't even have the possibility of talowe and mud in the tender. Let's say that we don't want alternative sources so that some of us can get into tenders. Republika Srpska's highways that should be managed by these funds have not submitted a Financial Business Report in 2015. On what basis do we trust them? Or the Federation road that's piling up, they've got 300 employees there, and now they're back on something. Do we trust these people to be given these funds? And not to mention how much we're going to damage farmers who are at the same time facing an adaptable Stabilisation and Association Agreement and cannot deal with their consequences, not to speak... of our poor citizens, how much it costs them. Half a month's salary on the annual level. Why don't we say so? Do we have other means of keeping our hands off the citizens' pocket, or we won't, but some obviously intend to stick their hand in the citizens' pocket? And third, I really don't see, I don't think anyone cares here or the IMF. Republika Srpska President said yesterday that Republika Srpska's only one in the region has reduced its debt from 3.2 billion to 6 billion (?So we're reducing the debt, we don't need the IMF. Please let us fix what can be fixed, that the amendment, that the law goes into regular procedure, that the amendment works on it, that we do no more damage than benefits. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17240	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17241	I have to correct my colleague Pandurević, she said that in the Federation Roads, 300 were employed, not but 68 new people were employed in the Federation highways in the last year, and also there was a man who had one of the largest tax evasions in the Zenic-Doboj canton, where HDZ, which he otherwise owes, owed to his company 12 million KM for VAT. And now you people need to give 150 million a year to run, so enough is enough to talk about yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17242	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17243	The debate, the debate, whether we support the procedure as planned or we'll do something else. If this is the debate then, given that I am from the political party BPS Sefer, Bosnia and Herzegovina's patriotic party Sefer Halilović, who is a socially sensitive, social democratic orientation, we will not support this time of law-proposing, or I will not support it. If it were in a regular procedure and we had the right to react without a doubt, we would go into improvement and find a way out of this. In the last session when we also discussed the same law, I asked three or four questions, expecting that my esteemed friends from the Council of Ministers would find strength, courage, and knowledge would probably have, and answer a few things. What about the excises that exist now, where are they and how are they spent? Have any of us ever seen a report of how it was spent? That's what everyone on TV says -- it's never. That's right. That was the other night at Duška Jurišić's and the gentlemen say never. Has anyone ever, ever wondered why we don't already have highways? Inside the structure of the U.S.A., you need to ask yourself that well, okay. When Mahathir, now listen to me gentlemen well, when Mahathir came with a business delegation to Malaysia, representatives of the largest company in Asia to build highways... with the owner and president... headed. Bring in a guarantee and hand over a 500 million dollar guarantee with a studio to build the 5c corridor highway, gentlemen. Mr. Bičakčić, who was Prime Minister of the Government, did not even take into consideration, but laid the cornerstone, I do not want to mention the name of the French firm, nor the name, because it robbed Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and ultimately wanted both Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it went down, this Malaysian thing went down, too, and they were ready to do it. This is part of the discussion, when it comes to the law, I have this hecta, but this is the procedure now, so since you took me those 10 minutes, to take advantage of this. So it's not true that there are no sources of resources, it's not true, because that same one... was struck twice by the ears in this country. He built the roads, the highways of India, the South African Republic, not to count the states now, but in Bosnia he couldn't, and here we sold 300 dulms of land to start building, and when we put it on him, we said you couldn't build a problem with the plane corridor, because of the plane landing lighting. But that's who we are. However, since it belongs to that list of billionaires in the world very high, it is him as if my hair had fallen out of my head. And we won't, but we want 63 of our citizens to be in trouble or because of our own pocket. Because you explain to me how generously the company we're giving to run that stock of Yoshanica down to, according to the Horseman, that tunnel, which still means no, can generously share donations. He doesn't share in his money donations, but from what was overpaid for the formal construction of the highway, overpaid. [[Employee is warned on time]] And we did it in the meantime. We're going to fold up our domestic companies Hidrogradnja, Vranica, Bosnia, GP Road, and so on. [[Employee is warned on time]] And become vasals and work for wages from
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17244	Thank you. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17245	in his own land,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17246	Thank you. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17247	And we give them millions to carry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17248	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17249	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17250	Thank you for the procedure, Mr. Backović. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17251	I thank the chairman. To me, the absolutely unclear claim by counterpart Pandurević, who said earlier in her discussion that the proposals of the Excise Act and these accompanying laws were adopted at the Council of Ministers without a vote to go to one Serbian minister, and on the other hand, all of the SDS Club insist on the same laws. So, one total illogicality. If it is the same laws, and this is how Mrs Pandurević explains her claim that Serbian ministers did not vote in favour of these laws, then explains a statement from the 62nd Council of Ministers session, held on 29.06.2016, where the Council of Ministers said it unanimously laid down the draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, payments to a single account, so these following laws. So, the fact is that in the sixth month of last year, three of the Ministers of the Alliance for Change, Mr. Mektić, Mr. Šarović and this third flying minister of Crnadak, voted in favour of all these bill proposals. And the SDS itself says these are the same laws from June last year. Well, I don't understand this inconsistency right now. I also discussed earlier, some people need an excuse to explain why they will vote differently today than they voted last time, and some, such as Mr Ahmetović, why they will vote just as they voted last time. You see, in some serious candidate countries 64 fell, there was one candidate for the president of a large country whose candidacy was literally cut because he had one guff on TV where he said - I voted because before I voted against it. And then he made fun of it. Unfortunately, we are still not at this stage of democratic development, unfortunately you can still vote for something before you vote against, etc., etc., but, uh, at least then be honest with the citizens when you put your views here, because I was just a moment ago even the business intervention was forced to use to point out that Mrs. Pandurević is simply not telling the truth. I mean, look, this is where national and entity tensions are raised by talking about the transfer of jurisdiction. National tensions arise with the story that Serbian ministers did not support excise laws. That's not true. All three, including the flying one, voted in favour of excise laws, even so, even landed at that session to vote, even though it rarely landed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there, for these needs it landed in Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote in favour of the Excise Law. Therefore, raising national tensions for these things is absolutely unacceptable. Guys, stop that, stop that. It's easy to unite, isn't it? I just mentioned the names of three different nations when it comes to maintaining the privileges of these vehicles accompanied by ambulances, and then here you switch and raise national tensions. I'm saying, when I say you're raising, etc., they know very well who I mean, uh, and I don't speak in general. And I really urge it to stop. The main point of the excise duty not imposed, as excise duties were introduced with only one vote against 8 years ago, excise duties only increase, fuel remains, fuel prices among the lowest in the region, and the main point of the excise is the construction of highways, which will benefit all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And be assured most farmers, the most farmers will benefit from highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look, wherever the highways were built, farmers benefited because they place their products on the market faster and more efficiently. Therefore, leave the talk of entity, transfer of jurisdiction, Serbian ministers, etc., because it is simply not true. Well, my people are denying you a statement from the Council of Ministers and you're making such claims again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17252	Thank you very much. Let's move on now, please pay attention, the concentration is dropping, so we're going to finish this item on the agenda, we're going to vote on conclusions and procedures, and then we're going to take a break after that. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17253	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't know why, uh, very often there's a need to mention Mr. Arnaut and, or quote me how I'm going to vote, so. And logically, I haven't changed politics in my political career, and if you compare Mr. Arnaut's policy from the time he was a member of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina when historical projects for this country were torn down and with these decisions that we're making today, it's completely incomparable. So, historical mistakes and daily political mistakes are a big, big difference. The truth is, I have a dilemma because I'm thinking about what's good for the state and for the construction of infrastructure, but I also know the state of those who live on the edge of existence, and Mr. Arnaut doesn't know that. So I'm responsible for saying he doesn't know. If money comes to any of this charge called excise duty most in this period of the story that we're going to build will probably be sold to those cornerstones, I don't know where they are produced, and I'm convinced, given that next year is an election year, that next to each border we'll have one cornerstone, and whoever sets it, probably whoever gets closer to the stone. Thank you very much. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17254	Thank you. Dear Representative Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17255	Since Mr. Arnaut is incorrigible, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17256	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17257	Mr. Špirić, don't throw it away because I have a lot to say to you, too, since Mr. Backović is from SNSD, so you see him and discuss that part of the story. So, uh, Mr. Arnaut is indeed... impossible and correcting so many false allegations that the gentleman has spoken. What I'm saying is, Mrs. Pandurević was really talking about facts, based on facts, not on facts, as you say, from the Council of Ministers' statement. The facts, Mr. Arnaut, are being discussed by the competent institutions and make sure they discuss the competent institutions. It is known who will be competent to determine whether decisions have been made in a legitimate way or not in a legitimate manner. Your claim that the statement is an exact fact, not what Mrs. Pandurević says is indeed something that is not worth commenting on. I don't know why you're just being tolerated by the chairman to call the foreign minister ugly. So, it doesn't make sense, you should treat the Minister of Foreign Affairs with respect, not call him a flying man. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Džaferović, not to tolerate what Mr. Arnaut is doing. So, very briefly, I'm not taking the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17258	Thank you very much. Of course this remark stands, ministers should be called by the name and last name of the ministry and we should all take care of it, but already, you are here accusing you of some excessive interventionism, so I urge you with another call to respect the Rules of Procedure all. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17259	I must ask you once again to speak out loud and clear by which member of the Rules of Procedure we will vote on the conclusions. I mean, now we know what the procedure is. We can only vote here on an emergency procedure and nothing else, and tell us what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17260	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17261	I thank the chairman. 66 Behold and please remember, this is where I am called that I have told who is the flying minister. I didn't mention any names or names. I've said all three ministers including the flying...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17262	Okay, I mean, sir...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17263	The fact that Bojić is too late for Crnadka in that, that's their problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17264	You see, Mr. Arnaut, you see, you see, Mr. Arnaut, sir, really, please, please pay attention, so there's no need really, I mean, this is already something we can't allow. Here you go, Mr. Magazinović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17265	Okay, Mr. Arnaut may be a little out of line, but it's not right for everyone to attack him today. We from the opposition want to side with him because he is one of the better opposition MPs. After each of his discussions, most have fewer and fewer MPs and you will see it today at the vote and therefore we are obliged to protect man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17266	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Lalić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17267	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Here, and I'll try to make some of my contribution to these discussions. Niko of us here, nor I personally, are against investments, are against construction, are against everything that improves the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, but for every form of construction, investment needs sources of money. What are these sources? You see here most often mention credit funds or excises. I think there are other sources. Niko of us talk about the growth and improvement of the economy and the economy in these areas. Someone just said we can't use our own resources, it's a big difference to say we can't use our own resources and we can't do it at all. The volume of its own resources seems to be zero, I think that space and surface and the ratio of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska's population to some, above all, natural resources and economics, could significantly increase the percentage of their own resources' participation. We know that money is a commodity and money can be often and expensive, every movement of money involves both costs and profits, depending on which side it places. I think in these areas that we cannot go indefinitely to justify our poor economic situation, ignorance, unhappiness or corruption, as you will, with an increase in excise duties, i.e. impose on the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. I think we should look at how to find solutions to improve the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina economically, i.e. the economy and economy. It's one of our basic roles. And if we look back at these familiar affairs, not to mention, Mr. Backović mentioned, I could add... and to the 67 Dervent tube Fabrika, among other things, that it acted preventively and avoided it, we could significantly improve participation by our own means. We've all been able to raise some kind of loan, so we tell her to lift it easily, and never bring it back, I think it's very difficult. So you have both in the environment and two same hosts, one, uh, from your own means of wonders, and the other reached out for loans and, of course, accidentally spent them, most often bought a car or don't know what, so then neither the money nor the car and came into the position that they were weak hosts, that they were messing with and lying, don't meet their obligations. That is why I would stress the improvement of the economy, the economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina where we have to create space to be safe, and anyone who votes lightly seems to be reaching for some alternatives. Obviously we all have some alternatives, let's see this as a source of profit and business, these areas, and in the end, we'll live in some Zagreb, Belgrade, or Ljubljana or I don't know where. It is not correct for our future generations, which we in this way especially owe and create obligations towards them. That's why, uh, I think we should look back at the growth of the economy and the economy and the suppression of corruption and crime, which has very much domesticated in these areas and is disrupting every form of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17268	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, it wasn't my intention to report for the last discussion, but, uh, I would refer to the discussions. Here, he says we're not working with the opposition, it's not true. For example, the discussions of colleagues of Saša Magazinović were very good, quality and they offered me to maybe think about, uh, one other way when it came to the proposals of those we received, these seven points. So the qualification was made clear about this, but I am surprised that the colleagues who went this way did not ask the entity prime ministers, since the focus is on entity governments, that the individual governments or prime ministers, Mrs Cvijanović and Mr Novalić, do social programmes or any other programmes that would amortise all these problems that could arise. Since I don't have a clear position here right now, and I don't know if this is the official position of the SDA Club or if this is just the position of four colleagues, I suggest and ask for a half-hour break, because this is really a new moment that requires consultation, and we will, after consultation, be clear about this issue, and that is where we define our position.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17270	Thank you very much. Can we finish the debate and then talk about the break, Mr. Đonlagić?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17271	And this is if the debate is over... since there is no more debate..., colleague Isaković will, I think he will give up. I said I was the last person to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17272	Thank you very much, please. I'm closing the debate. 68 Amire, are you looking for a word? Here you go. After that, we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17273	Well, here's a quick answer to my colleague, Đonlagić, I think we were saying that this is the position of the SDA...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17274	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17275	You'll get the word, you'll get the word. Amir
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17276	But you probably want the public to hear it. The Party of Democratic Action supported the proposal for conclusions signed by two colleagues, so Sadik Ahmetović and Šemsudin Mehmedović, so we will support these conclusions and I expect you as a coalition partner who cares about building roads to support us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17277	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Chairman, Mr. Mladen Bosić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17278	Well, I thought I was discussing it, but I'm gonna focus on this problem of voting on conclusions. So, this was a debate about the urgency of the procedure, and after this debate is over, there's a vote on the urgency of the procedure. And any conclusions that, by the way, do not address the urgency of the procedure at all are not acceptable in this procedure. They're about the measure of things and they're going if an emergency procedure is voted. And here I am, this intervention is at the president's conclusion that it will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17279	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Please be nice, now listen carefully, I'm closing the debate. At the request of the SBB Club, I'm taking a 30-minute break. After that, we approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17280	About what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17281	Wait a minute for me to finish, and then you'll be saying everything you have, and I just took my word and I gave you my word earlier, and you had the opportunity to say it. I now speak as 69 chairman of the House in the section relating to the management of this session. According to Article 82. Rules of Procedure (1), (2) and (3) and (2) where the debate on the item of the agenda gives rise to several proposals for conclusions by chair of the House for the vote giving proposals for conclusions in the order of the proposal. After the first statement on MPs' proposals, the House votes as a whole on the proposal for material that is under consideration. Here the material is the urgency of the procedure, the conclusions are within this point of the agenda. That's one answer to the question you asked me. The second answer, please listen nicely to what I'm saying now, we can't all talk, the question of how the vote was also in the procedure, article 89 is talking about the vote by raising the ballots, or by raising your hand, is that if the electronic voting system is not in function or at the request of 1/3 of the MPs in the House, and Article 90 is talking about voting by calling. The call shall apply when the Chair of the House or any MPs' proposal considers that this is necessary in order to remove doubts about the regularity of the results of the vote. I see no doubt so far, we have an electronic system that identifies everything that happens by the MPs when they express their will at the time of the vote. So, I'm interpreting, please nicely, I'm interpreting the provision of Article 82. The Rules of Procedure in a way that conclusions should be drawn if co-workers and colleagues who have proposed them insist on voting on them, vote first on them and then on the procedure. One member of the College, just to conclude, one member of the College feels that it is not so, you heard who is a member of the College, he has the right to believe so, then I will agree to the Rules of Procedure on how we will proceed to ask this House and the first thing we will vote on by electronic means after a 30-minute break is the vote on whether or not to vote on these conclusions on the procedure. After that, we vote on the procedure and we vote further as the Rules of Procedure provides. We'll continue at 3:00. I'm asking you to invite the club representatives to come into the O.R., all MPs need to come here and then join the vote, that's the correct thing to do. So, all MPs come in, inform the clubs whose representatives won't be here in the next few minutes. Please inform the MPs that they will be here in the O.R. within the next five minutes to approach the vote. It doesn't make sense that all MPs are just waiting for some. [[An MP is expected to arrive.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17284	There's no chairman now, please call... 70
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17285	We approach the vote, please, the president of the SBB Club asked for a break, is there any need for the president of the SBB Club to explain what the break was about?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, considering how the debate was going, we stayed in doubt, so we wanted to determine whether the proposal we heard here, the SDA Club, or whether it was four colleagues from the SDA Club. In a conversation with Mr. Fazlić, and we have also found with you that this is a proposal from the SDA Club and we now know clearly why we are voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17287	Thank you very much. So, we move on to the vote, we vote on it, please prepare for the vote, we vote on whether we vote first on the conclusions, and then on the urgency of the procedure. So, I suggest and Mr. Bosić believes that's not the case. That is why we ask Parliament – is Parliament to vote first on the proposal for conclusions and then on the procedure? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 15 for, 25 against, no abstentions. So we didn't agree to vote first on the conclusions, then on the procedure. Now prepare to vote on the procedure. Who is it, so we're voting on an emergency procedure, who's in favour of emergency procedures? Isn't that right, Secretary?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17288	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17289	Prepare to vote. 19 for, 19 against, two abstentions. I question the results of the vote. I call on you, please, please, I urge you to vote again. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 votes for, 19 votes against, two abstentions. No majority allowed, general majority. I understand there's no emergency procedure adopted. We're going to vote on the short procedure. Prepare to vote. Please, please, who thinks he won, let him keep it to himself, over there in front of the cameras, and we'll continue with the session. Prepare to vote for a shortened procedure. 21 for, 19 against. With a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted this reduced procedure. We're going to the six-day point, that's Ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-958/17, of 10.04.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17296	I thank the chairman. So, we on the agenda today have essentially a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The vote, according to the Report, was 4 for, 4 against and 1 abstention, so there was neither a majority to support the Law nor to bring down the Law. But in any case, I will just remind myself briefly of what kind of proposal it is, so amendments and additions to the existing BiH Administration Act. Currently, the Administration Act allows sanctions in cases of non-compliance with the administration's authority, so ministries and other bodies at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in some 15 cases. For example, if the authorities of the administration do not comply with the requirements of the Ombudsman Institution, the responsible person, in the authority of the administration defined by the current Law, will be punished between 100 and 500 marks, 500 KM, etc. The sanctions are not prescribed unless the administration authorities comply with the requirements of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, its homes, commissions or MPs and delegates in the same. And this is obviously a failure, an anomaly of an extremely illogical situation, given that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or even in certain cases, is, when it comes to ministers and deputies, the House of Representatives shall appoint leaders in the authorities of the administration, and there shall be no sanctions for non-compliance by the authorities of the administration at the request of the House of Representatives or both, or the House Commission, of the Joint Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the MPs and delegates themselves in the same. As I have already said, it is an anomaly that you should only take the example that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH appoints ombudsmans in the BiH Ombudsman institution and if the authority of the administration does not act at the request of the Ombudsman, the responsible person in the authority of the administration will be sanctioned, but if the authority of the administration does not act at the request of the Parliamentary Assembly which appoints the Ombudsmans no sanctions, there are no sanctions prescribed for the responsible persons in the authorities of the administration. Such a lack of sanctions for failure to comply with the demands of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly really creates one culture, or we can even say indiscretion, the relations of the urn authorities to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and its demands, one relationship that is not necessarily to respond, and therefore we have a permanent, but at every session, we all know that well, the sermons of MPs and delegates why they did not get the answer, why they waited five months, one year in some cases to get the answer, why it is not being handled, here today we heard a sea of discussion, why the administration's authorities did not act on the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, etc. We even have situations, here yesterday at the Commission for Transport and Communications, which I have discussed, was present as a minister's assistant, I think Zoran Andrić, on the request of the chairman, Mr Novaković – whether the Ministry has a position on this Act, Mr Andrić has expressed a very discriminatory position. During the session, too, I received information from the head of the cabinet and advisers of the minister, as the minister was on his way to Vašington, on the plane at the moment, I received from the head of the cabinet and adviser to the minister of information that the assistant minister is not representing the ministry's position but is expressing his personal position. So it's this one culture or, as I've already said, unculture, or inadmissible behavior. I asked Mr. Novaković to take a break to resolve the issue, he refused. But in any case, these are the things to stop and the only way to stop it is to introduce these sanctions for non-compliance with the demands of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and its homes. So, I underline, sanctions already exist in the Law on Non-application by the Authority of Administration in cases of questioning some fifteen institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but sanctions under the current law are not prescribed for non-compliance under the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly. And my proposal only extends those sanctions for failure to comply with our demands, as requested by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, everything else remains absolutely the same. 74 I therefore call on my colleagues not to support the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion, so that they vote today against the Constitutional Commission's report and to return this to the Commission and finally adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17297	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the 10th agenda, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/17, 26.01 and 03.03.2017. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 43rd session of the House, held on 23.03.2017. The Commission for Finance and Budgets submitted its report on 18 April 2017. The bill's proposal report. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th agenda, Ad. 11. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17300	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17301	Sure. 75 At the request of the SDS Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote on the procedure in the second round of voting, the emergency procedure. Vote now. For 8, v. 9, abstention 8. So there's no general majority here for emergency procedures. We're moving on to a statement on the shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 8, v. 9, abstention 8. Again, there is no general majority, and this law goes into regular procedure, as far as I can interpret. So we're going to the 12th agenda, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2016, act No: 05/8-04-356/17, of 02.02.2017. The Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against Corruption delivered its Opinion on the Report on 10.03.2017. The Commission supported the report with the conclusions contained in it. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the Commission's work to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2016, act No 01,02-50-14-695/17, dated 10.03.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17307	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished MPs. There is a report on the implementation of the 2016 Local Elections in which you have all the main aspects of both direct and indirect elections. I think it is important to say that there were three basic newspapers in the 2016 elections, and these are not only recommended delivery of ballots abroad, and I would like to draw your attention to page 28 where you can read more about the positive and negative aspects of this newspaper, then for the first time the result is correctly determined, if it is not well established at the polling station at the level of municipal, or city election commissions, which allowed us to have results from 97% of the polling stations and a new educational plan for the electoral administration was adopted. Observers gave a general assessment that the elections were mostly conducted neatly, the voting and counting process was fair and transparent without major violations with the exception of the Municipality of Stolac. However, the problems identified by the Central Election Commission and, now, we are working intensively to better prepare ourselves for the next General Elections 2018, which are two 77 types of disadvantages – the impunity in the Central Election List and the abuse of personal documents in foreign voting despite the positive aspects of the recommended delivery of ballots. In the election process, we had over 320 complaints and 99% of the Central Election Commission's decisions were confirmed by the BiH Court of Appeals. In addition to this report, you will also receive a report on the implementation of the law in the jurisdiction of the Central Election Commission to be delivered to you during this month. It has already been adopted before the Commission and is just being prepared by technique. So I am now at your disposal for all your questions and any comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17308	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Jasmin Emrić on the debate on the Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No: 01,02-02-1-126/17, of 12.01.2017. The House College, working as a commission, failed to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion. You've received a match report. There's no debate on this agenda point. We'll vote on that at the end of the session. We're going to point 18, Ad. 18. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for Parliament's Opinion Mensure Beganović's conclusion on the debate on the report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina - applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No 01,02-02-1126/17, of 12.01.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17312	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17313	I'm sorry, Mr. Amir Fazlić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17314	We're asking for a special vote on item 27.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17315	Okay. So, I suggest we unify the debate on points 20 to 26 and discuss in particular point 27. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 22 votes for, 1 versus, 1 abstention. We adopted a debate on points 20 to 26 together. Ad. 20. - 26. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement I'm opening a debate on points 20 to 26. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 27, Ad. 27. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation for the ratification of the Agreement on the regulation of former Soviet Union obligations in respect of trade between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ, material No 01,02-05-2-1007/17, of 13 April 2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17318	Before deciding on point 27, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17319	Before the decision?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17321	We decide, we decide in the end. Do you have a discussion? Are you looking for a break right now?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17322	Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-20-0.u17323	Now. At the request of the SDA Club, I'm giving a break of 10 minutes. So we move on at 5:10. Please take your seats, continue your work. We're going to vote. The college has brought consent to... So, we move to the vote on the first item of the agenda, that is – adoption of the 43rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. [[Disable microphone]] Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 votes for, no objection, 1 abstention, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've adopted the 43rd session record. Point 2 is – The adoption of the minutes of the 7th emergency session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. He's preparing to vote. Vote now. 27 for, no objection, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. We've adopted the record. Point 4 is – Request of MPs Predrag Kožul to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-814/17, of 23.03.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the Amendment to Predrag Kožul. So, you've seen that there's a technical amendment, it's possible to do it in this procedure. Prepare to vote on the amandman. Vote now. 18 for, 10 against. 80 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
