ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21499	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, continue the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The BiH Council of Ministers' office, Denis Zvizdić, has notified that the chairman is unable to attend today's session. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović's office informed us that the minister is unable to attend today's session. The absence was justified by MP jasmin Emrić, and representatives Željko Komšić and Asim Sarajlić announced a delay. According to the service, there are 36 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We are, I remind, at point nine. The debates have been shortened, just for a reminder, for five minutes. So point nine reads, Ad. Nine. Information on the type, number, intensity and cost of visiting BiH Minister of Foreign Affairs to other countries and the purpose of visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens – Proposer of the point: Representative Damir Arnaut, No: 01-50-1-2525/17, of 25.10.2017. We placed this item in Dom's decision at 53rd session 25.10.2017. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21501	I thank the chairman. Since the debate's been cut short for five minutes, I'll be on my way. So the explanation of the point, the very point of the agenda is given at the beginning of this session, it's still about the same session, so I won't remind you of all of it. What is necessary to remind, given that it has been more than a month since this session began, is that, the fact that the foreign minister had 140 trips during his term, and all of this is official data obtained from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website. In particular, in 2017, in 10 months, so to conclude from 24.10, the foreign minister was on 44 different trips. In 2016, which is the full year of his mandate, for 12 months 60 individual trips and in 2015, for 9 months as long as he was minister, 37 trips. So here the average varies between 4 and 11, 4, 11 and 5 trips per month, which by all parameters is an uncontested high figure. However, I say the reminders again, it is official data from the website, from the BiH Foreign Ministry's official website. The very number of trips, which is undeniably high, does not give us the whole picture and therefore we have created one table and that table indicates that on official travel, of these 2 140, official visits to waste is only 13, so less than 10% are official visits. But within these 13, only four official visits are to the countries of the European Union, while nine official visits outside the European Union, countries such as Azerbaijan, Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Brazil, etc. As for official visits described as official or bilateral on the Ministry’s website, only 19 of them are 140, of which 19 are only eight in the countries of the European Union. And then 108 visites to attend multilateral meetings or summits, forums, seminars, lectures or other, such as opening buildings, buildings, etc., to this is 108 of these 140 visits. This raises a legitimate question which is the concrete benefit of these trips to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and without the assumption that we can provide answers to these questions, since these answers are not already available on the official website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the SBB Club delivered the procedure at the beginning of the session of two proposals. The first proposal for a conclusion – The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests that the foreign minister submit a detailed report within 30 days on all trips outside Bosnia and Herzegovina during its term of office, including the destination, the number of days spent on official travel, the purpose of travel and contacts reached, the number of members of the delegation, the total costs for each official trip, the results and subsequent activities undertaken such as opening negotiations, the signing of the agreement, the abolition of the visa regime, etc. The second proposal is that – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires that the College of the House of Representatives, either on its own initiative or in co-operation with the College of the People's House, ensure the presence of members of the BiH Presidency and the Minister of Foreign Affairs at a thematic session called thesis – the Vanjskopolitical Directions and the objectives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the impact of geopolitical flows on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such information and such a session are absolutely necessary for this Parliament, which I remind you again, to have a legal obligation to oversee all ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to receive answers, both we and the public, which are the results of all these activities, what is the benefit for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. And since we already have at least one year left in this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly, let's see what further plans of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21502	Thank you very much. Representative Milica Marković also called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21503	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, here, I'll try to frame myself at the time that's scheduled for this agenda point. So, what we were saying when an initiative was submitted for one such item of the agenda is certainly the questions of the spending of funds spent in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the trip of the Minister, from the point of view of the benefits of these trips and visits to various destinations, which in Europe, which in the world, is finally addressed in the very title of this agenda. If you look at the nominal amount, therefore, the funds are really large and a lot of resources are spent on his travels, and on the other hand, if you compare it with the effect and the results that have taken these trips, it can be said that these results are almost completely meaningless or almost nothing. 3 I know that the minister disagrees with this, and he, he did not agree to even discuss this topic at Parliament's session at all, but certainly this information can be brought into contact with the audit reports carried out at the Foreign Ministry. So you will notice, let's say, that the MIP audit report is the only institution in the Council of Ministers to find it impossible to identify the number of employees in that institution, because the number of employees disagrees with the systematiced jobs, and that some destinations and visits to those countries are entirely questionable. So the question arises why was the minister there, such as a visit to Cuba, Brazil. Brazil, for example, went on a visit, and it is known that, for example, the trade in goods with Brazil between Bosnia and Herzegovina and that country on an annual basis is only around 300 million KM. He went to Cuba where we don't even have an embassy, so we're not talking about other destinations he's dedicated to, but he's worked a little on the European path to Bosnia and Herzegovina, what he was obliged to do as foreign minister in the overall activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration. Of course, these funds that he spent were very disputable from the point of view that some even cost fabulously, such as his plane ticket to New York when he went was 32,000 KM. He said in the media that no one asked him how much he would pay for the plane ticket and why it was so paid. Well, he doesn't ask us MPs to provide plane tickets for our travels, but he still buys us an economic class, not a 32,000-mark map of how much his ticket to New York cost. If you compare his activities with, say, other foreign ministers in the region, then you will compare, let's say, I compared it to the foreign minister in Serbia, his travels are 50% higher, he's had more trips than, say, Ivica Dačić, who is the minister of Serbia, and we've all seen from the media what Ivica Dačić's activities are, and what is it like to say, the diplomatic activity he is leading, which in the Security Council, which is in UNESCO, which, according to other European institutions where he appears as foreign minister. He is here, in information we see that his number of travels is equal to the number of travels of some American diplomats, so you can now imagine where Bosnia and Herzegovina is, where the United States is, by looking at the effect of the foreign minister of one or another country. Of course, the minister will not agree with this and he has disputed much, but I think that even when he was appointed foreign minister at the very beginning of his work, many were skeptical of his capacity both as a person and as a politician that he would be able to carry out that duty he took. And here it turned out that man couldn't bring it out and he didn't do anything concrete or anything. When you ask him what the results of your work are, he says -- well, I did a conference in Banja Luka where 10 foreign ministers came from certain countries, and he says -- today some of them became prime ministers in their countries. So that was his contribution, to promote people and to advance in the political career, not some concrete benefit that Bosnia and Herzegovina or Banja Luka had, for example, in which the conference took place. Or, for example, He says -- I am in my position, as a result of my work, to chair the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers where Bosnia and Herzegovina chaired recently. So Bosnia and Herzegovina would chair the Council of Europe and that it is and that it is not a minister, and whoever it is, it was up to Bosnia and Herzegovina to chair at that time, that period in the Council of Europe, and that is absolutely no contribution from Igor Crnadko as foreign minister. Or, for example, When you hear his more bizarre statement he said, he says – imagine where I was, in Budapest, and I was at their prime minister's office and when I came I saw a big map with a geographical map of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, he was amazed to see a geographical map in the Hungarian prime minister's cabinet and he considers it his own effect and his own merit. This one was fascinated that he appeared before him, so in his honor he put that map and that map in his cabinet. I mean, it's so bizarre stuff, Amazing, but I'm not surprised by Igor Crnadko, because I knew what he was like and I know him from the media as a politician. [[the speaker is warned on time]] When he came to this post, 4 people did not face diplomacy and European integration in any NGO, let alone that he had some capacity to work on. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, here to finish, just one more sentence, I'd have a lot more to say, but in the end, it's a real shame that Branislav Nušić is not alive now and that he wrote the comedy "Mrs. Minister", I think he'd better write another one on the basis of this information that would be called "Mr. Minister", as proof of a person who is, you don't know whether she's more imaginary or more incompetent for a job that works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21504	I'm asking the MPs to stick to the weather. Next up for debate, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21505	Honored chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. Well, here, finally on this Parliament to be one serious subject that requires a more serious approach and a more zealous analysis. We have usually learned to fly everything past us, forgetting our key responsibility and obligation, which is Parliament's control function. It is clear that the minister does not know about it, because he has been trying for years to be elected to one of the positions, or to the seat of MPs in one of the parliaments, without success, so perhaps this is how he refers to Parliament. He's one of the few against whom both homes are running a special story, and the House of Peoples, the Investigation Commission, and we're having a debate today. And unlike that, instead of coming down here in an undertone and listening to what's being respected, and having the strength of the argument fights it, he's in one extreme way that crosses an intellectual, let alone one of the bearers of such a significant function, that's how he treats everyone. So, everyone needs to be passed out and declared, I don't know what they're not, but we're gonna do it in the right place, so I don't take this time. When I saw, uh, what my colleague Arnaut pulled, I compared what the Foreign Ministry's task was, and what are the responsibilities that he should be fulfilling. Well, here, ask yourself a question when it comes to the Foreign Ministry and its competence to monitor the state and development of international relations with other countries, international organisations, and informs Parliament, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, when you last received information that could serve you for any decision-making. Organisation, guidance and coordination of the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomatic-consular representations abroad. So whether a person who spends two and a half years in office spends a year and a half out of the country can influence the work of the diplomatic-consular network, as well as the ministry, monitoring co-operation with international economic movements, notifying competent authorities about this and Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic relations with individual countries and regions. I saw an interesting answer sent by the minister to a colleague, Kapetanović, who asked him a very specific question about the effect of economic diplomacy, so. Incredibly with which disrespect applies to this Parliament and to MPs who dare to ask any question. So, there is, there is no answer that the minister could give. When it comes to these trips, just a few things to say, and that's an auditor's note. So, in 2016, the Ministry spent 1.5 million for travel, and watch this, there are millions in headquarters, and throughout the DKP network, 44 embassies, 5 consulates and 6 diplomatic missions, 564,000. Almost twice a man spent more in the headquarters than the entire DKP network. It says the revision of why it is not known, the book of travel orders does not contain information about the costs of official travel or the purpose of travel. We can't get a colleague Arnaut to know what the purpose of the journey is because there's no record of it. It's not listed, it's very easy to get that data, anyone could rewrite it if such records were kept and not kept. And what does the review say yet? The recommendation requires effective control of the costs concerned to be introduced, i.e. travel costs. The minister says -- the review gave an opinion with the reserve because all the conditions are met, there is no error, no budget breach. I want to tell you that this is one of the ministries that gets an opinion with the reserve every year. There's probably a reason why our review doesn't give anyone a negative opinion, but there'd be room... And now, take care of why the Ministry received an opinion with the reserve, the minister did not read this report, so I'm on top of it, because he can't answer my questions, so the basis for the opinion with the reserve, according to the auditor, the list of assets and liabilities, has not been established in the main book, so we can't confirm the accuracy of the financial reports. in the work of seeking obligations and permanent funds of the Ministry. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Do you know what that means? We can't. to guarantee that what it says is true. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Five minutes on a subject like this, that's terrible, but the College is responsible for talking about things like this as little as possible, and then it stays on to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21506	Thank you very much. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21507	I thank the chairman. I am glad that this information was found today, because only when I saw some things I saw how good Minister Crnadak is and I am only sorry that he is not in the Serbian Democratic Party. In order to be able to criticize someone, we must follow certain rules ourselves. In order for us to have the right to criticise Minister Crnadko, then we must criticise and be critical of those of our ranks. Unlike Minister Crnadko's travels, which are transparent on the site, the Republika Srpska government, or representatives of the SNSD, refuse to answer where the Republika Srpska government plane flew from June 3rd to June 14th 15th. Destinations are Krf, Athens, Tivat, Dubrovnik, Belgrade, Ljubljana, Dubrovnik, St. Petersburg. I, for example, would be very interested to see what the benefits are for the Republic of Serbia of these many trips per, and in the summer period, you know, by sea destinations. Furthermore, as far as travel costs are concerned, they were at the 2002 MIP headquarters, when he was a minister, the respected Minister Lagumdžija, amounted to a million and a half, in 2003 and 400, so Minister Ivanic then increased those costs to a million and 800 and was so on average, let's say the last year of his term of one million and 600. Then comes Prime Minister Sven Alkalaj, who Arnaut then joined in the same political party, but did not worry about his travels, two million and 300, two million and 200, two million and 200, million and 700, so Minister Lagumžij significantly cut down those costs at a million and 300, and Minister Crnadak remained at that level as Minister Lagumdžija. In doing so, we should say that these funds are mostly travel related to the minister himself, that is, calls to which the minister travels and his expenses are not so high at all. In 2017, the cost of airline tickets and accommodation of Minister Crnadka amounted to 169.000 marks, 2016. - 190.000 marks, 2015. - 160,000 marks. The truth is to say that these are the costs of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign travel minister 6 jobs, which I believe have justifications for its travels. And it's interesting to me, for example, that the distinguished colleague Arnaut did not move the journey of justification for the expenses of Minister Alkalaj when all the media reported that Minister Alkalaj was going to follow the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Australian Open, Davis Cup, and I don't know, Vimbldon, yes, and Vimbldon was going to follow the cost. In doing so, he arranged with some low - ranking people to cover officials, meetings, and visited countries of Asia and Africa. These were the effects of the work of Minister Alkalaj, whom he has given us only diplomatic scandals for his term, so I will remind you that, beyond the position of the predsjednišve and this Parliament, he has informed Serbia that the dual citizenship agreement is not in force. And when the SDS Club, then headed by a respected colleague, Novaković, launched an initiative for his shift, had no understanding even of his SNSD counterpart, as he told me. To remind also that Minister Alkalaj then made a major scandal when Bosnia and Herzegovina was at the centre of the scandal because the Iranian news agency conveyed news that he told the Iranian ambassador that Bosnia and Herzegovina is against imposing sanctions on Iran, and that Iran has an inalienable right to use nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. These are just some, not to remind further of his scandals about buying the book "The Curse of Muslims" in Arabic, it was then acceptable to the SNSD, and I remember at the beginning of last term we had Minister Alkalaj here when he said he was surprised, that he was doing very well. As for the travel costs of Minister Crnadko, all his annual expenses are, say, how many of the former Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremić's flight. Here I am going to tell you, so even though Belgrade has much better connections than Sarajevo, let's say Minister Jeremić paid for private planes. as foreign minister, so one flight to the Netherlands, here I am finishing, costing 29,000 euros to Ethiopia 70,000 euros, and three times flew to Ethiopia, at 70,000 euros each. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21508	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21509	I thank the chairman. We voted for this point to be on the agenda today and to discuss it, but I think it would be most effective if we immediately came up with the proposed conclusions, and when we got this material to open up the debate. This today and the way it started, I think it's completely unproductive and we're just gonna waste time. The debate so far could draw the conclusion that we are the only country where the foreign minister is criticised and accused of travelling. So it's his job. The way it works is something we can talk about when we get this analysis. I also think that a year before the election through this item of the agenda, some people point out their candidacy to be new foreign ministers, which is legitimate, but let's say that too. Who the minister is meeting with is a picture of the state. So he doesn't meet with more or less important politicians than the Presidency does. Let's see, here's the Presidency responsible for implementing foreign policy and conducting Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, who are they meeting with? Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarović, Erdogan, Vučić, then a little Erdogan, Kolinda, Vučić, in different combinations of the three people. Who have they been meeting with in the last two years, let's say here's the political face that came to Bosnia and Herzegovina? Well, we can't remember seven more years when the traffic in Sarajevo was blocked because someone was coming. Who are the Bureau members meeting with? Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarović, Erdogan, Vučić, private, business, by accident, deliberately, suddenly, announced, unannounced, that's our foreign policy. And now, within that whole story of ours, we tell the Minister of Foreign Affairs – you, Bog, have met with you. Let him write it down for us, and then we'll talk about it, talk about it. We recently, our few MPs from the House of Representatives, were in the United States. Among other things, there were congressmen and senators, meeting with a special adviser to the president of the United States. The visit was organised by the State Department, paid all the costs, so 0 KM the cost of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. None of the institutions, from the representatives of the institutions, asked us what was at the meeting, but they made an effort to release news into the media that it was tens of thousands of marks from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, although the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not pay for the stamp. That's how we run foreign policy. And now that they know and if they ask what happened, we won't tell them, there we go. Finally, the impact review for, we're definitely for it, and I think that's one of the conclusions, the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, to discuss here, we're definitely for, the effects, the subsequent effects of visits and the Presidency and the minister, we're definitely for, but for these private and party wars here, we're definitely against and we're really asking that part of the story to be cut short until we get the right material based on which we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21510	Thank you very much. Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21511	Dear Saša Magazinović, I do not agree with the remarks he mentioned, which the presidency is meeting with, therefore, is the president of Croatia, the president of Serbia and the president of Turkey. So here is the problem that Bosnia and Herzegovina has not given anyone a positive example, so we do not have good relations, good enough and good quality relations with neighbours, and often the problems of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia occur, and when we talk about Turkey, when the foreign minister, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will be able to take the tenth part of the event, which was made by visiting the president of Republika Srpska, will be a significant step in the success of Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomacy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21512	Thank you very much. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21513	My Kolega, Magazinović, the presidency is creating foreign policy. Based on what? We don't have the law. So each of the three Bureau members creates the way he thinks he should and you can see it. So, uh... However, the foreign ministry is implementing the foreign policy created by the presidency. [[isn't understood, facing the microphone]] As the MIP conducts and has eight communications this big if the Presidency didn't create it that way, and in the end, what it created. Can we know as Parliament what created the Presidency in that term, four years old, what it was planning to do? Well, maybe we'd have some suggestions, some suggestions, 'cause we're entitled to that. This is how best to keep Parliament in the dark, the Presidency, therefore, tolerates this relationship, because it is ultimately a party that we have in the hands of a political party that is not parliamentary. Who's Crnadak laying down the accounts for here? No one. So we have a responsibility to him, he has a responsibility to twenty and one of the MPs who chose him. But we have to the citizens who, according to thousands of votes of citizens who have chosen us and we have no right to treat us like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21514	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21515	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21516	He's giving up. Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21517	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In the last session, that is, when setting the agenda, I voted for this to be a part of the agenda and discussed why this should still be a part of the agenda. And today, when this agenda point is open, I want to consistently repeat what I said and then say. My dominant reasons why I think this should be the point of the agenda don't fully match the position of the proponent of this point. Namely, they focused their attention and formulations on the very point of the agenda put the number and intensity of the journey. I do not dispute that this too should be analysed and discussed, so I also supported this as a part of the agenda, but I want to repeat one other thing that I've already talked about. The dominant reason why I voted for this to be a part of the agenda is not to implement the established foreign policy of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina by Foreign Minister Mr Crnadko. I recall that we have already established that membership in the European Union and NATO membership is a two key strategic foreign-political goal of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was unanimously established by the BiH Presidency, the BiH Parliament, and we passed the law on to that effect. Unfortunately, I have to say that one of these two key strategic foreign-political objectives, the foreign minister, has been currently obstructed throughout this term, and my view is that he has misused his post in this way and has not implemented what Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy has been established. So regardless of this kind of formula of this agenda point, this is an opportunity to talk about it, I'd say, essentially. The promoter of this point also delivered a proposal for a conclusion. Among other things, it is said in one conclusion that a detailed report on all travel, destinations, the number of members of the delegation, transport, logs and other expenses should be submitted within the next 30 days. I would like to say, therefore, that I will also support this proposal for a conclusion, there is no reason not to get that information, but I repeat, and I am putting the accent in this debate on the fact that the foreign minister has committed a major offense by not carrying out foreign policy than what 9 is just going to determine where, how and how he traveled. So here, therefore, in this debate I regret to put the accent on that question, in my opinion, of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21518	Thank you very much. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21519	Honored chairman, members of the College, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I've been thinking about how much it makes sense to discuss this part of the agenda, given the seriousness of the way it's even on the agenda. If we wanted to deal seriously with these issues, which are now being discussed by colleagues Magazinović and colleagues Bećirović, then we would ask our Commission for Foreign Affairs, whose obligation is set out in Article 45. The Rules of Procedure, in the position (1) under (a) – follow the lead of the foreign policy of the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, to provide us with information on the implementation of this task, and on the basis of this information, and the Commission would ask the Presidency and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to open a serious debate here today on the implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy. All the assessments without it in this way have been raised on a major issue, namely all the findings expressed here, the question is how much does it make sense if we do not have such a position, first of all, of our Commission, or if we do not know how much our Commission has participated in solving or at least informing on this issue. It would really be discussed, not only about this ministry and this minister, but about the reach and reach of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in general. We could have discussed this before. I remember I suggested Mr. Alkalaj's shift, Parliament did not support me at the time, believing that Mr. Alakalaj had done his job well even though I had then warned of much more drastic things than those that are being warned here today in Parliament, so, among other things, that a drunk man caused a collision in Sarajevo here where a person was injured, so that a man got drunk in a restaurant..., insulted his secretary of the ministry, telling him that he should wash his hands when he said hello to the Srbin, so we don't go any further. At the time, I was the opposition, fellow critics were the government and did not support me. So, it would be good if we were to speak with real arguments, I'm saying that we're talking arguments about range and domain of the Ministry in the conditions in which it is. So, I have no intention of really defending any member of the Council of Ministers in a way that I justify or do not justify his affairs, because I am not a minister, I am not working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I don't know what a man could have done more or less than what he did, but I can speak from the position of seriousness of the debate on this point. I suggest that we deliver a stenogram of speech to our colleague Marković as an official document, so she can see what she said. She'd probably never do that again. So faceless and anemic and unargumented discussion I haven't heard in a long time. I could talk about other discussions, but I don't want to. I don't agree that even if Mr. Alkalaj hadn't done anything even though I suggested his shift, I wouldn't be surprised that those who are criticizing and starting this part of the agenda today, who were at the time with Mr. Alkalaj, would not conclude that the result of Mr. Alkalaj's love for the tennis appearance of Damir Džumhur. Maybe he wouldn't have shown up if Alkalaj hadn't gone to those tournaments, who knows. And that, of course, is a possible conclusion. There's a minister. responsibility, not only to MPs, but also to citizens, as we have a responsibility [[The speaker is warned on time]] Not only to the citizens, but also to this House here for what we say publicly in this microphone. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 10
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21520	Thank you very much. A colleague, Deputy Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21521	Well, I, like my colleague Novaković, have no intention or need to defend the minister because Crnadak even seems to me to get some point after all you've started against him because I don't see any concept, or it seems to me that those who triggered this whole story in the meantime have changed the concept that has now become meaningless. I can say that I can speak relevantly about this issue because I was also Deputy Foreign Minister, I was also an ambassador, so I can look at it both from the outside position and from the position on the inside. And it seems to me that there are a lot of incompetent discussions, not only in Parliament, but otherwise in public on the subject, people don't understand what the Foreign Ministry is, what its function is, and in particular they don't understand what its reach is, what can be expected of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And there's always some mystification because people are ambassadors, living somewhere outside, spending more money than they spend in the country, and there's always a mystery about possible reach of these people who work in embassies or in the ministry themselves because they actually have limited opportunities in every sense. The first restriction of their options is that representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina who, let's be realistic, have no more significant place in international relations than when it belongs to the principle of rotation to perform some significant international function. So, being Bosnia and Herzegovina's representative or being Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister means that they will not compete in international relations to come to visit Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is known who goes to their feet and who you should go to, regardless of what is apparent in the international relations of all countries is equal. It is not the same diplomacy of the United States and any other country, it is not the same diplomacy of Russia and any other country. And what Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomacy is very limited in its capabilities in general. So I have to tell you that I was skeptical whether Mr. Crnadak could perform that function because I participated in talks on forming a Council of Ministers and I changed that opinion when I listened to Mr. Crnadko's performance in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe when Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it fell to Bosnia and Herzegovina to chair the Council of Europe. And I was proud of how he succeeded that hour, which belongs to the chairman, to present about his country and to represent the entire community of the Council of Europe, or all foreign ministers. I was surprised because I didn't know, and his ability to say it in English, because there aren't too many people here who can do it. So I don't need to praise him, but it's my personal impression and, in some ways, I want to underline that the people who started this initiative seem to have a lot of personal animosities in relation to the real state that's going on here. And when we're about the funds, so it's spent, it has to be spent in the foreign ministry more and the foreign minister has to travel more. We are poor, Bosnia and Herzegovina is poor, with a very low budget compared to, for foreign affairs compared to all other, almost all other countries in the world, and certainly should be looked after for that budget. Each country, in line with its budget, can also have an impact, those countries that have a lot of money use that money for international influence. Azerbejdžan has spent two billion dollars on lobbying, as it is said professionally, i.e. increasing its influence or bribery, i.e. caviar diplomacy as they represent it in world relations. So, we are who we are, Mr. Crnadak for sure. He didn't deserve to be raised to some pillar of shame for his activities, he did, in my opinion, what was expected of him to do, which is to represent [[the speaker is warned on time]] Bosnia and Herzegovina in the best possible way he knows it and how he can. [[The speaker is 11 alerted on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21522	Thank you very much. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21523	Well, the correction of the wrong allegation refers to the presentation of Mr. Bosić and Mr. Novaković who at the beginning of their discussion said that they had no intention or need to defend Mr. Crnadko as minister, which actually confirms that they, for all that effect, that is, the inaction he made as minister, are aware that they bear responsibility, because they as the Alliance for Change have run him. Mr. Crnadak doesn't have his own party here because PDP is not a parliamentary party in this BiH Parliament. So they as the Alliance for Change bear responsibility for him and for all the effects he has done or not done. And as for Mr. Novaković, a stenogram for my discussion, so if I had the right to another discussion, I'd just come back just because this discussion would now be much sharper on Mr. Crnadk because he deserves it for everything he's done, or he hasn't. And was it appropriate or inappropriate – such as the minister and the discussion. So it is appropriate for him and for what he does, as he, this, behaves, and you have nothing to complain to me about. So, if I had another chance to answer for the discussion, I'd still have a lot to say on his behalf. And here no one, what the SDP has objected to today, is asking whether the foreign minister should or should not travel. He's supposed to travel, but here he asks a fundamental question, which is the effect of these trips and what are the results of these trips. What he was expected to do in order in the diplomatic-consular network did not do, to repair Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign-political image in Europe and the world, and to do nothing on this plan, to work on economic diplomacy through our ambassadors and consuls around the world, he did nothing there, even set up a systematisation of those employed at the MIP. So the results are very, very scarce, and don't tell us that you don't need to defend him. You've got a leak because you see what that responsibility is about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21524	Thank you, beautiful representative Dušanka Majkić, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21525	Mr. Bosić, as a man who spent some time in diplomacy, said here he was also an ambassador, he was a deputy minister, and probably how much, that's how much he spent the whole bonus and didn't practically say anything. It's bad to defend someone because you only think it is, because it's yours. That some people from your alliance often, the only measure of things is to defend it because it's mine and there's no other argument for it. So that man must have a measure. It's a good thing you said you had a backup when he was running for that position but you should also look at the overall effect. I don't want to talk about these trips if I shouldn't, all the time I refer to what the obligation is, from what we're looking at, here's the next session we're going to have audit reports. Well, then, if 12 audits tell someone that because of it, they have to exercise more effective control for more rational budget spending, so what do I have to say about whether it is, isn't it? Why public procurement, come on he traveled okay, according to all the criteria... traveled, why public procurement is wrong, why is it the Ministry, is not able to resolve the issue of the Regulation on the systematization of jobs. So in which ministry we still have that we can't agree on the number of employees and the number of systematicized. For years. Well,... found a bad condition, well, well, I'm here and now I'm gonna show you that you can fix it. My initiative, he doesn't have time, the journey is, his fault is just as much as he doesn't have time to deal with it. There are decent people there who do this job, but the top should be dealt with, to give instructions on how to do it. So, Mr. Bosić, I expected you to say -- well, here, there are things that should change, and that is not the way to defend.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21526	Thanks, Lip. A colleague, Deputy Mladen Bosić, rectification of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21527	Well, I understand those that mention the effects both Mr. Crnadak and our diplomatic network have achieved, and you know very well that it is very difficult to materially assess and evaluate, these effects can be difficult to show in the real world. And let us not be hypocritical, which are the effects of Parliamentarian travel in various groups around the world and how much they spend and how much they spend. I think they're... but tell me what your effects were, or our effects, and I'm traveling around, about it and how you think it can be shown. And the other day we were in Brussels for a very important meeting and contributed to our discussion of how much we could contribute, but someone had to be there, presence and interest because we were talking about changing the European Union's approach to bringing the Western Balkan countries into the European Union is something that must be done. And you, when you write a report, will be very difficult to tell what your effects are, especially to the public, to explain why it is good and why it had to go there. So insisting on the effects is very, as far as the foreign ministry is concerned, very problematic, the effects of travel, because it's very difficult to explain the words. Here, I urge you once again to consider how you would describe the effects of your travels as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21528	Thank you very much. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21529	Thank you very much. Here, I didn't plan on answering this part of the agenda because I really don't see that the intention of the promoter or the people, most of the people who discussed today are to fix something in this area. Frankly, this only shows some infirmity of some politicians, political parties, because the way this has been put in place since the very beginning can't bring us anything useful. We will propose a proposal in front of the Independent bloc Club, a set of conclusions in which I think we can do something essentially for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both for the state and for this Parliament where we are sitting. But all I needed was to replicate my colleague Marković. So I see how worried she is about the image of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and says the foreign minister has done nothing to make the state's image better. If she's really worried about her colleague Marković, you say 13 to your leader, the president of your party. A man who denies the state, in which he and the president of one of the Entires, cannot say that there is a state in force, expects the foreign minister to be serious and to make something special in the world and make such a state, as they say, respectable. So in that sense, let's go back to that, as I would say, the right thing to do, and that's to talk about how we can fix this area. My colleague Dušanka Majkić, she holds the chairmanship of the Foreign Affairs Commission, if there is any need to talk systemically about this and impose this topic, and you will always have my vote on this...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21530	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21531	Yes, but you don't call meetings, you don't come to sessions, now we have to call meetings in another way, as it's called. If we want a solution I ask you to systematically set it up, and if we want to see what the effect of some work and our presentation out there is then open that story from members of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers of the whole, all ministers, do some comparative analysis with some past period, you will see that if we make one quality approach then we will be able to talk about having good intentions. All of this, in my opinion, is a completely unnecessary thing that won't, after all, have any positive... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21532	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21533	I thank the chairman. Someone asked a question, colleague Bosić, uh, concept issue. So, I recall the argument given when this item of the agenda is opened, at the end of my argument stands – it is therefore necessary for the House of Representatives to discuss this issue, and to adopt conclusions that arise from such a debate, all with the aim of protecting and promoting the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. So, the fact is, Mr. Bosić, and also a replica to Mr. Novaković who opened the issue of preparation for this agenda point, that this is a serious job. So 140 trips are data from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website, it's five trips a month on average, it's by all standards very much. And then as the SBB Club, we offered these conclusions that the minister would get the opportunity to explain. Now, Mr. Bosić is questioning how to quantify it. So it can be quantified. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs finally adopted a regulation that I have been asking about for two and a half years, so since May 2015, two months after Minister Crnadak sat down in that chair, I ask the question – when will be adopted by the Assessment Regulation whose adoption was ordered by the Presidency. You know what the first answer is, and now it is the replica and colleagues Magazinović and you, Mr Bosić, the first answer I received – starting with the legal responsibility and competences that the foreign minister, the BiH Foreign Ministry, has in the process of appointing the then foreign minister Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija appreciated this approach inappropriately from the aspect of interest and the necessary co-operation between the BiH presidency and the Foreign Ministry. And then they conclude, this is the response of Minister Crnadko, we appreciate that by selecting a new assembly of the Presidency, by appointing a new foreign minister, him, removed personal obstacles, beware, he in response to MP 14 is talking about personal obstacles, and created preconditions to adopt the Regulation in collaboration with... members of the Presidency. Two and a half years There are no regulations. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Just one more thing, given that colleague Magazinović, this, certain insinuations have been made, as regards the insinuation that someone points out to the foreign minister's candidacy, I remind you that next time it is the turn of a representative of the Croatian people to be foreign minister, and I did not see any of the Croatian people's colleagues reporting. I remind you that seven, eight years ago It was also the turn of members of the Croatian people, but then another time he wanted to be foreign minister, so a year and a half awaited appointment. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Therefore, there are absolutely no insinuations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21534	Thank you very much. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21535	The correction is to Mr. Šepić, who said I am very concerned about the foreign-political image of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, I'm not worried, it's my duty just to talk about it as an MP, because the foreign-political image of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the primary concern of parliamentarians, but above all the Presidency of BiH and the foreign ministry, and ours is to a certain extent in the segment in which we participate and in which we can make our contribution. It's about concern. And as for President Dodik and the president of Republika Srpska and what you said about him, you must know, Mr. Šepić, that Mr. Dodik, whatever you think of him here in Sarajevo, is a very important and important politician in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially in Republika Srpska. And there's a saying in the people that says -- an ordinary man can see up to the hill, but a politician has to see over the hill. E Milord Dodik had just seen a few things before, some negative tendencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so he talked about it. But if he spoke, and if he pointed to it, he spoke with the best intention, but those who should have heard it and responded to it neither heard nor wanted to react, and he therefore spoke with good intent. If there is no answer, you cannot prevent him from talking about it and talking about what he sees and how he observes things and tendencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be good if some others in Bosnia and Herzegovina wanted to talk about it and show good will in time to fix things in this country if they could still fix it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21536	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21537	I was hoping my colleague Arnaut wouldn't react, but my hope didn't come true. So, I did say that there are MPs who have the ambition to maybe be the next foreign ministers and I didn't mention him, but he did respond. And I think he was wrong to react, and he should have kept it quiet, because let's just say I didn't mean you at all. On the other hand, by explaining which ethnic group the next minister comes from, and then you explained to us that it is, you should, but in the past there are examples where it doesn't have to be like that, it says that you're seriously thinking about it, and you already have these different variations in your head. But once again, you shouldn't have gotten 15 on it. So, slowly and without anxiety, there's another year, and we'll see who's going to be, who's going to be, uh, this one, and by then I think we should go back to the conclusions that you've suggested, and that the current minister, who I don't see will be changed in the next year, tells us here, subsidizes the materials, and then contact us when it is, so let's continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21538	Thank you very much. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21539	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Here, I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here, to say that I expected Mr. Arnaut to withdraw this item of the agenda, given that they changed their attitude, and very quickly changed attitudes, about excises, decided to support them and realized that, finally, they realized that the increase in fuel prices would not produce chain price increases on the market and that it would not compromise the standard of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But here, some things may change attitudes, others don't change, but in this session, we'll see what happens next. Well, maybe it's not bad that we're discussing these things today, but it's bad to talk about one ministry, to talk about one man, and there's a lot of those who fly out of Bosnia and Herzegovina and come back in such a way, and here they are justifiably or unjustly spending the funds of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, spending budgets. And in order to avoid this discrimination against others, I propose that I extend my conclusion in a way that the same report with the same delivery parameters and members of the Presidency, chaired by the Council of Ministers and Ministers at the Council of Ministers. And this dilemma that the other chairman, Mr. Bosić, had, perhaps, would not have been so bad that there was no discrimination at all and that the College of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, as well as all MPs and delegates, were treated in the same way. And then what would they get? Then we'd get about these parameters that Mr. Arnaut was talking about, the situation, we'd see who went where and then we could do a detailed analysis of whether these trips, as someone said, are either touristic or not justified. And this is the example Mr. Bosić spoke of, at that meeting he spoke of and was the need of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we talked about the European path, about the possibility of Western Balkan countries being part of that path. So, when we have these parameters, we will know exactly who was the tourist on those trips, and who really brought some good to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or its citizens. But, I'm saying, it's not fair that in a group or a team or the amount of those people who spend budget money, travel, make contacts out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one way or another, we're now just talking about one ministry and one man. We have to be honest with ourselves and in such a way to seek one such information, and then when we have all this in one place, we will very easily take my view whether these trips have been justified or not, how much funds have been spent for justified travel, how much for unwarranted, and then, in some future period, we may have made some criteria, which will probably be done by the future Council of Ministers, and maybe the parallel indicators would come from what the previous Council or the Council had done, so that through this one, here I say the last three mandates, through some triling we can really establish certain criteria for the future period. Once again, I would like to point out that I would suggest to the Proposer that he completes his conclusion with this, in the way that I suggested that we have a comprehensive picture.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21540	Thank you very much. Advocacy of Diana Zelenika, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21541	I thank and warmly welcome everyone. Here, in a way, my colleague Arnaut, to say that the Hrvat have a position, that we are not without an attitude on this matter, it motivated me a little bit just to get in touch with this, uh, and to point out right away that even though the next term led the Croatian people to take that place, that ministry, I should say immediately that I am not pretending to be such a clean place so that there is no misunderstanding. But why did I answer? I came forward because of the selective memory which is clearly here constantly present and what at least in the Croatian people says who is without sin should throw the first stone away. I don't see anyone here, including myself, sinless, meaning the trips we've received, maybe I'm part of the opposition and at least, that anyone has refused to travel and journals, there's not even any excuse when it's refused at the last minute, not to mention the severances, etc., we know all our sins among ourselves, and then it seems kind of incorrect to put one on a pillar of shame I'd be much more pleased that fellow Arnaut suggested all the ministers to comb through, and all of us representatives here, so let's see everything that's been done, and not just one man individually for buying cheap political points. There is so much about the opposition attitude of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21542	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21543	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome your colleagues and all those present in the O.R. I must say that, you know, although I don't like to say it, that I was provoked by someone's discussion, but here, in this particular case, is a colleague of Novaković when he mentioned the functioning of the Foreign Affairs Commission, then I felt the need and to report, that I should contribute to this discussion, too, because I see that this has gone in the direction that this should not, and even those criticisms on the issue set are really unwanted and they have gone in a way that should not happen in this House where there should be no protection in this House and that there should not be those whose work is not to be discussed and cannot be debated in this House. Speaking of official travels, I am extremely disappointed with the official travels of those who, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, travel whether it was the Presidency, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, other ministries or this House of Representatives. What I can get the impression, which I can very easily explain, is that they are traveling incompetent, incompetent, and that there is virtually no effect of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In part, I agree with my colleague, Bosić, who mentioned it in his discussion, although the reasons for his discussion and mine are not the same, but now that it is not the subject of the debate, we will leave it for another opportunity to discuss it. I don't see any reason why there's a revolt here at the House of Representatives if she felt the need to talk about her co-workerCrnadk and to discuss his work, without anyone thinking for a moment that it was an attack on the Republic of Serbia. You know, I don't care where the officials of Republika Srpska travel, I don't even care where the officials of the Republic of Serbia travel about whose diplomatic activity and political position and influence we can't measure, so these are their problems and the effects of their diplomatic work and the spending of money, so let them discuss it. I also have nothing since if I know that Mr. Lagumdžija spent so much, or Mr. Ivanic, or someone else, and Alkalaj irrelevantly, I don't have any of it if I don't have any concrete insight into the functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and personally in this particular case Mr. Crnadko. I'm not going to say all those words that 17 of him said on TV shows, this, which I've had a chance to see, I have to say I didn't follow it, but with the circumstances I find a show where Mr. Crnadak is a guest and I'm not going to say, here, I just said this is not an attack on the Republic of Serbia, as the debate over all this has been attempted. Of course, I think that, again, I stress that we should open the issue of every minister or any official who, on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, takes the right, by official or any other duty, to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina. You are free here to propose to each of the ministers or officials of any rank to discuss it at the House of Representatives without being misunderstood. What bothers me is that the Foreign Affairs Commission is mentioned, I think it is very incorrect from a colleague of the Crnadko woman why she does not attend the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Commission. We only had the satisfaction of seeing him once at a session of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, which I do not think is in the works, because it is an extremely unfavourable political situation or an external political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the environment, without speaking further in the world. I was particularly convinced of these things when the state team of Bosnia and Herzegovina goes to a European country where the ambassadors don't even know that this presentation is coming, and God Bog they're going to visit it, which in any case would be the obligation of diplomatic and consular officials, who represent this country anywhere, to visit those who come on behalf of that country, to represent it, here's specifically on the sports plan. So I don't think it's correct in this way to discuss and eliminate the possibility of saying all of this, these are serious problems. I'm not against spending money, but I'm against the weak effects of these trips and that's the essence. And if we take just statistical indicators we have a full excuse to talk about all this. And I'd ask you not to take this personally, so don't give Bog, so what if someone has ambition, and ambition is a perfectly normal and logical thing, so it's ambition that draws them forward, and I don't see anything wrong if the criticism that this is about is justified and justified. I want to appeal to all of us to direct our discussion in a concrete direction and discuss concrete data. It's not like it's here on my side now that my co-worker is Crnadak to black or, I don't know, I don't know. toss out the saddle, rather than simply get an objective insight into the functioning of diplomatic and consular representations and networks of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only in the region, but also in the world. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21544	Thank you very much. Representative Nenad Lalić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21545	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues. I also cannot recognise the background of an attempted attack on Foreign Minister Mr. Crnadko, as counterpart Mladen Bosić said, with special emphasis on travel around the world. Given, let's say, a description of his job, that's one of his basic tasks, I don't expect him to travel to Han Pijesak and High, uh, because it's his job. Analyzing all of us here who travel very often, and I can rightly say, often reluctantly travel with regard to, uh, how short travels are, what complex travel processes, precedents and short periods of time, I don't envy him at all on these enormous trips, but I think it's also a huge effort to endure such trips, because a lot of us here don't often travel precisely because of these problems and difficulties. So I don't see, by analysing the operations of previous ministers, I don't see what's wrong, I think this 18 Ministry is one of the better ministries and its, the depravity of the foreign ministry means that the minister should travel around the world. And given that we also don't have that famous lobbying money, since we're a small state, a new, unrecognizable, I find Mr. Crnadko's presence in the countries of the world, only the presence contributes to the presence of us as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I don't even know what's expected of him going to one of the countries, which should give us some kind of, right now by trains to draw some credits, benefits. I think Mr. Secretary is doing his job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21546	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21547	I apologize for reporting under these allegations, I just wanted to comment on my colleague Sokolović's proposal. He said we should extend our proposals. No, let the gentleman suggest either him or the club, so we'll also make those suggestions that he put out here as a possibility, we'll support it no problem, but don't give us instructions on how we should react and act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21548	Thank you very much. I assume Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak will speak. Here you go, Minister. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, there's no more discussion. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21550	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Kolegijum, the honourable MPs, I welcome you all. At first, I want to ask all those who have done this before, trying to have a fight with Parliament, that they should not do it. I greatly appreciate the work of every MP, every delegate who works on the second floor and in the second room and don't exclusively count my appearances in this room and through this prism appreciate my relationship with you. Those who point to it are incorrect, unfair to me, but the less unfair it is to me, the unfair it is to your colleagues sitting here. I never once sat in Sarajevo and there was a session here that I didn't come, not once. And I repeat once again, I greatly appreciate and respect both the importance and what is done and what is happening here, and there is no need for one such thing. I must say, here I am, while we have been there, very rarely, when he mentioned the honourable MP Đonlagić, on the Commission, once or twice, but there are really often materials that relate, first of all, to assistants, sometimes to the secretary, rarely the materials for which 19 imply the obligation of the minister to attend, but here I will try to be present more often now if it is appreciated that there are more needs now. And while I'm already at Mr. Đonlagić's, let me just, we had one discussion here a few months ago, it's really one mistake that's been subdued and I want to apologize to him this time, because really, I don't know how, his parliamentary question was one thing, as people say, we've been able to figure it out right after his intervention here and he's already got that answer in a few days, but here's a row since it was heard here, to hear this right now. I think this is the only case in the world ever to be discussed by one foreign minister in this way, and if no illegality had happened, there was no budget breach, no budget breach, no estimated costs, no gaff, no failure, no scandal. Niko one said the minister was here and there, he said that, and he criticized it, and I didn't hear any of it here. But I am going back to what I said at the beginning, despite this Parliament's right and certainly my obligation to participate in this is one of these debates. As for Parliamentarian Arnaut's initiative, and that's his right, so he got most of it, and here's what we're discussing. I will first say something about the conclusions, to get all this data absolutely is not a problem, that the debate is absolutely no problem again and that calling the Presidency absolutely is no problem, of course it is the decision of your MPs. If you bring her in, I will respect her and absolutely participate in it, and I think it would be good if we had one debate, which, if not, about the foreign-political position, about BH functioning the entire system and the impact of all the institutions, of course, because it's not MIP, away from being the only one working. However, I expected Mr. Arnaut to start today with a card, because often here it potentiates this visa waiver, we did a great thing yesterday, the visas were lifted for all citizens to travel to the most human country in the world, in China, one of the fastest growing economies, the country that is increasingly present in the region but here, it didn't seem worth it. I have to admit that I felt in his performances the ambition to be a new minister, but I really don't want to go in there, except to say very precisely that that way doesn't lead over me and that's not the way. There are three very simple steps, one is that the parliamentary party in which the candidate is in the majority, the second is that the majority decide that the parliamentary party belongs to the candidate and then the party decides that it is the man. It's the only way, I can't help it, I can't help it, I can't help it, there's no need for that. In addition, as far as the effects of various travels and the functioning of the DKP network are concerned, I am sincerely looking forward to it, but at that time all issues will have to be raised, just all issues. We have, here, a situation where only the motioner of the initiative cost the Ministry about 520,000 marks for only one of his mandates as ambassadors, so we need to see what the effects and that were. You have, say, a situation where only one family cost MIP 2.5 million marks in a certain period of time, you need to see what the effects of that kind of money are, do you know how much money it is, what the effects are. Here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I'm not going to talk right now, if this debate comes up, so good idea for this debate, I support it if it comes up full of cooperation and my personal and ministry that I run. As far as the costs are concerned, once again the illogicalness, I think one of the MPs mentioned, that precisely the party in which Mr Arnaut was at the time, had a minister of 20 who, on average, spent between 2.3 - 2.4 million on travel to his ministry, is now about 1.3 - 1.4 - 1.5. Then I don't remember some of these big debates, and a little bit and on that side when you look at it illogically. The point here is that, I don't want to do it anymore, I mean I'd have something else to say about the initiative itself, but I think this is enough if it's going to be a decision to have it, we're going to have it. As far as How much time do I have left? [[the speaker is warned on time]] No, I don't know if, they didn't tell me that...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21552	We've all had, since you have a chance, we don't take care, but, here, take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21553	Well, here's a few things, as far as Mrs. Marković's concerned, a really personal act like this, scarred, shows one terrible earthquake, concern, I don't know what it's all about, why, in such a way, I won't even comment on it because of the weather, I'll give a comment to the media after that, but so many flat-rates, so many things that don't stand, it would take me a really long time. In any case, what needs to be known is that the Ministry I run didn't break the budget for a year, didn't break through any item, no position relating to travel, that people, that people need to know, and MPs need to know that, not once, not once. The second thing, it's being manipulated by that million and a half, so of the million and a half, about 12% goes to the minister's expense, it's kind of a big story. Systematization, consistency, take care of the situation. What does it mean to fix the situation, I don't know what it means? Well, for God's sake, the people who talk about it today were leading the Council of Ministers for 10, 12 years, what did they do? But here, we don't have enough time for that either. You have a basic ignorance, Mrs. Majkić, in the seat is spent on a journey twice as much as in the entire 56 embassies. Well, if Mrs. Majkić had ever read anything about it, she'd know that diplomats who are directed to another country don't travel from there to other countries, of course most, travel is realized from headquarters in every country, and even here in our country, but you have to read something a little bit to know. I wasn't working on a European trip. I've been with every minister, everyone knows exactly how I worked, and how I stood up for it, I don't know, and we can discuss it. But one thing I have to say, I just have to say that I'm astounded as, indeed, by the MPs coming from Republika Srpska, that with so much misbehavior, it's this big event where ten foreign ministers were in Banja Luka, that with so much, with such an ugly relationship going towards it, I can't accept it. So this low policy for me is simply incomprehensible. But I repeat, Mrs Marković and Mrs Majkić have said so much. I appreciate the time, but allow me just two more sentences, given that there were other MPs who had really well-founded discussions and worth answering. Mr Bećirović, an honourable MP, spoke of not implementing a established policy. This is the one thing that really is the topic that would be worth discussing here. What's this about? We have, it's true in the law it says what it says, but on the other hand, we have the fact that the Presidency in the realisation of what it says in the law has only come to a request for the MAP. And that's something that we're all agreed on, essentially, in the Federation certainly, in Republika Srpska that's what brought SNSD and their Council of Ministers, and their member of the Presidency to this day, so there's one consensus about it. And that is why we are practically working in a way that we follow the Presidency and what has been established at the Bureau level, not including in any way, by not promoting what is written elsewhere. Now we've done Proposal 21 of the strategy, and we've sent it to the Presidency, which refers to a period of five years in which it also stands. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And, here, I end up here, I already said, yesterday, visas were lifted by signing an agreement with the Chinese minister, and I'm going to travel to Washington tomorrow where I'm going to have a meeting with Assistant Secretary Tilerson for this space, a representative of the new administration that President Tramp himself chose. After that, I am in the European Parliament, next week visiting with members of the presidency of Belgrade, the OSCE Ministerial Meeting, a meeting with Minister Kurca in Vienna, which will soon become an office, as you know, Austria. Maybe these aren't important things, maybe the minister shouldn't go there, maybe, maybe it really doesn't have any use for it, here I don't know, but one thing I know I'm going to ask you, certainly in preparation for my debate that follows, for all the travel expenses since the members of Parliament Mrs Marković and Mrs Majkić have had that as part of the analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21554	Thank you, Minister. Here I want to tell all the MPs and MPs that we allowed, in a way, given that there was a large number of discussions and discussions, that we allowed as much, in fact, double time for the minister to respond, since, in a way, they were asked by the MPs. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21555	I thank the chairman. I heard before the minister came forward that you had concluded the debate, and to me it was unclear, therefore, Article 180. The Rules of Procedure say the minister, i.e. the Council of Ministers, has the right and obligation to intervene in the debate. I first know that Mr. Crnadak did not speak on behalf of the Council of Ministers, because he has no position of the Council of Ministers, but here's what if we accept that Mr. Crnadak's right, then he was given the right to participate in the debate. So, you can't conclude the debate before he does that discussion, and I'm guessing only on the basis of article 180 you could subdue it. As for Mr. Crnadko's insult, first of all, I have no ambitions, especially not to fix the chaos that you've done at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so here's what I'm saying, I don't have any ambition to be foreign minister, and I've done this because I've been trying through parliamentary issues for two and a half years, so I don't get answers because you're not here and you don't give me answers. As for the ambassadors, let's open the cost of all ambassadors, let's open up the costs of my successor Bakir Sadović in Australia, cousin of Mr Izetbegović, let's go, Tarik Sadović. But no, you won't mention any SDA, I guarantee you that my expenses are less than his, and my effects are much higher, but you can't mention the SDA, Mr. Crnadak, you can't for the same reason that they are. They didn't mention you. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's this symbiotic relationship.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21556	Before I give my next representative my word, I would like to say to the honourable representative, Damir Arnaut, that I have not concluded the debate, so I just said no more reports and I give the word to the Minister, the debate has not been concluded, and this debate that you have now debated is the abuse of this violation of your report to the Rules of Procedure. 22 Advocacy Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations, for the third time a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21557	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21558	Correction of the wrong quote is allowed twice. Representative Damir Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21559	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21560	No, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21561	It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21562	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21563	Look who I let.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21564	I'm sorry, here...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21565	Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21566	I'm using my right, and it's only about the conclusions of the one handed over by the Independent Block. I would suggest to my colleagues if it is possible to change this conclusion in part 1 where "and members of the Parliamentary Assembly" are said to delete it and to say "both MPs and delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly", not just members of the Colleges. So if all MPs and delegates are brought in, that's how I accept these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21567	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate at this point in the agenda. We're moving to point 10, Ad. Ten. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 07/09/2017, which reads: "On the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in the NATO accession process within 30 days, from the date of adoption of the 23rd initiative, with a proposal for concrete measures to dynamic Bosnia and Herzegovina's activities on the way to full membership in NATO," number: 01-50-1-2181/17 The House's College has appointed a Joint Defence and Security Commission for BiH responsible for considering this initiative. The Commission delivered its opinion on the initiative on 23.10.2017. The commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Representative Denis Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21569	Thank you. So, the essence of this proposal, which today and on the agenda of the House of Representatives, is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives gets one report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's NATO integration process and, of course, that the report should include measures to dynamic the Bosnian-Herzegovina path towards NATO. I would like to talk about this extremely important topic with the exclusive language of facts and arguments, given that I would like to say and draw attention today that today is a debate on how and how we implement the laws that we unanimously adopted, and how we implement the decisions adopted unanimously by the BiH Presidency, as well as other acts that have been adopted unanimously here. The debate on this proposal is not a debate on who it is and who is not for full membership of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the NATO Alliance, and we have concluded this garden debate unanimously. The aim of this initiative is to dynamic Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to NATO alliance. When I say that we have made a decision that Bosnia and Herzegovina is going into full NATO membership, then that means the following – the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, both at home, unanimously adopted the BiH Defence Act, the article of the 84th literally states that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and, of course, the BiH Presidency is obliged and obliged, quote – to carry out all necessary activities for the adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina into NATO membership. That is, therefore, a very clear and precise legal provision. In 2003, the BiH presidency unanimously, all three members of the presidency, adopted a document called the General Guidelines for the implementation of the foreign policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there they again plotted that the NATO Alliance is our country's strategic goal. What is of great importance to us, as MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly, is the fact that in 2008 Parliament unanimously, both homes, adopted a resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina's readiness for NATO integration. So, it was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", here it can be seen clearly, in the signature, among other things, that the chairman of the then House of Representatives, Milorad Živković, and the chairman of the House of the Peoples of Rahmetli Sulejman Tihić. What else is there to say? Euro-Atlantic integrations as our goal are also defined in very important documents, these are Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Policy and a document called Bosnia and Herzegovina's Defence Policy. That's why I didn't want to replicate the minister at the previous agenda, there's no more debate, there's a legal fact of decision until they change. So if someone wants to troublesome any adopted strategic goal of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to initiate a procedure to change all of what we are in the last, here I will say, for a decade almost and a half adopted and defined. In this sense, this item of the agenda is an opportunity for us to make it clear in the highest legislative body that an anti-constitutional and pointless resolution has been adopted in the entity of Republika Srpska a month ago, which has no legal effect on the state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the decisions adopted by the state authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, it is important that we have the opportunity to officially, publicly at the House of Representatives session, here in this case, from the opposition, say that Bosnia and Herzegovina has clearly defined foreign policy priorities and that it is our obligation to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21570	Thank you, counsel. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21571	Very short. I don't think there's anything questionable in this initiative, but I would just like to add that the debate that I suppose will follow, first of all, that I hope that the Council of Ministers will prepare this document in this way as requested, will be an opportunity to discuss the role of the institutions individually in this state's business, what is the role of the Ministry of Defence, coffees are the roles of defenders, and among other things a little bit to comment on why it hasn't been appointed for some time by the Advocate at the Council of Ministers, which is what it is, which is the reason for constant prolonging. Let us also discuss some of the locations that are reportedly lost, to comment on this parliamentary part of the commitments through the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and many other aspects. And I think that this previous initiative by Mr Arnaut and this Mr Bećirović, in fact, and without defining it, is being introduced by this control mechanism when it comes to Parliament. And I express my satisfaction about it, especially, of course, if we adopt this and if this is how Parliament starts to refer to the executive authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21572	Thank you. No more reports, closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Declaration on the criteria for determining the route of the future highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo – Proposer: MP Mladen Bosić, number: 01-02-2524/17, of 25.10.2017. And we placed this item in Dom's decision at 53rd session 25.10.2017. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Deputy Mladen Bosić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21574	First of all, let me express the satisfaction of the public's attention, the public's attention caused by this issue, because it is not just about the establishment or opinion of Parliament to set up some route of highway, this is actually about an analysis of how the authorities in this country make decisions of the highest interest for the future of their citizens, in which way decisions are made where to spend 25 resources we all know are not enough for everything that should be done here, in which decisions are made on political, economic and infrastructure priorities in this country. So, behind this whole story is actually this topic, and what's concrete, as far as the highway between Belgrade and Sarajevo is concerned, is just one segment of the whole story. I also expected that various localpatriot feelings would appear. Some people tell me that I did it because I'm from Brcko, so I want to get on my side, other MPs do it, and it's a very natural thing. So, it was never my instinct to get involved in building highways and determining the route of those highways because I wasn't professional about it, but when I saw how this question was solved, I thought I should draw public attention to what was going on. I would also like to respond to those critics who say that the House of Representatives does not have the right to talk about it because it is an entity thing, or infrastructure, the travel infrastructure is in the jurisdiction of the entity. That is true, but this is about a project which is an international project that certain decisions will have to be taken by this House of Representatives, and it is true that without the consent and agreement of the entity, it is not possible to solve any problem of any course, which does not mean that the representatives elected by the citizens should not speak their opinion and their political will about it and does not mean that this House of Representatives should not oblige ministers from the Council of Ministers, who participate in the whole story, in what way, to have in mind the way and the will of the House of Representatives, or its majority. So to go back on this point, here is a question of how decisions are made and whether decisions are made in the best interests of the citizens of this country. It's about interests, there's a lot of personal, particular interests, but the question of a common decision is what's best to be made, first of all, by those who exercise power, and I repeat, I think they're entity representatives. And now to go back, how did these entities ever come to know that there should be one or another path, based on which criteria someone said that route should go to Visegrad, or Gorazde, or Zvornik or via Tuzla. Whether it is the will of the citizens and whether it is in the best interest of the citizens of Republika Srpska to make a decision, that is what I am talking about. It is clear to me that after the agreement to make road communication between Belgrade and Sarajevo that they have appeared, that Turkey also appeared as an interested party to participate financially in the project, and I understand that Turkey first favours the route that would link Bošnjak to Sandzak and Bosniaks in Sarajevo. I don't mind it, it's Turkey's interest, it's a part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest, if Turkey thinks it's funding it, I think every debate here is over, but as far as I know Turkey will, it intends to give credit to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Federation of BiH and our authorities are tasked to represent the interests of our citizens, Not any other country, not Turkey, not Serbia, not Croatia, but the interests of the citizens of our country, and that's what this is about. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's been five minutes, I'm sorry I didn't start talking about the essence, I didn't schedule the time, but I'll get back to you...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21575	You're the promoter, you're right...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21576	Do I have the right to extend my time as a proposing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21577	As far as the legislator is concerned, the Rules of Procedure are defined as having the right to 15 minutes, on these other points, so the Rules of Procedure are not defined, but we will not deny anyone the time if they extend a little bit. So, here, you can. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21578	I'll be very brief. So, please, here's to simplify the whole thing, so Republika Srpska needs to see what its interest is in this whole project, whether it's interested to pay a billion and two hundredths, or to raise a billion and two hundredth loan by one route of that route, which, according to analysis, will be used by 2,000 vehicles, or is an interest to pay half as much, means 600 million for the second route that will be used by 15,000 vehicles. What is the interest of the Federation in this whole story, is it an interest to have a path that will connect, I don't know who, but which will be used, here I repeat, 2,000 vehicles or is the interest of the Federation that one end, means I mean Tuzla and Tuzla Canton and the northeastern Federation and the Republic of Serbia is drawn from travel isolation? Now let me not open the story about why it is, why everyone goes around that area and what's the reason for it. I can see I don't have time, but I'll report through the replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21579	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21580	I thank the chairman. I then, by that logic, had the right to 15 minutes or at least to extend the discussion at the last point where I was the promoter, but you interrupted me when five minutes went by and I really did all the time, I knew that this member of the Rules applied only to the legislators and therefore I did not go forward, but I only ask that when you already implement the Rules of Procedure, then to all MPs the same, you use the same standards. Now, as far as correcting the wrong quote is concerned, I just want to know if I understand correctly Mr. Bosić. Since it really bothers me when the debate on highways starts immediately by proposing ethnic issues and some ties between Bošnjak Sandžak and Bošnjak in Sarajevo are being discussed. So, you, if I understand correctly, said Turkey might want to connect Bošnjak from Sandzak to Bošnjak in Sarajevo and therefore propose this route, but as far as I know, Serbia insists on this route to the Vardište. And then can we draw a logical conclusion that then Serbia will, too, that it is your argument that Serbia also wants to connect Bošnjak from Sandzak to Bošnjak from Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21581	Thank you very much. Representative Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21582	I welcome you to the Honorable Chairman, I welcome all present. When this story began about Turkey's readiness to finance the route of Sarajevo -- Belgrade with a group of colleagues, I launched an initiative that the route of course goes through Tuzla, leading to some of its findings and assessments. After that, all this story started, so we had from various local communities, one, attitudes, meetings, where they suggest another 27 routes and, of course, it's perfectly legitimate and it's quite right that such a significant project wants to be implemented alongside their municipalities, through their municipalities, beside their homes, and, of course, I have no objections there. I fully agree that apart from this route and the needs of the road we also need to build some other roads, let's say Lasva, Western Bosnia, through Hercegova's western, of course, connecting and Gorazd from Sarajevo, but what I like most about all of this is that when it comes to such important projects that the sense of political opposite is lost between local communities and very easy to find common language between... options for the route to be directed right through its, through their area, or even to connect various interests between entities, and even between regions in two or three countries. I think the policy here should, of course, give its opinion but that in all this should include the profession, that the profession, by leading what the profession defines, to define this course, of course, the profession that is professional, not politically similar, is influenced, and that it determines where it should go this time, everything that is defined in this Declaration. And I think about that and, of course, that I'm going to support this Declaration, what I would like to appeal is to do it as soon as possible. The question is how long will this offer of Turkey be current, and, of course, it's better to do it today than tomorrow, it's better to do it one time, connect people today than tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21583	Thank you very much. Representative Milica Marković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21584	Thank you. Well, here, I want to say that it is certainly news that one of these highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina will certainly be good and positive news, and in the interest it will certainly be citizens and everyone else who will transit this, uh, roadway. As far as this Declaration is concerned, then, before we enter the Declaration today, I expected Mr. Bosić here to give an explanation for the initiative that we heard from the media two or three days ago, which is what I understood as a decision, the conclusion of the SDS, to be asked to make two highways. One would be this route that was overrun in the Declaration, and the other would be some other route, which is now pretty much causing confusion. I think Mr. Bosić should explain, that an explanation for such a phenomenon from his, such a statement from his party. And as for the determination of the course itself, I think that this, this kind of formalized Declaration and this kind of patterned route in it can only bring additional confusion in the whole process of preparation and determination that will really be the route and that will ultimately be the route on which that highway will be worked. I, as far as I know from the media, have been communicating with the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure about this business with the Ministry of Transport and Transport in the Council of Ministers and communicating with entity construction ministries, so the government of Republika Srpska and the government of the Federation. It is clear and should not be overexplained that the people who work in these ministries and who will deal with this project will certainly have to provide certain criteria with clear, er, explained and data in terms of rentability, economic justification, the number of populations that will be used by this highway and other things that are important as preconditions in order to, as a basis for a single project to do this project at all. So that's what the profession needs to determine and say, and this declaration from Parliament, I think, can only bring additional confusion and complicate this whole story. I'm not saying that Parliament is not invited to talk about this, certainly it is, but I think today's conclusion should be, therefore, to leave this opportunity and opportunity for the people of the profession to say where it is. 28 As for what Mr. Bosić said, and on the basis of which some have suggested some other routes, let's say that from Visegrad via Sokolac, pasti, Rogatice, according to Sarajevo, this same question can also be asked to Mr. Bosić, whom he provided the criteria of explanation to propose this very route. The position of the Republika Srpska government is, right away, to say that it is the route from Visegrad, via Rogatica, Sokolc, Pal, towards Sarajevo. And I think the SDS has just thrown out one conclusion like this to ask for another highway under the pressure of dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction of that local population. And why is that? This local population on the move was insinuating on this declaration, this proposal is being made, for the reasons they said, and I agree with that, too, that Tuzla and Sarajevo as large cities, so, despite this highway, have already had a pretty good travel communication either highways or highways. Bijeljina and Brcko will also get good communication when the third leg of the highway is done, meaning Banja Luka – Doboj, from Doboj towards Brcko and Bijeljina and exits towards Serbia. This region, this area, therefore, from Rogatice, Visegrad, Rogatica, Sokolac, Pale, according to Sarajevo, is the only opportunity for them to get one like this, a modern and new path and there will be no more such opportunities, there will probably be no such opportunities soon. And that's why the local population was insolent and publicly said it disagreed with the proposal, the formulation in this Declaration. So I think we should take care of that because it's, uh, citizens of this country and we can't ignore their attitude, especially if he's justified, and the main argument is that this is the only opportunity for them at this point to get a good and modern road on that move. So, I think that this should be considered once again, either to supplement this Declaration or to maybe even reform it by making sure that the proposal is from Republika Srpska and that there is already a view of the Republika Srpska government in this regard, and I think that this whole job and the whole project is just at the beginning and we just need to hear and listen to all the criteria, and all the explanations and all the arguments as to why it is good to do this highway in one region, and let's say it's less good in another region than anything else, I say, valid arguments that we need to be told, including us here in Parliament. So, I, as a Republika Srpska MP, will be primarily led by the government of Republika Srpska, because it is competent to state its position on this. Her attitude is, once again, that The route goes Visegrad, Rogatica, Sokolac, Pale, towards Sarajevo. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21585	Thank you very much. A colleague, Deputy Mladen Bosić, rectification of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21586	So, first Mr. Arnaut about what Erdogan is, which I claimed Erdogan said was their, their interest, which I do not dispute, it was confirmed to me by the ambassadors of Turkey here, and to remind you, you probably don't know that Mr. President of Serbia, Vučić said that, too, that this route would connect the Bosniaks in Sandzak with the Bošnjak in Sarajevo, I don't know whether Sandzak said or, as he said. And I do, so there's no intention of saying anything against Turkey, or Serbia or anyone, that's how, there's all kinds of interests, I understand all kinds of interests, and I respect them. Mrs Marković, in that Declaration, it says in one view that the Parliamentary Assembly supports all other routes that would be supported by the two countries, and the intensity in the title of the Declaration itself is precisely that on the basis of the criteria, it is only possible to do so, and not that we are arguing here whether 29 should go through Visegrad, or through Tuzla, or should pass through Gorazde. So all of this will be funded by the citizens of this country and must be kept in mind what their interests are. And, Mrs. Marković, I understand the local population of Visegrad, I understand the local population of other cities who think they will benefit from it, but I don't understand why you don't represent the interests of the local population of the city you come from, which is also interested in having in your area, especially if the criteria clearly indicate it, have a highway that will pass through. I, right away, have already achieved what I wanted, based on this discussion is also the President of Turkey, I cannot say pretentiously They are having discussions, but based on the whole situation [[the speaker is warned on time]] Turkey's Erdogan said that this route should also be made through Tuzla, or both, and Serbian President Vučić said he is ready even to finance the route that would go to Bijeljina, and then to finance the rest. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I think already the effects of what we're talking about are mostly achieved and it's going to be something that's going to be in favor of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21587	Thank you very much. Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21588	Well, there's no need for Mr. Bosić to take such low blows towards me, uh, about my discussion because it's not true that I don't support the attitudes of the local population from which I come, so it's Bijeljina and Semberija, but you're simply a politician who won't consider rational reasons in some story. And the rational reason for Bijeljina and Semberija is that Bijeljina and Semberija, at the moment, probably has the best and fastest connection with the highway to Serbia, so the highway to Belgrade, because this is about the road to Sarajevo – Belgrade, so the best and fastest communication is across Rače. The communication is so that you can go about 40km on the highway to Belgrade. So you have no reason to object to me. And the other thing, the short highway that the government of Republika Srpska is doing from Banja Luka, I have already said that, but here, I repeat, you probably did not listen, so the highway that goes from Banja Luka through Doboj and the leg that will go towards Bijeljina and Brcko, i.e. Semberija, is also coming to Serbia. So Bijeljina and Sembarija will have two options to take the highway to Serbia, towards Belgrade. And you now respect me that I do not support the interest of the local population, and I fully understand the attitude of people and citizens who say, therefore Višegrad and this move towards Sarajevo via the pasti, who tell us this is the only chance we have of getting a good highway and that we have good communication as well as other cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But, of course, you have to go all the way now because you ran off with this, you said as if we were following the criteria, taking care of the criteria, so when you were thinking about the criteria that you ran out with this Declaration, you didn't wait for someone competent and professional from the ministry to say what the criteria were and where you could really provide the highway and build in the most profitable and economical way and the most useful way for citizens. So, you didn't wait for it, but you wanted to get some political points, and now you see that you've complicated the situation and the people, and the people who live there, and the institutions that deal with it, and the government of Republika Srpska, so you just added All of this. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21589	Thank you very much. 30 Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21590	I don't think it would be a good idea for them to leave this session today for the wrong message. Here, we heard what Parliament's Marković was talking about, but the fact is that the mayor of Bijeljina was legally and legitimately elected from the citizens of Bijeljina in the elections, he made it very clear in previous weeks at a press conference together with the mayors of Brcko and Tuzla, who presented the interest of the vast majority of citizens of Bijeljina that this route is going in the way in this Declaration and said. And on that point, I want to say that really for this route that would go through Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina there are very strong reasons for the economic nature, geographical, traffic, so if you want, it's no big deal, and demographic reasons. In the region of northeastern Bosnia, close to 1.5 million residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina live, not to mention all industrial and other potentials. And it's an absolute interest, not only in Bijeljina, Tuzle, Brcko, but also in Calesia, Ugljevik, Lopar, Srebrenica, Gradac, Zivnica, Banović, Ugljevik, etc., etc. That's what the public needs to say today. I think this whole declaration situation will also help this conclusion offered by the SBB Club. So, it doesn't mean if this is priority number one that we won't be working, and in a very short time, and on these priorities when it comes to connecting Sarajevo with Gorazde, I would say more intensively connecting Sarajevo with Travnik, Bihać and all other planned routes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that sense, it would be good, therefore, if we had in mind what the messages are really citizens and representatives of citizens in both BH entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21591	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21592	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, you know, when it comes to large infrastructure projects, they can be viewed with two aspects, it can be viewed with an economic interest that contains in itself a series of these other aspects such as demographic, geographical and others that come under this category of economic aspects, of course infrastructure, but also political aspects of investing in some infrastructure facility. I have to say that I have been dealing with this problem for more than 20 years, I apologize if I bother my colleague Bosić and my colleague Džaferović, I would like to ask a little attention, I know I'm not saying epochal things, but please if you can be correct, and I am listening to you, so this is a question that we can put into one declaration in which we should express our position when it comes to this truly large investment. We need a lot, a lot more infrastructure facilities than we have right now and more than what we have drawn in some perspective. But when we talk about economic aspects, I would still count some economic issues that are very important, standardised, and highly recognised in making a final decision, if it were run by economic categories. So, in this area lives about, here is what counterpart Bećirović said, about 1.5 million inhabitants and, therefore, not only Bošnjak, Srbin or only Hrvat, but there are others to say, as the Constitution of BiH categorized. This is the area which, at this point, creates certainly at least one third of Bosnia and Herzegovina's gross national income. Is this area infrastructureally connected? No, no matter what colleague Marković said she had 40 km, yes, but that's 40 km through the settlement, it's totally unacceptable. In this way neither the cereals that are actually this northeastern Bosnia, of course, we can discuss whether it is like the Krajina and that, but in any case, area 31 where many agricultural products are produced. With these roads, with this new infrastructure capacity, the availability of the market for those who produce them will be significantly higher and significantly more quality than it has been present so far. In the procedure this time, it should also be said, is the only port in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is Brcko port, which must not be lost from sight at any time. Then I would tell you, probably you don't know, maybe one of you will remember, in the former state there was a direction that colleague Marković mentioned, not as the idea of Republika Srpska to make that highway, not only, but the coincidence, and I support that direction, was made as a parallel corridor to a loaded corridor that was going along the highway of the Brotherhood and Unity and the railway that was going to Belgrade-Beograd-Zagreb, because it was one of the main infrastructure directions in Europe, not only in Southeast Europe, but in Europe in general. But the events that have led some things to other directions, so when we get a chance to hear where the infrastructure path of silk is going this morning, we see that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a certain way bypassing it. Serbia, of course not, because Serbia has done everything to improve its infrastructure capacities. In that sense, I really want to point out and confirm that neuptina is the economic justification this time. On this road, I think that fellow Bosić, I would do it a little bit, not 15,000, 20,000 vehicles, 20,000 vehicles are on this course that is extremely burdened and represents one of the black points of the infrastructure capacities of Southeast Europe. So that's the direction that goes to Zepč, let's not lose sight of it, so it goes all the way from Zvornik, of course, to Zepč, so it's connecting to corridor 5c. 56.4 km passes corridor 5c, let's say we go to Tuzla and of the other parts of Tuzla Canton and no one, no one finds it appropriate to say anything about it, and there's a problem if we have 2.5 kilometers that corridor 5c passes from some city and there's a heated debate, even with ethnic connotations. I mean, it's really, really incorrect and, in my opinion, unquestionable that this is the direction that has all the economic justifications. Of course, with this direction, and that's what I really have to agree with my colleague, Bosić, no other direction is being discriminated against, but other directions also have a need, so here's the connection, whatever you want, with whoever you want to connect with. I think we need infrastructure capacity, not having infrastructure facilities like this where, here I asked the question, and the airport in Sarajevo doesn't work after 10 hours, as one of the infrastructure capacities. Of course, I am sure that the expert teams that are working will definitely be the ones who will give the proposal a course, not only will they be willing to invest in this infrastructure capacity, those who will determine a specific direction, but also their opinion will be respected in any case, but the attitude of those people who speak from this expert aspect will be respected. Of course, I understand colleagues who defend the need and stress the need for other parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina to have the opportunity to better connect infrastructure. Yeah, but there are different categories of roads, there's a highway, there's a fast road and, I don't know, I don't know, etc. So we have an extremely bad infrastructure, this time Tuzla-Sarajevo-Sarajevo, it's really embarrassing, though 125 km, it's nothing Bog knows what, in Europe it's a standard of 45 minutes, here is 2 hours and 45 minutes with the possibility of paying at least two or three penalties in Lead, and not to speak any further. How many times a man puts his life in danger driving this way and it's completely incomprehensible. I know that there are some political games and the third option mentioned, she just showed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21593	Time
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21594	Thank you very much. Have you warned me or the timer? Well, anyway, I support this Declaration and we will support this Declaration. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And thank you, fellow Košarac player, who warned you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21595	Thank you. Ambassador Staša Košarac, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21596	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, you as a colleague, members of the Council of Ministers. As the first time this was found as a proposal for the agenda point and when we commented, so today I have the view that the House of Representatives at this stage is prematurely positioned and discussed potential construction of the highway. So I went a little further, so I checked with the Ministry of Traffic if ever the House of Representatives on any route of travel communication in Bosnia and Herzegovina made such a decision. I've received information that it's never been done and I think today it's unnecessary for the House of Representatives, to talk about this phase and in this way, to base and define its position when it comes to the course. First of all, I think that in the very name of the Declaration and with the content of the Declaration there is a lot of contradiction in the sense that in the name of the Declaration it is stated that it is the choice of criteria for selecting the route, and then in the third position of the Declaration itself appears very clearly, precisely defined course which, apparently, is not the solution offered by Republika Srpska, its institutions, given that they are included, and that we had the information from the Ministry's representative, in fact in this process, but obviously Mr. Bosić, yours, I suppose, because you are the signator of the initiative, or this Declaration. This opens up a lot of problems for one space, which is also the political public, I would say even the structure from which you come, divided when it comes to this route, that one is challenging your proposal, and the other is supporting your proposal. We have a clear view, and this is the last time we received information from the Deputy Minister that Republika Srpska and its institutions in this sense have made it very clear that it is this route that goes through Rogatica, Višegrad, Sokolac, which in some way allows this part of Republika Srpska to have a chance to develop and that Republika Srpska is simply using this type of capacity to provide infrastructure projects that would give that part of Republika Srpska with a more significant chance for development. At the same time, I think it was one of the predecessors who commented, that the Republika Srpska government, through the construction of the Banja Luka highway -- Belgrade, via Doboj and Bijeljina, planned one of those kinds of arms, and I think it is not good that the House of Representatives is clearly determined when it comes to the course. I believe that the predstavnički of Representatives has a role to play when it is, I suppose, in terms of ratification of an agreement, but in this way I do not think that this Declaration for us from Republika Srpska is unfavourable and should not be supported. I appeal once again, I thought that on the basis of the conversations that were conducted all the time, after the content of this Declaration appeared, that there was a willingness that you would withdraw it for the reasons of the very defined route, but obviously you stayed with yourself and we would determine when the vote was made when it came to the Declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21597	Thank you. Ambassador Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21598	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I welcome you. 33 I am not inclined to support the definition that policy defines the conditions for an infrastructure project. That's what an alternative profession should do, and politics should be defined as alternatives. I will be restrained because of this declaration. On the other hand, we are the BiH Parliament and we must make sure that our responsibility, among other things, is to contribute to the coherent development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. In this way, without the necessary expertise, we can contribute to the damage on the path of a coherent development of Bosnia and Herzegovina in infrastructure equipment, in the chance of developing territory. We know that Bosnia and Herzegovina in its development capacity is not the same all over the space, that this is drastically different, and we must be very careful about that. So I think it's crucial that we have expert bases before we bring a commitment. I wish we were more practical and direct in building what we don't have. I am deeply aware of the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is slipping into infrastructure self-insulation from the rest of the world, that international plans for transport infrastructure facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are bypassing and that it is very important for us not to waste time. With a lot of respect, we should also analyse this situation with what we do with these parts towards Drina, and Foca, and Gorazda, and exit to Montenegro, and exit to Macedonia, and exit to Serbia, and when we need to put that into priority. Some will tell us to contribute because of our economic interest, because of our investment in the road, to contribute to a more advanced development and to neglect others. I am sure that was not the intention in the proposal, but Parliament's commitment as the largest segment of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have been chosen by citizens, must be based on what the profession is edifying. That is why I will remain abstention in relation to the proposal of this Declaration for the simple reason that, apart from good intentions and some elements of commitment, there is no whole that can allow for a decision defining a course. If we had stayed at the level of debate on the criteria that will produce the effect of the course, I would have supported it, but we have inserted inside this Declaration and what is the course and it excludes my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21599	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21600	It's not about what Mr. Škaljić was talking about, but I'd like to draw attention to the fact that today, at this point in Parliament, there are no representatives of a nation, and I'm asking the College are we going to continue to work? I don't think it would be a good idea if we kept working, there's no representative of the Croatian people in... let's see what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21601	So the President-in-Office informed us that he had to leave briefly and asked me to continue the session. So I don't have any other information. We can, we need to see if it exists, but I don't have any request or any information that there are any other reasons or that there's any intention, but here, we'll ask around and we'll see about it. So, the next MP is Borislav Bojić. Here you go. _________(?) 34 [[no microphone turned on]] Denis Bećirović, correction of the wrong allegations, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21603	My fellow Bojić, or Bosić, I apologize, there is one thing very clearly to point out, this is the House of Representatives, what Košarac was talking about, these kinds of objections refer to the House of Peoples. Here the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are represented in the House of Representatives and not only in this House of Representatives of the HDZ representatives of Hrvat dakle, we need to establish a business whether we have a prescribed business quorum or not, that is, what is according to the Rules of Procedure. The other thing is whether or not to schedule the College and even bring some other assessment, but business should also be chaired to determine what the Rules of Procedure is and how we do in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21604	Okay, thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21605	Partly correcting you. I made sure not to refer to members of the HDZ alone, there are no Croatian MPs in the House of Representatives here. If you could take a half hour off, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-29-0.u21606	A half-hour break.
