ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3640	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 33rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House. The session is attended by 12 delegates – 4 from Bosniak, 4 from Croatian and 3 from the Serbian people. For justified reasons, it is not possible to attend a total of 3 delegates. For today's session was justified by Mr Dragutin Rodić, Mr Darko Babalj and Mr Fahrudin Radončić. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that, along with the invitation to the 33rd session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. These letters, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 33rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, were also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Sead Kadić to the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Mr Ismir Juska and delegate Mario Karamatić, as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, submitted their announcement to ask delegate questions in oral form. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue concerns were delivered. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV service to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start with the part about asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to the distinguished delegate, my colleague Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3641	Dear Mr. Chairman, co-chair, colleagues and fellow delegates, chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers at the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I welcome all of you together. 2 My question concerns the status of the Union railway, and I have asked this same question on two occasions in 09.10.2015 and 21.11.2016, and I have received the answer to these questions, but I must express my satisfaction here that everyone responsible in this chain has raised the issue and as an epilogue of this story today we have almost certain electrification of the Union railway about 50 km through both entities to the city of Bihać. This act of electrification of the UN railway, which has reached Bihać, provides the possibility to activate and continue the electrification of this railway in the direction of Knin and the Adriatic ports of Split, Sibenik and Zadar, which would be of great benefit both to our country and to the state of Croatia. Due to further update of this issue and this important project for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I asked the Minister of Transport and Communications Mr. Juski and my question is: (a) Why was the Interstate Agreement signed in 2010 signed by the competent ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, which refers to how the Bihac railway line was used and maintained by the state border authorities? b) Is a joint working group whose task was the detailed analysis of the current situation, and the development of elaborates for the restoration, modernisation and marketing of the Union railway? The formation of this working group was agreed on 11.05.2017 at the meeting of the Ministers of Transport and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Ismir Jusk and Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Oleg Butković. If it was formed as far as it came with her fieldwork? c) Since this is a state project in the interest of both entities – is it possible to provide part of the funding for the implementation of this project with the involvement of the state level in terms of the use of funds from the European Union funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3642	Thank you. The time for an answer has been given by a respected minister, Mr. Jusko. Here you go, Mr. Jusko.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3643	The Honorable Chairman, Deputys and Honorable Representatives and Representatives, ladies and gentlemen, media representatives. Your Honor, I thank you for asking this question, and I think I have information that will certainly satisfy what you expect from me as Secretary-General and Council of Ministers. I am not a fan of retroactive, so to speak, mind and that we are dealing with analyses which are why some things weren't done in 2010, believe me that we are dealing with these things would have spent a lot of time, but I can say that we did and started after 10 years, so to speak, putting aside this extremely important infrastructure project with the date that you stated when we signed the Agreement with the imported oleg Butković, Minister Oleg Butković. I would like to point out one extremely good co-operation, both with representatives of the Croatian government and the rest of the ministry, we did not need to put each other, so to speak, to know how important this project is for both country and country. In the meantime, we held talks with representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and asked them for confirmation, which you have now highlighted, which is how important this is for the ports of Zadar, Split and Sibenik. In a very short period of time, we got that and how important it is that the 3 tracks are activated as soon as possible. And this is also what the Ministry has done, and with Commissioner Bulc, we have informed about this project, frankly, extremely happy with the fact that this project is being activated, that the ministries agree on this issue. After that we also held talks with representatives of the European Investment Bank U, here, just over 16 months of mandate, I have never seen more interest in investing in a project like this. At tomorrow's Council of Ministers meeting, this information will be adopted. In the meantime, we have asked for opinions from the resolution institutions, and we have also asked for the names of the people who will be in this task force. Meanwhile, the ministry has been working on gathering information that when this task force starts working, we already have stored materials. After tomorrow, we have no obstacle to work, but it is quite ready and I believe that this is a project that and what it has seemed to be coming to life as soon as possible. It's all going in a positive direction, so here, and after this we'll keep you informed to tell you which direction everything's going in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3644	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Within a minute, delegate Kadić has the opportunity to say whether he is satisfied with the answer. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3645	I'm satisfied with the answer and I don't have any additional demands on the matter, often here say colleagues, and written... I say I don't need any written answer, I'm satisfied because I know for a fact that this railroad will work. Not because someone, here, is good that we want to, and thank the Minister and all those involved in this, but it is also the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of all those people, especially those who live in the process, is it, or besides this UN railway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3646	Thank you too, Mr. Kadić. The word now has a distinguished delegate, Mr Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a special greeting to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I must tell you that you've fixed my day, you've been late 20 seconds at the session, so I said I'm not so much of a jinx as I want to ask that he's been prevented or that he can't come, so I'm extremely glad to see you. My question concerns the work of the Out-of-Scotgrovine Chamber. In contact with Bosnia and Herzegovina's freight carriers and passengers across the area, I have learned, in my opinion, a shocking fact that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is charging, imagine, compensation for the alignment of international and inter-entity bus routes, and even more shockingly, the compensation for processing reports on the use of CEMT permits, which makes it unclear to me by law. So these are the same passengers and burdens that the External Chamber of Commerce 4 should be supporting, means helping them develop, helping them in their work, creating a positive business environment, but this association of citizens took the right to add additional parafiscal burdens to them. According to the information I have so far, passengers have submitted more than 2.5 thousand requests for the alignment of international and inter-entity bus schedules and according to that data, so, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, legally or not, will have to determine, has received more than a million marks at the level of the year. Also, just information, that processing a CEMT license they charge 5 marks, now people who have ten trucks that are already serious numbers and monthly, and annually, etc. And following a recent statement by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, in which they state that blackmailers, my question is, of course, I do not expect you to give me a complete answer at this session, I expect it extensively in written form – did the Council of Ministers of BiH consider fees for harmonising international and inter-entity bus schedules carried out by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH and the fees for processing the CEMT report? If so, at which session are they discussed and in which "the Official Messenger of BiH" are they published? If not, I ask the President of the Council of Ministers to explain to me – on what basis does the VTK charge those fees to carriers, will they take measures to determine responsibility if it is found that the fees are charged and are not prescribed by the Law on Administrative Taxes, or any other sublaw? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3648	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. The word has been given to the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, if I am well informed by the Council of Ministers on the schedule, I am. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3649	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable College, the Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, fellow Council of Ministers, I welcome you all. So today, we have two issues concerning the same institution, and they come from a respected envoy, Karamatić, and the agreement was that the answers to these questions would present to this respected Dom respected Minister Šarović. So, very briefly to your question – we have not taken our stand on such permits, but we will generally tie up both your first and second questions, and then, apart from the oral part, we will give you one detailed written answer in all segments of your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3650	Thank you, Chairman. Does that mean the Honorable Minister Šarović wants to take his word or not? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We don't have any more questions for Mr. Mario Karamatić. This is his only announced question. He may have filed a request for a question at one of the previous sessions. 5 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3653	microophone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3654	You want it anyway. The word has a respected minister, Mr Mirko Šarović. Here you go, Mr. Šarović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3655	Thank you, Chairman. Imported delegates. Well, here we will take advantage of this time, and our expectations were precisely for this issue to be on the agenda today and perhaps at the shortest to say that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH was established by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce Act, "Official Messenger", number 30/01 as a legal follower of the former Chamber of Commerce and that according to Article 2 of this Act, it is an independent, non-governmental, non-political, public-legal association of business entities from Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this Law, that, in addition to its competences established by the Law, public powers are established which are transferred to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which are professional and operational transactions to issue final consent to detashmen in accordance with the Interstate Agreement of BiH – the Federal Republic of Germany, issuing forms of origin of goods, issue of..., i.e.e. the TIR karnet, in the Chamber of Trade Members, etc. By law, the law limited the amount of monthly membership fee for members and it can be a maximum of three average salaries in Bosnia and Herzegovina and therefore the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is not financed in any way from the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. And perhaps the most important question that I should point out to him is that the Chamber of Public Authorities does not apply to it Article 9. Bosnia and Herzegovina's government law, i.e. these, for these jobs that it has not provided for budget compensation, is meant by public authority, from the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget. The details are carried out under the '96 Interstate Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Germany. the year in accordance with the Law and in accordance with the Foreign Trade Policy Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that member, that law, that is, its Article 6. The law says – that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations provides the necessary number of bilateral and multilateral permits, quotas, detashmans and so on for business purposes in Bosnia and Herzegovina in line with the needs of entities and opportunities to obtain these permits. The distribution is done on entities, and these on end-users. Every year, the ministry provided about two thousand detashmen, i.e. a license to work in the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of 6 then distributed to entities in proportion to 2:1 to the Federation and Republika Srpska. And the final, perhaps most important, these detashman entities, i.e. the Federation and Republika Srpska chambers, share their business entities and issue permits. As they share and to whom they share it is already a question of the criteria under which they work and the External Chamber of Commerce in this entire process ultimately implements these permits through its system and issue a final agreement whether they have been implemented in accordance with the Law and informs partners in the Federal Republic of Germany about this. According to the Law, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is mandatory every year, and that is to say, until 31 March for the previous year, to submit to the Council of Ministers a report on the implementation of the budget, but only to meet, not to be adopted. According to information provided by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, since the legal obligation was introduced, they regularly submit the report to the BiH Council of Ministers' Secretariat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3656	Thank you, Mr. Minister. It also covered that question which was raised in written form to the General Secretariat in accordance with Rule 158 (1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, and therefore, if Mr Mario Karamatić wishes, he can, of course, now take the opportunity to say whether he is satisfied with the answer to both questions, or whether he wants to receive a special written reply as it was written asked by the Secretariat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, Mr. Šarović read to me very carefully certain provisions of the Law, with further clarifications that I did not ask for, or ask. So my question to the Secretary of the Council of Ministers was precise – Does the Foreign Chamber of Commerce deliver reports and if it delivers why they were not on the agenda? If he delivers, the Honorable Minister claims to deliver, I have no reason to doubt his words, I am interested in why they were not on the Council of Ministers' agenda. So we sit here in Parliament and when we receive information, it is on the agenda. So, there's something, in my opinion, that's wrong and there's someone hiding something. And I am asking for a precise answer from the Secretariat, and I would once again like to thank the Honorable Minister, and of course this question I have asked here is not even possible to give an answer like this orally, and here I would like to ask the Minister of State who is in charge of monitoring the work of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to deliver me a comprehensive reply in writing to the questions I have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3658	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić, your will will be respected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We end this part of today's session and move on to reading the agenda. For the 33rd session, the following amended is proposed: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1610/17 of 04.07.2017, shortened procedure; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-1374/17 since 28.07.2017; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-687/17 since 28.07.2017; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02- 02-1-1378/17 since 28.07.2017; 6. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17 of 25.04.2017; 7. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17 of 12.05. 2017; 8. A programme for the development of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's system of protection and rescue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies, the BiH Ministry of Security material, number: 02-04-1049/17 of 25.05.2017; 9. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure – applicant: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01.02-34-1893/17 of 25.10.2017; 10. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of one member of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of the Serbian People – applicant: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-2474/17 of 25.10.2017. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for the word with the amendment and supplemental proposals? I see there are no reports. The agenda referred to above shall be adopted and shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. 8 We move on to the record statement. Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present, 12 were for, no one was against or abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, from Republika Srpska – 3 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that the minutes of the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1610/17 of 04.07.2017, shortened procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3661	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3662	It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present, it is the chairman, pardon minister... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't want a word. Okay. Then we open the debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We're moving on to a plea. We vote on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration in the second reading. Thank you. Of the 12 delegates present, 10 were for, no one was against, two delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, against no one, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority but there's no entity, so we're moving to a consultation in the College. 9 [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3666	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3667	It's like the report. Thank you. Now I give the word to the biller, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, he doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. 10 Thank you. Out of the 12 delegates present – 10 were for, 1 v, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority, so we're moving to a consultation in the College. [[/consultations of the College.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3670	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3671	Mr. Kadić. So the proposal is Sead Kadić. I call on the chairman of the Croatian People's Club. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3672	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3673	I apologize to you, but you're gonna need a microphone, I don't see from here that, now you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3674	In the name of the Croatian Club, Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3675	Thank you. The proposal is Mr. Martin Raguž. Mr. Nović on behalf of the Serbian People's Delegates Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3676	No microphone 11 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3677	Since it didn't sound right, well, the proposal is Mr. Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3678	We can do the Babalja if you think it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3679	Okay. I agree that we have agreed on names related to members of this Commission from the House of Peoples, these are: Mr. Sead Kadić, Mr. Martin Raguž and Mr. Darko Babalj. Now I invite you to come forward with me on a proposal. Thank you. Of the 12 present, 12 were for, against no one, abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, from Republika Srpska – 3 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I realize that we have adopted members of the Joint Commission for the Consensation of the text of the Law of the House of Peoples and that: Mr. Sead Kadić, Mr. Martin Raguž and Mr. Darko Babalj. Now we move to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-687/17 of 28. Seventy-seven. 2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3682	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3683	As in the report. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he wishes. As in the proposal. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3684	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3685	I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3686	I welcome you, of course, the ministers and all the guests. Let me just see, uh, there's Mr. Arnaut. I probably wouldn't answer for this because this is my question of whether an ambulance would pass, it wouldn't, I had an attitude. However, in the last completed session, which you had there, which was completed, you said twice about us from the House of Nations so that I would now have to rephrase you, as you said at the session, I will tell you. The first thing you said is that, as I quote, a delegate from the House of Nations is against the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets. I'm the only one, here's the two of us, but I'm the only one talking, so it was me. The question was, if you remember a colleague, the establishment of an Interresor Group on the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets. I responded to Mr Tadić, who resigned from another Interresor group and explained why he resigned after a few points to propose another Interresor group, and then I said what the new Interresor group was for when you said it was a joke, in terms of forming an Interresor group. And I now believe that the formation of an Interresor group in a year until the election is without need, because there is nothing that can be solved, as has not been resolved by the election law, I still don't know if it has met. So, I didn't say about the law that I was against him and that he was lame, but I said that as far as the law is concerned, he already exists, and the interrogation can start with me, the one who needs to be questioned. Secondly, at that session you said you were surprised, now I quote you, you wonder that HDZ's representatives, or envoys are against one of these civilized laws. I've never really been against anything that's been civilized in my life, so that's why I signed up to discuss it, so the law came out of Mr. Minister Jusk before, when it was, maybe in the second month that went through the whole procedure and the public debate, there were amendments, we went through all of it, and the law was finally adopted here. So that right after the adoption of the law, which we adopted, there was this story of an ambulance and a fire car. We heard the explanation last time that someone said, someone said, someone said, that politicians, although I don't know what that means, are going around, having an advantage over an ambulance and a fire department car. That's what you said, too, that you were told that this implies that I couldn't get in the way of a car like that. I also believe that this is understood, because many things are understood and cannot be entered into the law, for example, it is understood that the original copy of the Dayton Agreement cannot be found behind the couch, so you can't write in the law – it can't be behind the couch, so something means where something should be found. So everything can't even be found in the law. And we have a law in which we have severely punished people who are under the influence of alcohol and other opiates, and they are now, and right now, they're driving under the influence of alcohol and real accidents on the road. So, after that story, I, of course, had the opportunity to talk to the police body coordination directors, as a member of the Finance Committee, they were with us, and I asked them openly at the Committee – let me explain a little about what is being said here, because in Republika Srpska three institutions, i.e. persons, therefore, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and in the Federation, it is clear 13 that this must be a larger number, with us all a little bit complicated, but not as many as there are. As far as the Directorate is concerned, they've replied to me to guarantee that their police, police, therefore, who monitors and has these rotations certainly behaves in accordance with the laws. We do not know exactly who can be under those rotations, we know that it is the Honorable Chairman of the Council, we know that these are three members of the Presidency, ministers, Parliament's leadership, as well as in all other states, and that it has added that there is also the Central Bank and those from the judiciary, that would be about the people who are under rotation. When I quote and start speaking with names, I can say at this point, here's the Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers or any of these ministers, I can't believe they're uncivilized and they're overrun by an ambulance and a fire department. So I kept asking around, who's driving around in that ambulance? Well, then, as they told you that, if politicians were threatening, I was told that there are often carpets in that ambulance, stuff from the airport, the mother-in-law, and so a series of people who are, but I don't believe it either, I won't believe it, either. Furthermore, to get out of Sarajevo for lack of water, and to wait long because it's a terrible crowd in Sarajevo, it's hard to get out of Sarajevo anywhere, and whoever has the chance to push the rotation will be pushed out of that crowd, so it doesn't matter that there's no fire. But I won't believe it either, and I think it's stories. I don't want to fall for the story that these people who are being held aren't civilized and crossing an unoccupied fire and emergency car, and that's what gets the answer of a colleague, that's what that means. So, the question that we asked on this commission at the time, here's Mr. Softić, was, but really, who's riding all over the Federation of BiH, who's putting in an unwarranted blinker, who's lighting it at lower levels, what's going on there? And then we got to that one, I asked Mr. Softić if that's what my neighbors say, the smaller the hoja the larger the turban, and then the smaller the function, the more they play those rotations, especially when they go to their local community where they're from, to their village, and then the villagers see them as important personalities because they have rotation. Now that's something you can't write here in the law, it's forbidden, I don't know, what we're going to write down is forbidden. So, there's the law, there's this thing that's really respected, I can't, if I vote for this, then I'm going to vote that all these ministers are uncivilized, that the members of the Presidency are uncivilized, that they treat the ambulance with impertinence. I don't believe it, I repeat, as I don't believe the girls drive from point A to point B in an ambulance, so I can't accept it. And secondly, there is, so I've been told from the Coordination, that they have their own Law that hasn't been published in the Official Journal, which they act on, and what we, citizens don't need to know, because, for example, Now to come, to announce the arrival of Mrs. Merkel or Trampa, it's a special story, we have nothing to talk about, and this is the capital city where many statesmen come to which they must then apply when they pass through the city completely another way, another law is true. So they have a law that hasn't been published in the Official Journal. I allow it to be so. We've got a terrorist phenomenon, we've got a whole bunch of robberies, and now that they're running with those cars, the rotation... I don't know who's in there anymore, I can't know, because we don't forget that all of our people driving under rotation are gonna have darkened glass, because of course public procurement is falling, tenders are falling because the glass isn't darked more than 50%, so we don't even know who's in there. It may also be Mrs. Merkel, if she will, what will be, how will we be, but so there is a law that prescribes it too. We can't in any way interfere with this Police Body Coordination Directorate, which I believe, because two sessions ago here we cried out to raise the salary to cops, etc., and I finally accepted that we should,... I don't believe in anything. I'm expressing, I really want to believe that everything, that everything is legal. I don't want to worry about what happens or doesn't happen. In particular, 14 I underline the civilised conduct of our ministers, the chairman, members of the Presidency. And, of course, I can't vote for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3687	I thank Mrs. Džambas. I propose to the motionary who responds to the word, I think to the proposing representative, to allow another delegate to participate in the debate at this point. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, but rather than being a replica or something, which he certainly has a right to, so let's give the first word to Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I didn't, honestly, until last night, have had any views on this law at all, and just about 5 o'clock we had a busy day yesterday, and here are colleagues Kadić and Mr. Podžić, and Martin and me, and some other colleagues, so late we stayed here in Parliament and were already these crowds that the distinguished colleague mentioned. And I was down, so maybe two kilometers from here, towards Herzegovina when it started, so to speak, according to the nicer part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the column is impenetrable, so it goes 5, 10 per hour, when suddenly the blondes on the left, actually on the right side of the road when it goes down, they make chaos mildly said, they don't respect traffic lights, they don't respect anything, they wave from those cars, they get chaos. So I stayed at that intersection for over 45 minutes, aside from me, we're all gone. I often remember a friend's statement, which he told me at the beginning of my political career, says – Mario, once he learns to drive under rotations, only under rotations can you get him out of there, and believe me, there is in that truth. And now, given, I don't know, that various countries and environments, here's a colleague who said how many protected persons we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina driving under these blinkers, that Dikrecija claims they're doing it all in accordance with the law, I, here, and here I was asking the question to the distinguished minister Mektić how that police officers don't treat me like law, but they still insult me because I don't answer them politically or have any other ideology, so that's a fairy tale one. That's what I saw last night, that's not according to the law, because there's no such law that there's no such thing as to demeaning citizens, that they have countries of the environment, and now for example, they all have foreign ministers as we do, and they're traveling, so maybe so little, absolutely irrelevant, but here they come to Bosnia and Herzegovina and now that lucky ambassador, for example, Rumunija, normally goes under escort, as they do, as our ministers go, when they go there, they make such chaos on the road, they go through red lights, through this, through what, and that coward who works for our 500 marks burns the house, can't get through a fire vehicle, or that poor pensioner with 300 marks in an emergency room and stays literally stuck, and he's literally stuck, stuck in a traffic light for 45 minutes. Regardless of whether we adopt this Act today or not, I will support it in principle, here's precisely because of this experience last night, in case we adopt this Act, I'm not sure that the Police Body Coordination Directorate will know that this Law was adopted and that they will know how to apply it, I don't believe they'll punish the vehicle under escort, not to mention that there would be no confusion, I didn't show any fingers last night when it passed, so no criminal charges, 15 please, so I don't believe they'll punish you. All those official cars are blacked out, the average Bosnia and Herzegovina citizen if he puts a three-point BMW, a cube, costing 1,500-2,000 marks of blacked-out foil, gets 30 marks of fines. And already, if the gentlemen of Dicretion are so tightly obeying the law, here I would really ask them to visit the institutions of all our ministries, and our, and the federal, and Republika Srpska, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the buildings of the Presidency, and the 40 agencies that we have at the state level alone, go through it, write down the finely blacked-out vehicles, charge fines according to the Transport Act, to fill the budget a little bit. Well, then maybe we won't have to use those who are making extra value, which is the businessmen, inventing new fiscal, parafiscal provisions for them to take away some more of the money they've earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3690	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. There are no others reported. Now I give the word to the promoter, hoping that according to his title as a doctor of legal science in the domain of philosophy of law, he will now explain here the difference between rights as a system of norms and these other normative systems, which is obviously the subject of today's, so what is the law here, and what is ethics?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3691	I thank the chairman. I am truly most invited, above all I welcome the distinguished delegates and distinguished members of the Council of Ministers headed by the Council of Ministers, but I was most offered, whether, since my colleague Džambas, I do not understand what you refer to. A few times you said in the last session, I spoke here at the last session when a negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission was considered, I think everyone present can confirm that I definitely didn't mention the Law on illegally acquired property, and I definitely didn't get into these other issues either. Since this isn't my home, I can't ask, but I'm really asking for a stenogram from last session of the House that concerns this part that I was saying, given whether certain claims have been made that I, on the other hand, claim are not standing. As for these other legal questions, you see, I'm going to, I'm going to stick to the facts. So, I guarantee you that if you have received a response from the Directorate or anyone that there is a law that has not been published in the Official Journal, then I guarantee you that either it is not true or this law is not valid, and that is because Article IV item 3 and) of the BiH Constitution is very clear and precise – the decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will not come into force before they are published. This is the Constitution of BiH, Article IV, item 3 and), decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which of course includes laws, will not come into force before they are published. So such a law, I guarantee you, does not exist. As for civilised behaviour, I really did not enter into whether any politician who uses the right to drive under rotations was civilized or uncivilised, I definitely never said that for this pay phone or public, I said that the provision of the law that currently exists in the Law on traffic safety on roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina is very precise to say that the advantage over ambulances and fire trucks has vehicles escorted. So it's a current legal norm, the law now gives priority to politicians. My bill changes that norm, gives priority to ambulances and fire trucks over vehicles under rotations, or over politicians' vehicles. That, I agree, should be understood, but when the law says otherwise, it cannot be understood, because the law currently gives politicians priority over the urgent and the firemen and politicians when they use that advantage do not violate the law, on the contrary, they behave in 16 in accordance with the Law and therefore my proposal is to make this illogical, and here, if you will, I will say it before and I will say it again, uncivilized provision, change it and bring it into line with the Western world. And just one more thing, given that security aspects are mentioned, when people whose visit is estimated, is whether, that the high risk, etc., then the competent services in Bosnia and Herzegovina are applying specific rules. In such cases very often they close roads, approach, etc., and in such cases this simply does not apply, because in such cases when a route is closed to pass by any statesman for whom our services have assessed that the road should be closed, then when such road is closed there is no ambulance on it that could even enter that route. So it's a completely separate question and these are the special rules that apply to special visits, but we're really talking about everyday life here. And when it comes to whether, in practice, I was looking at the Radio-Television of Republika Srpska's statement by an ambulance driver who told him that he regularly happens that when you call an ambulance under rotations to pass him over the vehicles under escort and that it endangers him, and his lives, and the safety of the patients he transports. I thank you once again and, here, please, I really ask the service to be delivered to me, so a stenogram from last session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3692	Thank you, Mr. Arnuat. Correction of the false allegations, dear colleague of Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3693	So, first of all, it's really a correction because I said at your session over, you had a past that wasn't finished, but at their finished session because it's a direct broadcast on television, so I watched it, so at your session that you had as a House of Representatives, not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3694	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3695	A delegate in the House of Peoples has two of us, and I've been talking and then I know it. So I didn't say that, I didn't say that. So take this stenogram of what I said, and what, you said at your session, you don't need a stenogram from our session. Secondly, you said, and I appreciate you otherwise, you said, if someone comes, the road will close. So, we move on, what do we do when a building on a closed road gets a heart attack, then what do we do? I can't even get an ambulance. So we can't really go into everything, that's what we're going to do, we're going to close the road, we're going to wet the shafts, it's all worked out, now it's going to take as long as it takes, and what happens when someone gets hurt? Nothing. So we can't put everything in the law, we really can't. As far as coordination is concerned, it wasn't just me, so we had our Finance Committee and when I asked this to clarify, he said, it might not be the law, it might be a sublegal act, but they have their own, but they have to use it depending on who's coming and who's 17 of them accompanying, who's being escorted. But when you want to say something populist, then you say politicians, I don't know what politicians mean. So we're talking about functions, in this country there are functions and people who behave these certain functions, and no, politics is a broad term, it can be the president of some basic branch, it's not that. So, it's said at that session that they have, and my colleagues have the same replica, so I believe the co-ordination of police bodies, if I don't believe it, so where am I, what I, the man says fine, they say, are strictly professional and they act according to the laws, and of course they don't think of crossing the ambulance and everything else. So this is where we got into the populism, and as of today, I've said since last session, so I'm not voting for any law that's populist. I'm looking for reform laws that are settled neatly at their sessions, they're coming down neatly, there's no excise, there's no road construction, there's nothing, there's no budget collapse, etc., so no important law can pass at the House of Representatives, and it's passing, here's what we're talking about today. It's really dark for us to have a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3696	Thank you. The word has a distinguished delegate, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3697	Just a few notes. I think we're really dealing with a lot, so let's not use the hard word, the things that can be important and aren't. If nothing else, while I'm watching this proposal, and I don't mind at least having an emergency or an emergency, but the key issue here is the implementation of the Traffic Safety Act. Who knows at all is that the Law has made it very clear who can have rotational lights, when they can be used and who is obliged to exclude such vehicles from traffic. Does anyone in this Bosnia and Herzegovina do that? Well, this is a law unique in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's neither entity nor cantonal, etc., why isn't someone implementing it? That's what we're all witnessing on the street to see that question. If you want to talk about it, does anyone think it's the same police and the police? So is someone saying that it's the same prison police and police and that they have equal treatment in traffic? Sorry, guys, then we're really totally, totally people who don't know what's going on in this country, and we put everything in one rank, and now we're getting out of this, uh, ambulance, just because of what our colleagues and colleagues were talking about. I think it's time for two things, first of all if I can suggest, and it seems to me that I have the right to, that the time has come to do a comprehensive analysis by the Police Body Coordination Directorate, to make one comprehensive information about who is currently entitled to this blue-white rotation, call whatever you want, light and the Council of Ministers' instructions. And let the Council of Ministers assess whether the atmosphere still needs to have 5, 50 or 55 persons protected, the same or existing, or a higher or smaller level of protection, I wouldn't want to get into it from my point of view because there are people who know the job. And I think it would be very correct for this House to be familiar with it and say -- here, instead of the 30 so far at the level, I'm saying what the Council of Ministers is, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina so much and so much in the future, there's no need left. Let's not slave what was needed 10 years ago in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think that today Bosnia and Herzegovina, as much as we speak of it, is not in the same safe state as it was then, nor is it about the threat of functions that some people perform in this country, not to say this ugly expression for people who perform it, is it, or is it something else. And I think, too, that a comprehensive analysis should be made, and perhaps it can be done by the Ministry of Communications, ours, in agreement with the Energy, Cantonal, Resort Ministries 18, to get one piece of information about the implementation of these provisions of the Law so we can really get to know each other about that and after that to evaluate what it is. Otherwise, if we're out of the law every time we pull a piece at a time, we're not going to solve this systemically. It's a huge question of this law, and I think there's a lot of shortcomings in it that would be time, to make a new one, but let's not fool ourselves that people have proposed from this Ministry to us, uh, some have made proposals about the law, so we've often been against and refused that law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3698	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable delegates, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. I was really hoping that Mr. Arnaut would give a slightly more inspiring reason to open this topic, because this topic is actually a possible initiation of much more serious topics. And I am convinced that he is playing with this topic when he is doing all this work in the last three years in the Parliamentary Assembly. He's doing a lot of good because he's doing it on the margins, he doesn't touch the essentials, and he leaves the door open for populism that's suitable for policy conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's something worth respecting an intelligent man who's found his theme and how to distribute it into this legislative body. These things we've been talking about, I mean, first of all, it's not about any of Parliament's powers, whether the police are passing through, what experience they are, etc. At some seminar of the Department of Traffic and Accompaniment at the Police Body Coordination Directorate, it is likely until the rank of senior inspector. ...that it came to some rulebook like that they talked about, so they did something, and there's no problem, like they're not. But the issue affects the centre itself, the essence of political relations and the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why? Because it opens up here as a matter of legal philosophy. What's real, what's law? So if the right set of norms of legal nature stemming from the law by rules and justice, and I'm not counting on it, if ethics is a set of some moral norms that shouldn't be in conflict here, then why are we even talking about it today? We are talking about because the political platforms in this country have fallen to deal with far more serious issues, both Evropa, and reforms, and military relations, and the country's internal arrangements, and the fight against crime and corruption, the construction of the rule of law. And then this political offer that exists through this law acts as an attractive, and essentially represents the makeup of a dead man. What's going to change in someone's life what's going to be in the law like this? I'm gonna vote for this because I'm part of something that no one can explain what's going on. And it's easier for me to vote for this than to explain the arguments why I didn't vote, and nothing's going to change. So we find ourselves in a situation where the most attractive political offer is to make up a dead political scene and a dead political offer that offers nothing. I'm talking about all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in entities, and in cantons, and in municipalities, and cities, and, after all, at the level of the government that we're carrying out here. That's why today's the topic. But here, if we're aware of that, I can see from your expressions that this is a discussion that has some effect on the state of consciousness here, of course, this is going to go through what Mr. Arnaut has proposed, so let's, as long as we still have this year at our disposal, and 19 is equally connected to the government and the opposition, that at least here where there are certain competencies, such as those at our disposal, that we can, relatively quickly, practically, with full agreement on issues like Europe and similar things, and to do something. There are no polls to be conducted, no petitions should be conducted, no referendums should be conducted, neither should I know what kind of political discussions, all of them translated, everything has been said, and we all know that we want to join the European Union. In such an environment, such a law, as proposed by Mr. Arnaut, may be a matter of good intentions, even if it is not adopted in such an environment, it will not be too scary because there are more important things. But let's be aware of the criticism of this proposal, and have nothing bigger on the table, so that and that we also have... a session today at the House of Nations means still being incorrect to Mr Arnaut, who at least in a domain where he intelligently assessed where an alternative political offer can be found, even if that was what I said he was, without the intention to insult, it's not an insult, it's a description, a description of the situation, yet it's a creative move. And I congratulate you, Mr. Arnaut, you have managed to interest the public even though you have a minister who could have suggested the same thing in this Law that Mrs. Džambas spoke of. Perhaps you've agreed to keep it for this offer, this, which is a bit of a political nature, if you're not okay, you remembered later or you didn't remember, he could have suggested it, too, so let's give more meaning to the Council of Ministers behind whom the Club of Representatives of the Alliance for a Better Future stands, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3700	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3701	Well, if it doesn't, then we're back on that subject I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3702	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3703	Thank you. Here, I really didn't mean to answer until the Honorable President, Mr. Tadić, answered and opened some things really, I mean, extraordinaryly, here's to say right away in terms of the importance of the topic we are dealing with and what we should do, and especially this call to both position and opposition take advantage of this year for a more quality work. Is that understood? So first, I was wondering if you were the position or the opposition as the chairman of this House. And secondly, so, what I've actually reported for is, therefore, the falling of those masks, definitely, uh, has to start fast and it's going to happen because what's going on here. It is here that people who represent the parliamentary majority lead the media and political wars both in the public and in this Parliament, which speaks of the credibility of the position. That's why I called. So if you are a position then you have responsibility for the parliamentary majority and for all that on behalf of the position should come to this Parliament. There is obviously no way this country, its peoples and its citizens deserve it. We need to make that clear, there isn't, there isn't. And then everyone uses that cloudy water to collect political points for themselves, and we see where we are. Well, gentlemen, if you're in a position to take responsibility... don't transfer it to the opposition. 20 Well, here, and one of my little replicas to the esteemed representative and promoter, Mr Arnaut, who in public explained this proposal mostly used to oppose this proposal. So, HDZ as a Croatian Democratic Community is a name that has two parliamentary parties on its behalf and I would ask you to be very specific about which representatives and which parties. There is a HDZ of BiH and HDZ 1990 that is in opposition and that can work and act as well as it can. I don't want to talk about any parliamentary party, but I think as a responsible representative you should know that there are parties in position and opposition, and HDZ 1990 is in opposition and has not opposed... but then you should have precisely said who opposes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3704	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3705	You didn't say, you said HDZ.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3706	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3707	So HDZ, which HDZ, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3708	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3709	Well, you didn't say, but you didn't say HDZ BiH either. So, let me also tell you HDZ 1990 is, in the shortest time of history, accepted into the membership of the European People's Party, which your party is also trying in significant time, which I support and what I signed... but you didn't deserve it. So there are MPs at all parliamentary levels both entities and we are in opposition. So this is where it came today to take ministerial positions and positions in public resources and then to continue the war as... a position, we're the opposition, so I'm not telling you these examples now. And that game here goes, not just in this cycle, but in the last one. So, take responsibility, we will, here, support and excise, even though we are the opposition, take responsibility for this country to take one step, to make roads, to make infrastructure, to make these things, here's what Mr... did, to open up a serious debate, not to play here anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3710	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Correction of the wrong quote, Mrs. Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3711	...possibly, I don't know what I'm going to press from these three I have. But Mr. Raguž says that we have, a fellow representative, who is valued, has opportunities as a government, right, that on television, 21 or public means of communication can promote that policy, but Mr. Arnaut, as far as I can see, has started to appear on TV since the moment the opposition becomes in the House of Representatives. We're from e.g. Here from HDZ BiH, we don't have a chance to meet on that TV, and we belong to most of us. Which is most of the right to tell you I don't even know anymore, you don't know anything at the House of Representatives, so we don't have that possibility, Mr. Raguž. You belong as HDZ 1990, as you just said to the opposition, and I don't know where you saw us that we could promote something. So I don't even have a chance to object, so I took advantage of today's session, because this is a direct transmission, so that's how it is. But I really mind those quotes. And from this moment on, I'm also saying I wouldn't want her to leave here, quote someone and say that I'm against, I will, I'm not against anything because I don't want to believe coordination for the police bodies, not to trust my police force, not to believe it, I'm nothing... Therefore, the reason why I will not vote for has nothing to do with the ambulance, but with that, the story that has arisen and the populism that has arisen. I... I said since last session, I'm not voting for any law that smells like pulsism at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3712	Thank you, Mrs. Džamabs. There are no others reported. Now we're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Let's get this procedure started. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present – 8 were for, 3 were against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 3 against, there are no abstentions, from Republika Srpska 3 for. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will read the number for a stenogram since it was two laws, 02-02-1-687/17, since 28.07.2017, adopted in the first reading. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-1378/17 since 28.07.2017 Lastly, on the 32nd session, the House of Peoples did not adopt a negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People's House on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Constitutional Commission of the People's House was tasked with drawing up a new opinion in accordance with Rule 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You have received a new opinion from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission found that the draft law amending the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac. 22 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3715	Well, speaking of populism, if it's something populism, I think that's exactly the law. In my opinion, politics should deal with... some positive environment for both work and development, you should listen to the voice of the people. And for example, there was a market in Tomislavgrad on Monday, Tuesday in Posuje, in neighbouring Imotski, for example on Wednesday, and now imagine, there are a lot of journalists here, that they pass where the people are coming and make a survey – are you in favour of employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina having... 20 days. I assure you that the answers you might hear there is not a single medium that could announce that it does not hurt its listeners, even the Federal Television that has pornographic films... So those answers would be too.../very hard to understand/... What's this about? It's just that a businessman, a man, means, who has his own company, has a bunch of these certain duties, this one, that one, and for example, there are 10 employees and all those 10 have a salary of 1,000 marks. To pay that worker 1,000 marks, occasively in a pair of marks, he must pay 1,750 marks. So 750 marks go to the Bosnia and Herzegovina agencies, to us in parliaments, to this country, to that state, to education, to education, to the MUP, to this, to that. We also had a thematic session here, right here in this hall, about the state of agriculture, we made some conclusions, we forwarded them to the Council of Ministers, and nothing was done about it. So our raspberries producers are on their knees, producers and mercy growers are on their knees, live cattle growers in Bosnia and Herzegovina thanks to the enormous effort on their knees. According to information I have imports, frozen beef from Poland is repacking and exporting to Turkey, which will further harm Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, by the way, I'd like to ask you to send an administrative inspection into those facilities, so that means it's being examined. Now let's not say what import it is, what our citizens eat if it is known that we only have two customs coolers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That flesh physically can't be... And then we get a law that, employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, needs to increase the annual vacation from 18 to 20 days. People to be honest to the end, employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina except when such sessions of parliaments or some important events of eight hours are actively working for two hours. If you don't believe me, ask those waiters downstairs, people break down walking. This law I consider pure pulsism, and I don't mind, let them on vacation for three months, believe me that Bosnia and Herzegovina wouldn't suffer, because I wouldn't notice that they're not there, but this is pure pulsism, and I think that whoever proposes such a law does exactly what is popularly said to be, at the incarceration of party personnel and closer to relatives, so 23 have a little more, because it's hard to get to Neum today, especially if it has to go through Svilaj, there's a respected minister of traffic, so two cars in places can't be exchanged, and where to go to Antalya or Spain for a vacation. And very few people working in the real sector, who bring themselves and this country added value, which fills the budget, can afford to go to sea and even a one-day trip unlike those employed in institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are some reasons why I'll be saying it. against both this law and all the laws that come before me which in the future improve the status of those who live on the coat of arms of those who work. So, we, when I say I mean the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers, all levels of government, brought the country almost to its knees, threw it on its knees. For what? On one of the real sector employees, we have almost one employee in the budget administration and almost one pensioner. That, there's no country that can do it... there isn't. And finally, it's been up to date lately as people leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, so if there's a proposal, let me explain how many people will stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina because they will be employed in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for an annual vacation instead of 18 20 days. I mean, that would probably be a small step for humanity but a big, definitely big one for these employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3716	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Before I gave my word to the esteemed Mrs. Džambas, given the direction of the discussion that had gone, I looked to see if the motioner was reporting possibly for participation in the debate, then the professional service found that the promoter was not here, which was a little bit different. Accordingly, I have an obligation, in accordance with Rule 64(3) of the Rules of Procedure, to respect the provision, or possible respect for it, and it literally stands in it, unless the House decides otherwise, in the event of the absence of the motion of an act. As a previous question of continuing the debate, I have to ask you, so do you want to continue the debate and work on this point, because unless you decide, I have to stop it. I call on the technical service to give us a statement. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, if I have to explain, the question is, are you willing to keep working, given that there's no proposing, is that you're up for it. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3721	No microphone 25 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3722	Thank you. Mrs. Zovko, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3723	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3724	Thank you. Mr. Nović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3725	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3726	You said, as far as I can tell, Darko Babalj. Your microphone's not on again. Thank you. You've heard the proposal for a name for the members of this committee. I call upon you to plead. Thank you. Of the 11 delegates present – 10 were for, 1 was against, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against, there are no abstentions. Given that there is a general and entity majority I find that we have appointed as members of the Joint Commission for the Consensus of the text of the Law of the House of Nations: Safet Softić, Ljilja Zovko and Dark Babalj. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17 of 12.05.2017 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted this Report. At the 52nd session, the House of Representatives adopted a Report with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I give my word to a representative of the Joint Committee on Human Rights at a session of the House of Peoples. Who's been delegated? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3730	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-11-08-0.u3731	Oh, I'm sorry about the laps, so it's the Defense and Security Commission. You're right. So, like in the report. I'll give the word to the bearer if he's present. Would you like a word? You don't want to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. We're moving on to a plea. Thank you. Out of the 11 delegates present, there were 3 delegates, 3 delegates, 5 delegates were detained. From the Federation of BiH – 3 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – none by, 2 against, 1 abstention. There is no general majority, so I realize that we have not adopted a Decision adopting the Programme for the Development of the System of Protection and Rescue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies. 27 We move to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Appeals of Citizens as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure – applicant: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-1893/17 of 25.10.2017 You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure. At the proposal of the College of the People's House for a member of the Interim Joint Commission from the House of People, Barša Čolak, Ognjen Tadić and Safet Softić were proposed. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. Out of the 11 delegates present, 10 were for, against no one, held 1 delegate. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, against, no one, abstentioned anyone, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, versus none, 1 abstention. There is a general majority, there is also an entity majority, so I agree that we have adopted the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of the Independent Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Appeals as independent bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure in which we have appointed the House of Peoples: Barš Čolak, Ognjen Tadić and Safet Softić. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of one member of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security of the Serbian People, applicant: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-2474/17 of 25. Ten. 2017
