ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21392	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 7th emergency session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. I welcome all present, I welcome the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, members of the Council of Ministers and all guests. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadko's cabinet has been notified that the minister is unable to attend today's session due to earlier commitments. The absence was justified by MPs Momčilo Novaković, Mirsad Mešić and Diana Zelenika. According to the information provided by the Service of the session, 29 representatives are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. The 7th emergency session of the House of Representatives was convened in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure, with four points of the agenda as indicated in the invitation. So, as a rule on the agenda of these sessions, there is no debate and I ask you to agree that today's 7th session, the emergency session of the House of Representatives has the following: Agenda 1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-863/17, of 29.03.2017; 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-862/17, of 29.03.2017; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-861/17, of 29.03.2017; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for an Emergency Procedure Proposal of Deposit in the Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Zakon number: 01,02-02-1-860/17, of 29.03.2017. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. 2 We move to the first point, Ad. 1. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-863/17, of 29.03.2017. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 31.03.2017. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21394	First, I'd like to welcome my colleagues from SNSD. In this room it wasn't the same with them and without them, the debates were much shorter and there weren't many conflicts, but at the vote we had little problems without you, which I believe will be different today. Since I see a laugh on the face and a representative of the international institutions that are following this here, it means that this session could be quick and that laws could be passed. I still want to say a few words about the procedure itself and what followed the preparation of this session. A European diplomat said yesterday -- who is against excises is against the European Union and the Reform Agenda. Except for the country's ambassador who's just coming out of this European Union, I don't remember where the parties signed the 15-feng fuel collection without any follow-up measures. He says who's against excises is against the European Union. I don't know where they learned this labeling, actually I know, they learned from us. And instead of us Europeanizing, they're balconying and sending us messages like this. Millions give to strengthen the capacity of institutions and then lead us by lunches to convince us that we should vote one way or the other. So, if I understand correctly, we all, apart from the parliamentary majority, serve to sign the Agenda, and that then everything you're going through under that Agenda, you convince us that it's also the holder of our signature.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21395	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21396	Well, now I'm gonna get, uh, to why he can't go into emergency procedure, but let a colleague of Lovrinović...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21397	Don't just have a dialogue with each other, discuss... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21398	So, two years, two years, I repeat, everyone needs to be involved in European processes. Two and a half years at no serious meeting on any serious subject, we as an opposition are not invited, and together we are all in this story about the European Union. Where is the public in this whole story, where are NGOs, where is the opposition? I've been repeating the same story for two and a half years, and it repeats itself, here, and on this matter that we're asked to consider in an emergency procedure. There is a mechanism of coordination, we find out that it was adopted in the Official Journal, the ministries are kicked out of that same coordination mechanism, and all the information we as advocates get from people from institutions off the record. Here, as a member of the European Integration Commission, I have no information at all what happened at the last meetings and what was agreed. And eventually someone tells me if I don't vote for fuel collection that I'm against the European Union. In this way, without any agreement, conversation, participation, arguments, you can write me down immediately in those notebooks of yours that I am against the European Union. You can't treat people like that. Yesterday, from the ambassadors to the embassy's employees, let the fellow risers tell them who called them all to lobby for the adoption of this law. And you know what the tragedy is, which is the biggest, which no one from the Council of Ministers has called to say – Saša you have half an hour to explain to you the law that we have proposed, which is why it's important to us, what we're going to do with these excises, whether or not we have countermeasures in relation to the collection that awaits us, why can't or can't a blue diesel. Our strangers call to lobby us, the Council of Ministers nothing. Here, let them tell their colleagues yesterday what's been going on all day. Among other things, I don't think this should go into emergency procedures. Parliament is trying to make a flow boiler. Someone writes the law, the Council of Ministers passes it, we need to raise our hand, without any conversation, that's understood. However, even if I wanted to vote, I was baffled by Mr. Dodik, frankly, the man went out to the media and he says -- we don't need money from the IMF, we're stable, we have stable sources of funding, we don't need it, and then Mr. Novalić comes out and says, "Stablely everything, the economy of flowers, and foreigners call," he says -- you need money. Now I don't know who to trust, domestics who say everything's fine, we have money or strangers who say you have to support this law. Finally, once again, this approach that only the government and perhaps their narrow and wider family are going to the European Union, and we are all excluded from that process even on an informative level, that we do not know what is going on, and here we are when we have to vote, so such a process cannot. And all those who called yesterday called for nothing called. And if we need to talk about the arguments where this money is going to go, the road construction, why so far nothing's done in two and a half years, so only when it collects fuel will the road build start, yes, and for that we have the right arguments. So once again, I think that this approach doesn't deserve an emergency procedure and that these are topics that need to be discussed in a completely different way, that these are usually processes that should involve everything and lead them in an open and transparent way, and not this as they are now doing. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21399	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21400	I thank the chairman. I think it's clear to everyone, uh, the Rules of Procedure very clearly that an emergency procedure is under discussion first. Mr. Magazinović, except that he mentioned the term of emergency procedure several times in his presentation, this is ultimately, the whole exhibition, including the fact that it was prepared on paper, concerned the very essence of this Law. I'd like to ask you, this debate will develop, if we really have an emergency procedure debate, so whether the conditions for emergency procedures are met. The Rules of Procedure are extremely clear on this matter, either that it is a high degree of urgency law or that it is a proposal for a law that is so formulated that it can be adopted in a single reading. We at the 4 SBB Club believe that both requirements are met, and without a dilemma it is clear that this is a high-level emergency law. I'll remind you that we had this, we had the proposal in the ER, we had an emergency procedure proposal back in August of the year. Many processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina stand, so it is undeniable that it is the law, the proposal for a high degree of urgency law. We then had some announcements that this should be postponed for after the election, so those who said they would vote for it, and some of the authorities, that they would vote for it after the election, changed their minds. In any case, this has been in the process too long and the emergency procedures have been met. I ask you that although you did not interrupt Mr Magazinović, in the future you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure if it is brought here, that is to say, a debate, since Mr Magazinović has already taken it, if the debate develops on the essence of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21401	Thank you. It's an old question that we have here, how to decide the debate on the procedure from the debate on the substance and vice versa. I can only call you, you know it well, you're experienced people, you understand the Rules of Procedure, discuss the procedure at the moment. Well, that's all I can do, to ask you to do it like that. Now the word has a respected representative of Senad Šepić, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21402	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, you see, it's impossible to separate in this brief statement, not say the basic reason why someone wants or doesn't want an emergency procedure without, in a way, trying to explain it, trying to explain it. So, I don't agree at all with my colleague Arnaut that this is so urgent and that it's necessary to do this this way, and in this period, and at this moment. For a year we've been talking about this, and a year we've had time to agree, to make sure, to find the best argument, to find the best solution for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, of course, here we are, getting into this kind of, what's called, teat, that last term itself, and then we're talking about how the processes are, how it's necessary to do this, and this is exactly how we were delivered, basically take it or leave it. So I understand well how important the European path is and how important reforms are, and if anyone is trying in this country to do this... on the agenda, so it belongs to that group of MPs and to that group of politicians who act in this way and who act in this way. I said a year ago there was talk about these things, the last time we did it in October. In October, when we discussed, therefore, I prayed, I had several basic political framework decisions, framework conclusions that I proposed which should be a guarantee that what we would adopt, when it comes to increasing these excise duties, would be in the best and most transparent and fairest way... What really hurts me as a man, which is why I'm asking today to consider this in a regular procedure, is that really none of the people who run this country today have, therefore, found it appropriate to turn around, to talk, to give some kind of answer, to give some kind of false promise, although, therefore, we all in this country know about how we treat each other. When we talk about how much guarantee it is that today if we adopt this Excise Act in this way, and I am in favour of adopting it with a package of measures that will be guaranteed, which 5 will today establish and which will guarantee that what we adopt will actually happen. So you see through the Reform Agenda analysis that 95% of the things that have been taken over, which are promised by the letter of intent, that 95% of the deadlines have been broken, 95% of the promises have been broken by deadlines. The same will happen to us if in this way... we make new accusations to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we don't make mechanisms to force the government and make the institutions do the same thing to us with this, we'll put people in charge, and then these funds will be spent the way they are, unfortunately, spent most of it, here and so far. So that's why I'm asking you to consider this in a regular procedure... we open up the possibility that, with this set of conclusions, part of the last time we talked about this in October, that a set of conclusions that is certainly good for the government will help the government, governments and the Council of Ministers to be more effective in implementing their reforms, so it will allow us who should, here, today to vote, to have that kind of responsibility for the people who chose us. And that, in fact, these new imposes, the new duty and that new one, as I would say, the burden on the back of citizens that it is essentially something that people will ultimately benefit from. So that set of conclusions, to remind you briefly, refers to the principle in which Parliament will decide on spending, this, the funds of that part of 5 fening, because these 10 fenings are already calculated, we know how they are spent, it's about highways. So that's not what governments should do, that's what they need, that program, the spending program of those 5 fenings should be made by parliaments, that's the first thing. I don't think it should be controversial for someone, so whoever wants us to lead the country, to make these reforms. The second part is that they primarily, these 5 fenings, are spent primarily in those regions and in those regions where the 5c highway does not go through, the highway in general. So don't expect that in regions where there's no physical pathway that these people need to bear the burden of collecting excises, and that no other, say, balance, any other chance that they feel some sort of, what's called, uh, blessing from it all, that we expect these people to do it without having any, on the other hand, that they don't have any support. Thirdly, the social programme, so this isn't going to be us sitting here and a good part of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this isn't going to hit us, 15, as it's called, fencing per liter of fuel, so, but you have those who barely make up with these current costs, because this will inevitably lead to the collection of the general standard of living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the fourth is the ratio to agriculture. I come from a region where 60% of people, so 60% of agriculture, 60% of the milk produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina comes from the area I come from, three years late with incentives. For three years, we haven't been able to adopt the Encouragement Act, so let's say -- if we have Parliamentarians, and the government, and civil servants, we who run the country if we can secure our salary from 1 to 5, then we have to commit to providing the farmer with an incentive from 1 to 5. If that's not the measure, when we owe people that we can't provide it to people, then I'm not ready to vote for this kind of approach, vote for one of these laws. But please don't force people who want a European path, and who want reforms, and who want this country to go, and who simply don't trust a government that has proved largely incompetent, not, as I would say, incompetent to run such serious processes. I will then speak of the numbers, I will speak of the numbers, I will speak specifically of the deadlines which are what we have taken over, what is what we have promised as power, which we have given the deadlines, and what we have promised from all that we have promised so far. If there aren't any of these mechanisms I'm talking about, I'm really afraid the same case will be with these funds. We're going to raise these loans, or we're going to get those new funds, but it's not going to be spent the way we're saying it today. There will be excuses - the leaders could not agree, this one argues with that one, the other argues, so the same matrix will continue, the same form we now have. If there's no guarantee of this kind, then I'm afraid we've done some damage. If on the other hand we want to make six right moves, what it says in the documents, then I don't see any reason why anyone should be afraid of regular procedures and one set of conclusions like this, which I now mentioned in this first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21403	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21404	Mr. Chairman, I welcome you as well as the College of Parliament, as well as everyone present in this room in an unusually large number. Obviously, therefore, it is an extremely important question that I have the impression of, and those present on the left or right are perhaps giving a little more attention than we should be sitting here alone in parliamentary benches doing. I'd just like to cite a few facts. Since August of last year, we have been trying to discuss the Excise Law, and this is a failure to put forward such proposals as is an obstacle to the discussion of the proposed Law. We, you heard, as the club we will support an emergency procedure to discuss this for several reasons. Firstly, I would like to point out to all of us that Bosnia and Herzegovina is excluded, under quotes, from all currents, from all European corridors, from the infrastructure of traffic, energy, that we do not have a defined network of infrastructure facilities through Bosnia and Herzegovina for many reasons, and one of these reasons is that at the same time when we are discussing such proposals and such obstacles that these things cannot be discussed. It is, it is simply incomprehensible that the perception of the public is that we are incompetent, that we do not want to work and that we do not take advantage of the opportunities we are given. Well, it is well known that for these infrastructure projects, for that industry that does these infrastructure projects, over 50 different business activities are linked. So it's the possibility of a dizziness to launch economic activities. Of course, I'm neither naive nor blind, nor deaf to all the problems that arise and are present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but neither am I, I want to say that we have a commitment to what we're talking about right now, but at the same time to put all these problems on the table and about these problems Well, let's discuss it, too. [[Employee is warned on time]] I think that should be our priority. I, therefore, invite all of us to understand the seriousness of the situation and that, I was not at any lunch, I don't know who was, after all, it doesn't matter who was at those lunches, I don't care, but I know that this is the necessity and that Bosnia and Herzegovina and the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of all the difficulties we're going to have, which must be managed in some way, it must be found a way to do so, it simply needs this infrastructure and these infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21405	Thank you. Please...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21406	... but what Mr. Arnaut said... [[no microphone turned on]] 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21407	Yeah, yeah. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations. Please stick to the time so I won't be in a position to warn you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21408	Mr. Chairman. So, if I could understand correctly, a man could understand from this presentation by his colleagues, Đonlagić, that I am one of the people who, like me, makes some impossible demands. We are Parliamentarians here, this is the first time, so for the first time, we need to make a decision about something that has been negotiated, made, promised, so we are those people who take responsibility for what we have, so we are directly elected by the people. And if we're looking today for those five fenings, and we're going to make a decision to hire these people to collect their lives, that we're just looking to have that kind of control. When we say - people include us when these decisions are made, include us in that we represent the people, so that we can identify them in this spending program. If that is what it's called, Đonlagić's impossible request then I don't know, I mean, what we're doing in this Parliamentary Assembly. That 5% of the funds, if we give 10 fenings for highways through the regions they're going through, we know physically where they're going, and 5%, five of those fenings are primarily in Livno, in the Krajina where I come from, and in Tuzlo, where you're coming fromĐonlagić we primarily ask that those funds be spent in those environments and spent on projects in those environments that don't go through highways, so I don't know, if it's a problem to discuss in Parliament and if it's a problem for a government that says it wants to move forward, then I don't understand that government and I can't be part of that kind of thinking. Not to mention the need for this social program that we had to do when we were thinking about raising 15 fenings and getting our lives together, we had to think about what it's called, categories that can't get there right now, you can imagine what it's going to be like when we pick up that part tomorrow. And don't tell me there aren't any brains, ideas and initiatives to do that if you want to. If the government thinks that this is the way to run the process without having anything to do with us so that it can bring us this way or leave us this way, then unfortunately it gets a discussion and a debate of this kind as unfortunately we have to lead today.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21409	Thank you very much. So I'm warning you again that this is a procedure debate. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here we are in a situation where Parliament or the House of Representatives should not exist at all, or we should introduce a practice that has already been introduced by governments on entities, I don't know if it's the Council of Ministers, to hold phone sessions. So, you read to us and we say yes or against, because we are not allowed to simply discuss in Parliament a matter that is on the agenda. I have been on the Party of Democratic Action list, but the voters are citizens of this state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I, too, first of all, account for them and then to the political party from which I come. And that's how I've always acted, and that's how I'm going to behave in the next period. And my rebellion at this point, and I pointed it out six months ago, is because we can't discuss 8 of the matter, which is why the emergency procedure, let's see what we can actually fix. Why? Because here's the last time I said it, it's unserious of the Council of Ministers to accept one of these credit arrangements without it coming here in parliamentary procedure to talk about it. Well, they're not the smartest, nor are we the smartest, but if we all sit down together and talk maybe we can find a solution. I said it last time – the loan is one time, it will last today, so for the next five years, I'm telling the number, the excise remains a permanent category. Here's a detail we could talk about that you gave us to talk about, but you won't let us. I've been lobbyed these days, too. Maybe a year ago it was interesting to be part of the European Union, bogami now, as the Englez leave the European Union, I'm asking if that's interesting.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21411	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21412	Well, there's no problem about it, Mr. Šepić, I am, I am for the European way, and it's not a dispute, but if there's no democracy in Europe, like it's not here, that we can't talk, then I'm not in any way. In my political party there is no democracy and not that, here in parliamentary benches, I can't sit here and say in what way I want these things, uh, adopted, to say my proposal, to exchange opinions with my colleagues, with the Council of Ministers, and to find a solution that will be good for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not take or leave. So, on that principle, take it or leave it, I don't work in the family, in the environment, here and nowhere. I want my word heard, I want to talk, I want to exchange opinions and I want someone to convince me, after all, that I'm wrong. There's a couple of very bad things here. We have signed, signed the Biofuels Programme at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we need to make certain arrangements that will give biofuels an opportunity when it comes to the energy sector, we introduce excise duties. For what? Because the inspection doesn't do its job. We're going to solve the problem of biofuels smuggling and biotech at gas stations in a way that we're going to increase excise duties, so that's stupid to me. Whoever wrote it didn't find an adequate explanation, etc. Here's a couple of arguments, which is why we need to sit here for the next four, five hours and talk about how to fix this legal solution. I'm not voting for an emergency procedure and I'm asking the law to go into regular procedure, to discuss and find a solution that, uh, will be acceptable to all of us here, especially me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21413	Thank you. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21414	I must express my gratitude, colleagues and colleagues, that the SNSD is here and that we have complete unity, and that the SNSD has no obstacle when the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is to be in charge of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is what I am, at this moment, happy that this Parliament is working in full and complete capacity. I am for the European road, I am for the highways, I am one of, I would say, the average junior MPs in this House, but it seems to me that, and if Bog gave you health, I would not be driving this highway if we were to do this dynamic as we do today. One part of the discussion was taken from me by my colleague Sokolović when he said that we should vote on the phone or, possibly, because they have these smart messages, we have to amend the Rules of Procedure so that this Parliament can also vote on the messages, because the only thing we do not adopt in the emergency procedure is these international agreements, and they cannot change under the law. We're adopting the budget in an emergency procedure, we're adopting all the commitments of those that today in the emergency procedure, I'm not against us passing this law today, but we should have had an adjustment of at least the ministers of those who make roads. Although I would need a new resort, since I represent a good part of these people who have returned to Republika Srpska, they live mostly in the area where the macadams are, and we don't have a minister of macadamia. I call on you that if we are on the European path to being both European Parliament and to make decisions in line with the democratic standards that countries today have in the European Union, which is that this Parliament can make the decisions it makes. If this Parliament can't make the decisions it makes, then we're still a country, as these analysts call it, a partytocrat, which is shown every day. First, the party presidents sat down, wrote everything that needs to be written, and we just have to come and raise our hands and tell those who today and those who vote for us, we had to because they ordered us. So, I repeat, 90% of those I represent are farming and are coming to the cities of the Macadam Roads. So I'm not against roads or roads, but I am willing to participate in the way in creating the pathways that are being made. So why the reason for the quick procedure if we had six months ago when this law didn't pass here, why didn't we start a month ago? So that's a key question -- which we didn't start a month ago, so we could open discussions, we could have adopted this law without a problem in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21415	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko, I apologize, dear representative Damir Arnaut, for correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21416	I thank the chairman. I just want to remind you, since the debate has now gone that way, that we are setting this up as if for the first time today we are discussing this set of laws by emergency procedure without commission procedure, etc. Now, even though I learned in this House that the memory of some of my colleagues is short, I didn't know it was this short. So, we've been discussing this set of laws since August of last year, we first tried the emergency procedure, so the emergency procedure didn't get the necessary majority in August, and then the House's decision went into the commission phase and passed the commission phase, and Col. Sokolović on the committee was against and any statement and the Council of Ministers and here's the Honorable Minister Bevanda came out for this speaker to answer all the questions that MPs had asked at the time. ...there's an identical set of laws here now, so you're now insinuating that this is going back to the commission procedure and then you insist on form, not essentially, because this is all essentially past, past the commission phase, past the Dom reading, and finally it fell because it didn't require an ethnic majority, because part of the ruling coalition didn't support it. And to remind the commission phase was held after the election, and we had certain promises that after the election it would be changed and did not happen. Therefore, I absolutely cannot accept what Mr. Sokolović is saying, nor what Mr. Ahmetović was saying, because then you are trying to convince me that this has not passed the commission phase. I don't know if you were at the meetings at the time, but the fact that this was all debated, that the Council of Ministers, you called and finally Mr. Šepić said that the Council of Ministers didn't give us an explanation, yes. Mr. Bevanda was behind this pay phone and gave an explanation. [[Employee is warned on time]] So, let me remind you, this is all past the commission phase and that's another reason why everyone is, and now I'm going back to what, the procedure, why all the conditions for an emergency procedure here are fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21417	Thank you. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21418	I thank the chairman. Well, I wouldn't say that this is the correcting of the wrong assumption, this is before the confirmation, this is what the esteemed colleague Arnaut was saying. Yeah, it's true, we had these laws in the same text here, so I really don't see why we have them today. I hope that here all the political factors are serious enough, and everyone boasts by principle, by the continuity of their policy, I don't see how anyone will explain how it was half a year ago against this, and today, for, for half a year ago, this law was the destruction of an indirect taxation system, today is no longer. I don't see how someone who voted against today's vote six months ago will vote for it unless it's the excise patriots. And fellow Arnaut, do you know, I think we should send this to a regular procedure, you know, for what reason? Unfortunately, here I am speaking because I represent voters from Republika Srpska, which the government does not have the means to protect those who will be struck by this law. It was scary for me two days ago when I heard Republika Srpska's prime minister say she would calculate the consequences for farmers. So when you propose a law like this, you need to have measures in advance and you need to have a math, a plan, a system, how to help farmers. And when you have that, it's parallel to going with excises. That's why it takes extra time for Republika Srpska's prime minister to calculate how much this will cost farmers, how much this will break over their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21419	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21420	Thank you. Speaking of political consistency, I think it's us, and I didn't even see it as an objection to this club, since we were both in an emergency procedure last time and for these laws for two basic reasons. One is to support Bosnia and Herzegovina's reform path, the other is to open huge opportunities for highway construction, which will then bring benefits that now 11 many can't even see. However, if you are already opening, from this club, the issue of consistency then explain to me how your ministers Mr. Šarović and Mr. Mektić, and who is third, and Crnadak, I cannot, I forget, did not often vote for the proposal of this set of laws in August last year. First they were in favor and then they were against it. So for someone who has such discontinuity in voting to talk about political consistency, it's kind of weird for me. And it wasn't just that, then we had the Law of Medicine, so the Law on the Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina that passed the truth in this House, but fell into the House of Peoples. So, your ministers vote for, in one or another home, because your MPs vote against, so they talk about political consistency from these benches a little bit doesn't drink water or maybe you hope as three of your colleagues, uh, that here is a short political memory. I also don't understand, I think that now that we've received confirmation from Mrs Pandurević that the SDS Club will be against this, I don't understand when we had negotiations when the SBB was in power, you told us that this coalition of the Alliance for Change is committed to the reform path, that they will vote for these things, etc., I don't understand how, what has changed, this is more an inquiry to the SDA. So, uh, I don't think you really need to talk about political consistency if you don't have it yourself, if your ministers vote for something yes and then against, and it's an identical set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21421	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21422	I thank my colleague Džaferović. You see, dear colleague Arnaut, Dejton has thanked us to Bog, I repeat, thank Bog, he has given three mechanisms of protection, one in the Council of Ministers, one in the House of Representatives, one in the House of Peoples. Our thing is when we're going to what mechanism where we use and where we're going to stop anything. And we'll do that in the future, and you don't worry about the SDS policy. As far as I'm aware of the SBB we didn't have any arrangements, no platforms, we are for a European road trip, but the European road is not over the back of citizens. You know, part of the Reform Agenda is also the fight against crime, the fight against corruption, the greater social benefits, and let's take a European path from examining the origins of the property, let's say, our leaders.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21423	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I suggest that we go back to the procedural issues, this, although I am aware of the vainness of this discussion I cannot say, because obviously decisions have been made elsewhere, as some of the proceedings we have witnessed and when this session began. First of all, I'm thinking about getting my colleagues back from SNSD, so we understand that decisions have already been made. However, I cannot help but ask, in Article 133 of our Rules of Procedure, which treats the emergency procedure, the position (1) stands – in writing the Proposer can ask the House to fully consider the proposal for a high degree of urgency 12 or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected in a single reading. The debate we heard between colleagues and colleagues actually helped to make things clear, but I would like to hear from the promoter why it is so urgent. In a letter that came from, the secretary of the Council of Ministers signed it, it's that it's, I can't quote now, I'm going to paraphrase that it's a condition concerning the arrangement with the IMF. Okay, okay, we know that, but can anyone explain to us what's so urgent, because obviously that's why they call for an emergency procedure, and not this other one that's given alternatively that the law is so formulated in a simple way that it can be adopted immediately. So let's hear from the promoter what's so urgent, especially considering all these discussions we've heard before, and that, which is true, of course, and what fellow Arnaut mentioned, which is true that we've already had a debate about this law that was in the regular procedure. Well, if he was in a regular procedure why wasn't he continued in the regular procedure again, what's so urgent? Perhaps the promoter is able to convince us that there really is a need for urgency. Did the IMF make a move, did they say if we don't finish it by a certain point that there's nothing in the arrangement, let us know what it's about. Maybe that's really the way it is, or there are other reasons. And what we're talking less about here is things that concern content, the measure of the law, we'll discuss it if an emergency procedure goes through, but that's what I'm asking – what's so urgent and I'd like to hear from the promoter what's so urgent? Is it the IMF's pressure to have this adopted by a certain day or is there something else? Because, I repeat, the promoter has called for commitments from the IMF arrangement in his memo, so it is not about this second reason that the law is formulated in a simple way that can be adopted in one reading. That's what I'm asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21425	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21426	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respect for your colleagues, all present and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers. In order for us to even be able to discuss the procedure, which way this is going to go, I think it was necessary, and I'm asking that so I can talk about it at all, that I know the financial effects of this law. You have nothing here, what is expected of the increase in excise duties, how much of the expected income? X? What are the consequences of introducing these excises, I'm talking about consequences? The consequences are in several directions, the first consequences of the impact on the price of the finished product in industry, the price of the product needed through four basic elements to survive the population of food production. What are the effects, what are we going to get, whether our manufacturer's dickiness is going to fall, so he's going to stop working and then we're going to become through, because of the arrangements with the IMF, the vases of production of someone imaginary so far, or is it targeted? Which lobbys are behind this? There's a big reason why I'm asking, that's what I'm going to discuss. Why can't we get in this when the financial effects of how many kilometers of highways through the increase of excise duties are built, how much in the means, how much is it expressed in kilometers, per year, of course, in kilometers? These financial indicators determine what we as MPs do, because we are obliged to think about the way life and the work of the population. And fourthly, is this going to affect the rate of speed in increasing the number of effective jobs or even reducing employment? Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21427	Thank you. No more, distinguished representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21428	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So why isn't this the law that should have been considered in the emergency procedure? So, two or three days ago, we had the opportunity to hear from the media that it was held regionally, at European level, the economy fair, the Economic Fair in Mostar, where even at the Fair of Business, there was talk of the Election Law. So, the only law to be discussed in this House, in this House, is precisely the Electoral Law where we would create conditions for extraordinary elections in order to facilitate all these hardships that our citizens live with the ruling coalition and finally get close to the European Union, or democracy, to show our dissatisfaction and turn Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the European path. While my colleague Saša Magazinović analyzed what European diplomats have been saying these days, I have tried to analyse what it is that the Council of Ministers chaired on several occasions, which, on the website, on the Council of Ministers' website, has shown, so to speak, it has a sentence to point out that in the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers of BiH supported Mr Šarović, the minister, who thus proposed a set of laws to introduce a blue diesel, but also the way in which the entity budgets should be increased for 2017. Also, Mr. Zvizdić regrets that these funds for the promotion of agriculture remain identical and that nothing has been done for farmers at the level of the entite. Also, Mr. Zvizdić said, and several times they launched activities to get Bosnia and Herzegovina to use grants for agriculture from the European Union's IPA funds, but Republika Srpska did not agree to set up a joint paying agency for the spending of these funds. Since the Council of Ministers never agreed to help farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers has found a new way of burdening agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina, farmers, auto carriers, carriers, citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is exactly the set of laws. It also found the chairman of the Council of Ministers to lose 20m to 30m euros annually because of the disagreement from Republika Srpska and Herzegovina. This means that today we have a set of laws that we, as parliamentarians elected by citizens, should support and put them in charge, that as soon as possible these roads that you, as a ruling coalition, will build, and that the citizens will suffer, that we sit on buses as soon as possible and leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is to go as far away from Bosnia and Herzegovina as possible to never return. We, what Mr. Arnaut said on several occasions, had we had the Council of Ministers' answers, I would not have agreed there, because it is not enough just from the Minister of Finance to hear some answers, so my questions would also go towards the Minister of Communications and Transport, which will be built here. Where's the cost-benefit analysis, which roads, in what way, say that, in which time period of grandfather respect, build and the rest? If you are already referring to the Reform Agenda, that is, and I hear one thing and Mr Vigemark said in his media statement that it is part of the Reform Agenda, and I call on him to read the Reform Agenda at least that text that we adopted here in the BiH Parliament, which mentions the increase in excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, so not a single word mentions the increase in excise duties, or the introduction of excise duties on what we are talking about today, on gas and oil. So, we don't have any analysis today, we don't have any statistics, or why we don't..., or why, before the opening of any 14 discussion by Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić didn't come out for this pay phone to explain all the urgency and all the need and all the analysis they have as a body, as the Council of Ministers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we can be here if we don't see from the opposition at least that they begin to remove that curtain from the urgency and the excises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21429	Thank you very much. The word seeks the chairman of the Council of Ministers, distinguished Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21430	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, respected MPs. Just a brief review of the discussion of the distinguished MPs. So, most of the things you said about me are completely false and you use a combination where you pull me out of context, you quote only parts of my sentences, and then you mix them with your views, which is an extremely incorrect approach. So, find the sentence where I said, as you just said, that the Council of Ministers decided to burden the farmers, here's the quote here, find it where you found it. So the complete truth is all that you've just said except for a few sentences that you've mixed with your views and tried to present them as my views. So, with indignity, I refuse and reject at all the attitudes that you have associated with any of my statements.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21431	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21432	There's no need for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to address MPs in this way, but here's the one who picked up the line and I believe she'll have something to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21433	But MPs should also take care of the dignity of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21434	I agree, I agree, too, I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21435	and please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21436	I agree, I agree, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers does not deceive Parliament when a concrete question is asked – is something done and he says it is not, and it is. But, well, it's an old theme we'll have when we have to do it again. 15 I, too, but not for the same reason, wanted to replicate my fellow Vražalica in a way that said that it was not entirely true that I had just analysed the work of the international community on this matter, and that I had touched the work, or the work of the domestics. The Council of Ministers, beware, presented fuel collection as a major success, was a press conference. Guys, he's hoarding up fuel, and we adopted it, just like he is, like they adopted to give people something, not take it away from them. I don't understand that approach. Can't get a blue diesel. And why can't a blue diesel, what can't? Because some bureaucrats, ask Bog where he came from, said it was a possible source of abuse. And it's not a problem that half the state is taking diesel cars to the shed fuel, to the lodge oil, it's not a problem, and it's not abuse and it closes its eyes. A blue diesel that will help farmers can't. Now, what's the explanation? The same thing they gave us for countless laws. Why cannot the chief prosecutor be elected in Parliament, two-thirds, tropetine, whicheverever you want most, as elected in the parliaments of the region, as elected in the European Union, countries. He can't, he says you can't, we're some Indians. Anything he can do in other places the code can't. We miss the people, the spines, and we lack self-esteem, and as long as it's not like this, we're going to be and we're going to be dictated what we're supposed to do. But here, let me put it short, they're not colleagues. A SNSD colleague used to sit around this long, so don't let anything happen to anyone and blame me. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21437	I ask the MPs to abide by the Rules of Procedure and the Code, not to make any jumps bordering the Codex's injuries, please. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21438	I must refer to what the chairman Zvizdić said and I will only quote what you signed in the letter of intent towards the IMF – as a result of this measure towards farmers we want to achieve a 5 million KM savings in agricultural subsidies and a 10 million KM increase in income from mandatory social contributions during 2016 compared to the previous year, which will help our efforts to achieve fiscal consolidation. So anyone who understands this clearly is, on the basis of subsidies you provide farmers with budgetary balance and we have nothing to say, with other measures that you also signed and sent this letter of intent to the IMF, such as. to lift the function of the Federation of BiH Development Bank and abolish the laying of medium and small enterprises, family crafts where farmers also include, you have also given another argument to international financial institutions to destroy this country and destroy the real sector as well as farmers. So there's no need for these kind of trips. I don't know if you didn't sign the letter of intent who then signed it, are those your...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21439	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21440	No... I quote letter of intent to the IMF, you tell only who signed
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21441	Please no discussion, discussion. Please, the chairman. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21442	There's no need to discuss it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21443	Thank you very much. Please, are you looking for a word, Mr. Zvizdić?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21445	Here's a word for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21446	Your Honor, you're deluding the public again. Who signed the letter of intent other than the chairman of the Council of Ministers, say it now to the public, did I sign it myself or did someone else sign it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21447	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21448	Well, then let me tell you, you should have asked, each for its own level. What you've just read is signed by the entity prime ministers, not the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and we've also signed this, so here's what we're proposing to you today by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21449	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21450	I am sorry that the chairman of the Council of Ministers went out for a pay phone, I was hoping that he would give us some answers about this non-existent Cost-Benefit analysis and the rest, but the chairman of the Council of Ministers is coming out to tell me the words I didn't say. So, Mr. Zvizdić, I invite you to read the stenogram and those discussions, and here I will repeat again, so I said, these are my words, you have found a way not to help farmers but to further make their lives worse, i.e. to burden them, and your words are, said the chairman of Zvizdić – the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina earlier showed support for Sarovic's proposal to introduce a blue diesel and any other forms of help to farmers. This, of course, included the need for the entity's agricultural budgets to increase in 2017, Zvizdić said, and regrettably found the funds to encourage agriculture remained identical last year. He added that multiple activities have been launched to allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to start using grants for IPA funds agriculture, but that Republika Srpska did not agree to set up a joint paying agency for the spending of those funds. For this reason, we lose 20 to 30m euros each year, Zvizdić said, ending the quote. So that's what you said, it says, I didn't get anything out of context, and my line is, you're the chairman of the Council of Ministers now again say who signed it, so you're the chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina level and your signature is in the letter of intent and I guess you should read what those other levels have delegated, what they signed, and not here to be, to act as if Bosnia and Herzegovina were some third entity, not Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state with two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21451	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević has a third application, so we can't appreciate it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21452	So just for a little while, that one, I'd say, I'll explain. Chairman Zvizdić says who signed it. It is true that the prime minister of the state has signed the presidency for what is the authority of the state, that entity prime ministers have signed and made commitments for what is the jurisdiction of the unity, so, but what the Council of Ministers has to do, what the state must do, must gather people, must gather all levels, must convince others that what they have signed should be done. Here, I'll talk about the deadlines later, then I'll talk about what we've taken and how many of those deadlines we've broken. You see, as three prime ministers can agree today, here's the chairman, let's answer that, how can I agree to raise 15%, 15 fencing to raise the excise? That's why he has an agreement, and then, in that sense, is both Izetbegović and Čović, and what is called, this Dodik together, and, of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and two entity prime ministers. There is agreement about it and there is no saying – you know, it's signed by some others, they've made commitments, I can't answer for it. When people need to make a new imposition there's a deal, when they need to take responsibility for what's good, for those reforms that I truly advocate, then the vas, eh, now at this point the chairman will be transferring to entity prime ministers, they will say that something later didn't give them, as they call it, the state level. What do people in this country get out of it? So, in that sense, it takes a mechanism, and therefore needs a set of conclusions that I spoke at the beginning. If that set of conclusions will not be adopted, then we will have a continuation of this story, of the charges, of the argument, as it is called, of the transfer of responsibility to each other and of the next two years of mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21453	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21454	Well, this is the only form I can ask through right now, I don't know how you're going to interpret it. Dear Mr. Zvizdić, did you sign this letter of intent or did you not? I understand that there is something in your jurisdiction, and something in the jurisdiction of the entity prime ministers, we are not so naive, we know that, but why do you sign something that you disagree with, regardless of whose jurisdiction it is, because I can conclude it from your discussion. Why did you sign that? You signed this letter of intent, you were quoted parts of the letter of intent, regardless of whose job it is. You didn't have to sign if you didn't agree to it and take over yourself, uh, role and find yourself in the situation you're in today. We all know what this is, so please answer us – what's so urgent about this 18, did they press you from the IMF? They did, brother, and they didn't just press you from the IMF, but the Europeans pushed us all here. If this law were forced into force regardless of the current parliamentary majority, that's why the SNSD colleagues are here today, we all know that. Why? As I'm told, since I'm buying it, the problem is not only in the investment of these 15 fenings, the problem is also in paying back the debts. Why the Europeans? Because they're worth paying back to the EBRD. The fact that a vast population, farmers, is going to suffer, is not possible that we don't care. We must care about it, they're our people. We can't close our eyes and say, "I'm the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you see this with the entity prime ministers, let them patch it up for you, those incentive holes that don't pay off anyway." It's a story served by Europeans. You all know that this is exactly what I'm saying, you know very well. And I understand what the IMF is and what the World Bank and the EBRD is, it's all clear to me, but don't let this people have any more eyes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21455	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21456	I thank the chairman. I'd like to say hello to you first, given that I'm reporting for the first time. I mean, the guilty allegation that I want to, I don't want to be a lawyer to the Council of Ministers, he knows how to defend himself very well, but here I can't let some debaters mix up certain things, I mean, when it comes to the International Monetary Fund and the IPA Programmes. The statements here were obviously on IPA funding, not the International Monetary Fund. With that in mind, I don't think there's much discussion that can be brought into the context of this whole story. And what's very important when it comes to blue diesel, I think there are other instruments, sublegal acts, and even other resolutions, other ministries that can regulate these things. So, uh, I think there's quite enough reason to go into this investment program and end this discussion, of course, to go back to the problem, whether it's an emergency procedure or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21457	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21458	A colleague Isaković is a bit of a management. Of course there are other mechanisms, but these mechanisms are not brought in for years.We know that there is no fuel quality regulation in the country, so we have a situation like this, and among other things you are the ruling coalition, working on it, so here you go, you bet that this regulation is passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21459	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21460	Well, I don't know if my colleague Isaković meant me, the discussion, or the colleagues who touched the IPA funds and the IMF. But here's the truth to the will, where the point is in IPA funds and IMF, the letter of intent and everything else. The ruling coalition could not agree to withdraw IPA funds for farmers, but could agree to send us a set of laws to further endanger the lives of those farmers and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's the context of the IPA funds and this discussion and what the ruling coalition has given us, whose part is you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21461	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21462	The longest is regular. People would say, "There goes the train and you talk." The country is lagging behind in development, there's no big investment, because how you're gonna get there, and you're gonna work and you're gonna take out what you've produced. Without infrastructure today anywhere in the world, and especially in Europe where infrastructure is developed, it cannot count on the future. In that part of the time as a resource is immeasurable, and that dimension makes us think of what we're talking about, which in some things we basically skip, and we don't waste time that we can't catch up on, so emergency procedure. We don't need international financial institutions, we need them. The cash development is gone, if you want to borrow, then you have to secure what you're in charge of, and it's clear to everyone who's in business. Don't, ladies and gentlemen, let's not let resources time because we have different positions here limit the overall development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The lack of time in infrastructure building has cost this country too much so far, if we continue in this way, it can rule it out completely from any serious partnership with others in the environment in which we live, because we are isolated. We are isolated because it cannot be reached or passed through Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no traffic. I appeal to all today for what should be discussed and for what there is, to say, a basis to argue, and what is today, to put in the time behind this, to build and debate, but let's not waste the time we have so far. Bosnia and Herzegovina will not have a perspective of dynamic development, nor will it have large investments unless it has traffic infrastructure. Please think about it, today we need to detach ourselves to build, and there is no building without money. There have been weaknesses in the processes that have been so far, it is an opportunity for us to discuss it, but the lack of action today is a delay in construction, and we cannot allow it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21463	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21464	I agree with the respected colleague Škaljić theoretically and globally, however, in a concrete case, someone should give us the answer to the question today – if the argument for fuel collection is that this money will be used for road construction, since 2014, since 20 elections, it has not built a meter of highways even though the project Picitel – Medjugorje has been completed, although the funds that stand still stand still, although this team that has found the procedures carried out today has ended, only that they choose who will work. And for two and a half years, they couldn't agree who would work, even though they had money, they had a project, they completed all the procedures. And after two-and-a-half years of inability to reach an agreement on who's going to work, cancel the tender, now they're rewriting it with the same project and the same money that's been standing for two-and-a-half years. That's what we need someone here to explain, because if people aren't able to afford the money they have, on the project they have, use why we're borrowing additionally. Then why are we burdening citizens for new, new means when they've been standing for two and a half years? I know someone will say it's a topic for the Federal Parliament, and there will be a thematic session in the Federal Parliament, but the argument for this fuel collection is road construction. Here, let's explain what a hundred million stands on accounts for two and a half years, what's not to be done?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21465	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21466	I thank the chairman. I'll try again as much as I can to keep the need for an emergency procedure and return to what this was about in August and that we've lost too much time. And even then, we felt that an emergency procedure was necessary so that these things could move as soon as possible. Now, eight, nine months later, it is definitely clear that an emergency procedure is necessary. But you see, if people here are talking about farmers, farmers' interests, and they don't argue, then it can remain wrong, completely wrong impression, this, if this is adopted, this will have a result of exclusive circulation for farmers and that's the end of the story. That's absolutely not true. So farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot place their products on not only foreign markets, but even inside Bosnia and Herzegovina because we have a network of roads that we have. Not just highways, but fast roads and simple highways. Businessmen, farmers will benefit from this. The other thing, it's not about here, which a few of my colleagues have wrongly said, whether I'm accidentally or intentionally not sure, but definitely let's explain that this isn't about imposing excise duties. Here we're working, we've had excises now of 10 fencing per litre, and those excises were introduced eight years ago, equal to eight years ago, and you know how much it was then against the introduction of those 10-pound excises per litre. One vote against. So, the SDP, including Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Bešlagić, etc., was not against 10 fenings then, and are now against 15 fenings. With those ten fenings, we built as much as we could. And if we want to build more we're going this way, and we're still going to have the cheapest fuel in the region. Therefore, these attempts to scare farmers, attempts to manipulate farmers, attempts to present the increase in excise duties as a blow to farmers, and ignoring the fact that their much stronger, the placement of their products will be on the market afterwards, is indeed then manipulation of both the public and the farmers to which my colleagues are called, and the maltenes to all of us here who have studied these bill proposals well, which we have studied all the things in the reasoning of the law. When a colleague of the Gasal-Vražalica-Devil is called here several times for Cost-Benefit analysis, if you have read the explanation you will see that there, if you wanted more, you had in additional materials more. Therefore, do not manipulate the public with terms such as Cost-Benefit analysis, and this is in the light of the bill. And now you're hoping that no one has read who and you may, uh, those arguments so that, uh, everyone will fall for it. No way. 21 You have no replica, this, since you are pressed, I see from here, but you do not, the third will be, I remember well. Thank you, enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21467	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21468	Right now? The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21469	Just, here's a few clarifications to, in the meantime, asked questions. So, we're all very serious people here, and I think we need to talk on the basis of the arguments, facts and certainly constitutional powers that the Council of Ministers has, and that finally has this esteemed House. Then, when the constitutional powers of the Council of Ministers are increased, we, as usual, will be responsible and serious about our work, taking over those responsibilities and work seriously and responsibly within these responsibilities. So, I am fully behind her statement that she said, just now quoted the distinguished representative of the Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, but until the part where my statement ends, and I disagree with her interpretation of my statement. So I'm really asking you in the future when you quote me or someone from the Council of Ministers that it can be precisely distinguished when that quote ends, and when your interpretation of what I was thinking is actually beginning, or any other member of the Council of Ministers. As for the Scriptures of intent, in order for the public to be clearly familiar, the Scriptures of intent are signed by members of the Fiscal Council, not by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The members of the Fiscal Council are the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Finance and Treasury Minister, Federation Prime Minister, Federation Finance Minister, Republika Srpska's premium and Republika Srpska's finance minister, with the support of the Central Bank's governor. Of course, in the letter of intent, each proposed measures that he thinks can improve the fiscal and financial situation, the economic situation, improve legislative legislation, etc. And we stand firmly behind those measures that we have signed in front of the Council of Ministers, as part of the Fiscal Council, as part of the letter of intent. So for each of them we have a very clear explanation, clear benefites, clear goals, clear results that will come at a certain time consistent with dynamics and deadlines that are defined by the letter of intent, and later by the Reform Agenda. And finally, the question asked by the esteemed representative Komšić, there is no pressure, of course, of the IMF, we only have deadlines here. As you said in the first part of your presentation, it's probably about deadlines, yes, it's about deadlines. In this case, they are extended only for about seven days, so those deadlines are approximately April 7th or 8, because in the second half of April they will be a session of the IMF board that is scheduled to decide finally on an arrangement related to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Within the letter of intent, dozens of different structural measures are envisaged, but for this level, this stage of the arrangement is defined as 11 previous measures, here these four belong to those 11. The deadlines that took place were practically the end of March, here they were extended for about seven days and the urgency of the procedure itself was, above all, in addition to the substance of the law, related to the deadlines that we have in this phase of the arrangement with the IMF.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21470	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21471	I have to tell my colleague Arnaut that he doesn't talk much about agriculture and how this isn't an impact on agriculture, how it's going to be nice, because I have to say, I'm not ashamed, agriculture trained me, and your parents were Mr. Arnaut's ambassadors. So the difference is huge and so I know that part more and I know that people are pouring 10 marks of fuel. So you have to ask these where you pour fuel to pour people and fuel for 10 marks, those who have 10 marks. So I repeat, I repeat, we must, this Parliament, restore value to this Parliament to make decisions. Of course we understand what the state needs, but we need to make this Parliament aware of what parliaments today have in the environment. To protect those who will be hit by increasing excise duties, and we need that, and we have to, and that's the only real thing, that's, that's our obligation. But please don't, uh, about agriculture anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21472	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21473	Only if I understood correctly, Mr Sadik Ahmetović voted in August to increase excise duties, it seems this time would be against it. So much further on consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21474	Please, please, leave the MPs to decide how they vote. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21475	I thank the chairman. Since I don't have the right to replication, I'm going to use this right to discuss. I see some of them didn't get out of town. Unfortunately, a large part of our country is not only Sarajevo and Banja Luka, streets and asphalt, but also, here is Srebrenica, an agricultural area where a good part of the population lives exclusively from agriculture, or ask a colleague of Vukovljak or a colleague of Milovanović what this means about this Sember peasant, what a Sember peasant farmer, I don't know, cabbage, paprika thinks about this, celebrates, is it good to bring him an increase in excise duties and an increase in fuel prices. In addition, the Republika Srpska government has not fulfilled its legal obligation since 2010. It violates the law, and the legal obligation is to 6% of gross social product to encourage businesses, agriculture. It's at 105 million this year, only in 2009 it was 81 million and that's when it was so isolated. From 2010 to today, 60 million are set aside, so 40 and some million less than the law obliges them to set aside for the promotion of agriculture. And then here, DF counterparts quoted the part that the Republika Srpska government took on in the IMF's letter of intent where Prime Minister Cvijanović signed the letter, in the IMF's letter of intent, praised that he would take another 5 million from the farmer. So, out of the 40 he already won't give them, he'll take another 5 million because, he says, those who don't pay regular contributions won't give subsidies, not asking if these people have anything to pay for regular contributions. And if we will, unfortunately, our strongest economic branch, our farm to bury, we will support this today without any safeguards. The only thing we ask for is the first safeguards for farmers to be relieved and to be helped. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21476	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Željko Komšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21477	Thank you. I want to thank President Zvizdić for the answer he gave. So it's not about the pressure of the IMF or anyone from the international community, it's about deadlines, respect for deadlines. Did I get it right? Okay. Then I have another question, and what have you been waiting for? What were you waiting for five to twelve to come, so now we find ourselves in a situation like this to discuss back – the application and break things over our knees, and we all know how important the question is? I have that question now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21478	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21479	I'm really sorry to hear from you the second time, but I don't intend to discuss it very long, but I just want to remind all of us of something that's going on in our neighborhood. One country that is also in a very complex political and economic economic situation, and whatever other situation you want, has made a huge step within a very short time. It has become a major construction site, becoming the site of large international companies, large international banks that conquer the European market through the country just because they had more courage, wisdom and determination to go into investment ventures. With this approach, we will neither protect peasants nor build infrastructure. I am not running away from that life is difficult in Bosnia and Herzegovina and complicated, and all that we have said and I see, so I, by the streets and by means of transport, meet daily with these problems, but I am also aware that without an investment cycle, that without bringing investment from outside, investors from outside in Bosnia and Herzegovina can not make any millimeter improvement. So, and this is one of the opportunities of whatever she is, eight months we've been playing around here in Parliament whether we want to or not. And in that sense, the discussion of all of us from the SBB was, so I seem to have said, in my discussion, therefore, it is not disputed that there are problems and that all these problems should come to the agenda to discuss them, but this is something that should not be hampered by these problems that are evident, but that we are solving them but we need to give this support. In that was my discussion, and I just wanted to point it out one more time, give a positive example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21480	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21481	Well, so, very briefly, seeing as how this is going to go to the polls now, so don't miss the chance for us all to get involved, let's do it. What you're talking about, Mr. Đonlagić, is just a short, as it is called, a replica, so what happens in that country is done by new people who have the strength, energy and courage to do it, and those who have dragged us here for years like they should now, what they call it, the chances of doing it when we increase these, uh, fuel, make new accusations for the citizens, so like then they'll start the country. So that's why these mechanisms that I'm talking about are important, and that's why it's important for this to be improved in the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21482	Thank you very much. I'm closing the hearing because there are no more reports. And from now on, I'm going to interrupt in the discussion of anyone who answers under one excuse, and then later on, he's using it as an opportunity to discuss it. I'm not calling anyone out specifically, I noticed that today in a few cases, I'm going to interrupt the discussion. At the request of some clubs, I'm taking a break until 12 o'clock. We're voting on an emergency procedure at 12 o'clock. I ask the MPs to sit in their seats. Please, please prepare for the vote, continue the session. We are voting on a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure. So we're voting on an emergency procedure request. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 19 against, 1 abstention. I question the results of the vote. I invite you to come forward again. Prepare to vote again. 19 votes for, 19 votes against, 1 abstention. There is no general majority, and I find that Parliament has not adopted an emergency procedure. Now I'm asking you who's in favor of this going into short-term procedure? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 21 against, 2 abstentions. There is, therefore, no general majority, I realize that this law goes into regular procedure. We move to point two of today's session, that's, uh, 25 Ads. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-862/17, of 29.03.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21485	Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21486	Ministers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21487	Greetings to the College, MPs, fellow ministers. Since these two, the second and third laws are implementing laws related to the one which did not get most, then it is pointless, this one, to consider, means they should share the fate of this first law.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21488	Thank you very much. We need to conduct the procedure. I call upon you to state the procedure relating to item 2, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Account Law, bearing in mind, of course, what the Honorable Minister of Finance and Treasury said. Prepare to vote. 16 for, 18 against, 5 abstentions. So, no emergency procedures were adopted here. We're talking about a shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. 16 for, 19 against, 4 abstentions. No procedures have been adopted or shortened. We're going into regular procedure with this law. We're moving to the point of today's three agenda, that's Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-861/17, of 29.03.2017 I'm opening a debate on the procedure. 26 I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the procedure. Prepare to vote, we're voting on an emergency procedure. 16 for, 20 against, 3 abstentions. So there's no general majority for emergency procedures. We're talking about a shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. 16 for, 18 against, 5 abstentions. There's no general majority for short procedures either. This law goes into regular procedure. Moving to the point of the four agenda, that's Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for an Emergency Procedure Proposal of Deposit in the Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Zakon number: 01,02-02-1-860/17, of 29.03.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21491	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21492	Where's my heel?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21493	There's four of them, four of them are dots.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21494	Did we vote for 4th? 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21495	We're done, we're done, we're done, we're done. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21496	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21497	Yes, it's all over.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-04-05-0.u21498	This way we ended up working on an emergency session. Thank you for your cooperation and goodbye. Session completed at 12:25 p.m.
