ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19516	Dear MPs and MPs will begin with a session of the House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 51st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Guests are invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the media and all dear guests who follow the work of our House. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Security Minister's Office Dragan Mektić informed us that the minister is unable to attend today's session. The absence was also justified by Agent Đorđo Krčmar. According to our service, there are 32 representatives present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral, parliamentary questions and giving answers. I give my word to the representatives of Diana Zelenika. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19517	I thank and warmly welcome all present in the hall. I hope we've rested, that we won't spend this last year on national flossules. My question was asked last time, but in the absence of the minister, I didn't get an answer, so here I am going to read it again. The question is: What did the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, do to improve the situation of farmers, i.e. agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in view of the requirements of farmers who pointed out through their associations, both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska, and in the light of the introduction of the over-sumption on imports of agricultural products, restrictions on imports of seasonal fruit and vegetables when domestic products are sufficient on the market, introducing more stringent controls on imports of agricultural products, given that imports of very non-quality products, i.e. products that cannot pass on the European Union market, end up on our market? If the minister's response implies a ban and a restriction on the introduction of measures to protect domestic production, calling for signed international contracts by Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I ask precisely to be cited by international contracts that prevent 2 from introducing measures to protect domestic, domestic production, or provisions that prohibit it. Here, I thank Minister Šarović in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19518	Thank you, counsel. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19519	Thank you. I welcome you all, Your Honor. Given the many questions and, I would say, the complexity of your question, we will provide a complete answer by written means, but these few minutes, I will use it now, perhaps, for a few concrete answers to the questions relating to the overtures, i.e. the quality of the products themselves. And perhaps, at the beginning, to point out that the measures taken by the Ministry, or by the Council of Ministers of BiH, to take steps and measures to support the agricultural sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are contained in the Roadmap to create conditions for the export of agricultural products of plant and animal origin, which the Ministry has been preparing since 2010 and each year submits an annual report. This was the case for 2016, i.e. '17. A year. And in that sense we will give a complete answer, but these few questions deserve, perhaps, the attention they will also be in this competent answer. The issue of prelemani, i.e. additional taxis, was used by the Council of Ministers since 01.03.'99. until half of 2002, when under the Customs Tariff Act and amending the Customs Tariff Act, this issue was settled by law. Thus, the Customs Tariff Act has been told that customs duties on certain products are charged to the total, in percentage for the value of imported goods, i.e. products, and for certain products only, these may also be imposed a special tax, i.e. a premium on the quantity, i.e. the quantity unit and apply to certain products, but only to third countries. By way of effect of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the CEFTA Agreement, i.e. the EFTA Agreement and the signing of bilateral agreements with Turkey and Iran, Bosnia and Herzegovina negotiated customs rates and possible advances, and without any change to these agreements, it is not possible to introduce new advances, because as a country, we are obliged to sign these multilateral and bilateral agreements. It is something that we may explain in detail in our complete answer, but you have touched questions about the protection of domestic production. This has been regulated, as you know, with two or three decisions adopted by the Council of Ministers several years earlier, and we will give you a concrete answer. That's when it comes to... regulated by Article 39, at which point Bosnia and Herzegovina can impose safeguards under what conditions. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to use here for maybe half a minute, an important issue of imports, border controls and imports of suspicious goods or goods of poor quality. That question is defined by acts that we can call market standards. Bosnia and Herzegovina can introduce the highest level market standards for goods entering Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is what the ministry proposes for a long, long period, but the same standards must apply to its producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is resistance, entities and some associations are not ready to introduce the same standards for manufacturers in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is the subject, I would say, of discussions within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, since time is up, you'll really get a competent answer on these issues at the most recent time. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19520	Thank you, Minister. Any comment from the MPs?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19521	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19522	Thank you very much. I give my word to the next representative, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19523	I thank the chairman. I remind you that since early May, on many occasions, I have been trying to ask this question. Last time Mr. Zvizdić refused to answer the same without reason, I hope I get an answer today. The question is – What is the position of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, on statements by the head of the Sarajevo Municipality of Novi Grad about who or cannot be Bošnjak, and what statements include pseudo-science claims such as those of the darkest times of the European continent? After several attempts to ask this question, the minister answered in writing that the Ministry, that its Ministry is not competent, I quote - is not responsible for taking views on such statements, and that, again, I quote - there is no obligation to launch activities for human rights violations, closed quote. Since such an approach fully deviates from the access of sister ministries in the region, and that the official concerned had similar statements on other categories such as, quote – most women working through women's organisations in public communication show an extremely high dose of frustration. I think it's mostly about different personal frustrations that are further increased by acting through women's organisations, and then trying to treat each other by acting in public space, a closed quote, the head of the SDA community. Now, given that in your, Mr. Prime Minister's Board, the exhibition stands as a priority, I quote - insurance of citizens' equality, a closed quote, and again quote - the abolition of every form and type of discrimination and segregation, a closed quote, and your Minister of Human Rights says it is not jurisdiction, my question to you is – is anyone in the Council of Ministers working on these priorities, from your exposé, and if they do what they do about attitudes such as those of the municipality, i.e. what is your position on these views? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19524	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19525	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, respected media representatives and distinguished guests, I warmly welcome you on behalf of and on behalf of the Council of Ministers and I wish for a successful work of today's session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. 4 As I said last time, the answer to this, or to an almost identical question, was given earlier by Minister Borovac, so in principle I can, in a way, just repeat part of her answer. This, if you consider necessary, can be sent to you in written form, because neither does the Ministry of Human Rights nor Refugees as an authority of the administration, nor does the Council of Ministers of BiH as a collective body have the authority to take charge, to take views on individual claims and the findings of BH officials in the media. So we are the position that every public official must take responsibility for the spoken word for the reason that such a spoken word has a multiple impact on whoever it refers to, or on those who listen, or on the general public opinion. For this reason, the statements, not only that we are talking about, but also the general statements of officials must be reasoned, must be true, must be backed up by facts and in no case should they insult neither dignity nor reputation nor integrity of any man. So, of course, in the focus of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers which is closely linked and with the exhibition that I, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, submitted at the beginning of our mandate, is of course not our primary activity to think about what an official on a daily basis has said in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we already have thousands of statements on the daily basis of officials, completely uncontrollable and unargumented statements that go mainly to offend other politicians or members of another ethnic or national group. This means that at least a few hundred statements should be analysed on a daily basis, which, due to the already started election campaign, fluctuate in our public media. That is why we in the Council of Ministers adopted amendments to the law, the Criminal Law of BiH, which we did unanimously in the Council of Ministers. I expect that they will find themselves very quickly in front of a parliamentary home, within which we have very precise and qualityd the meaning of hate speech in all areas of society. So, we have made it very clear who, by means of press, radio, television, computer systems or networks, in a public gathering or in other ways, makes publicly motivated or publicly available flyers, images or other materials that call for violence, hatred directed against a group or a member of such a group in terms of race, color of the skin, religion, origin or national or ethnicity, sex, sexual commitment, gender identity, disability, or any other traits in the event of initiation being committed in a way that will encourage violence and hatred against such a group or person, of which, of course, the court decides, will be punished by imprisonment of at least one year. So we think that hate language is actually one big problem for our current, current situation and our society, and therefore I expect that this part of the amendment and addition of the Criminal Law in a way, give a very good solution and finally an opportunity to process such statements or condemn those who, through their statements, spread any hate speech. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19526	Thank you very much for your comment, is there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19527	I thank the chairman. First of all, I am glad that the prime minister at the last session said that they would decide who would give me the answer, and I reminded myself that I am still deciding that the answer will be given to the one to whom I ask it, and I am glad that this time, a respected Rules of Procedure, that Mr. Zvizdić is up. I am not pleased to hear the sentence again that the Council of Ministers has no jurisdiction, i.e. the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the Minister of Human Rights, has no jurisdiction to take positions on officials' statements, because what kind of message do you send to returnees? If 5 you do not have the authority to take views on the Bosnian language, etc., what message do you send to returnees? What seems to me here, are you afraid to take a stand on this particular official, Head of the New Town Municipality? Anyway, this answer is defeating, but if you don't have the authority to take your views, then how do you intend to meet these two priorities? from your exposé. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And to conclude, we have several hundred statements a day just because you're afraid to take a stand in these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19528	Thank you. I give the word to MPs Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19529	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman and gentlemen chairing, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, media representatives. At the last session, I asked the Honorable Minister, Mr. Šarović, a question I will repeat today, last time the minister was not present at the session. I'm going to ask him very briefly I know about the activities you've taken in the area of malaria, but still because of the currentity of the moment I'm going to ask another question. So – What activities is taken by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina to help the producers of raspberries in Bosnia and Herzegovina achieve the quality of production, which is very important, and exports, and branding the production of Bosnia and Herzegovina raspberries, which in any case would help to make the world market easier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19530	Thank you. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister BiH Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19531	Thank you. Of course, we will answer to give the complete in writing, and in these few minutes to point out that the issue is price, price policy, market issue, control issue, inspection and phytosanitary supervision in the jurisdiction of the Federation, or Republika Srpska. You know that the price policy and the price of raspberries for this year is problematic, but it's too little time to talk about it, let's talk about it. Under its jurisdiction this, but even earlier years, the Ministry had the activities at its disposal, above all to raise standards and create conditions for the export of these products to the world market under the most favourable conditions. In that sense, perhaps, here, to take the opportunity to say that we solved the stalemate and the blockade we had when it came to the export of fruit and vegetables, or raspberries, to the Russian market, you know how. Also, after a little longer delay and suspension of measures, we have since February 2017 unblocked duty-free exports of fruit and vegetables to the European Union, so-called "European Union". autonomous measures, unilateral measures of the European Union which give these benefits to individual countries. Since February, we can also export raspberries to all European Union countries under the most favourable conditions. There are other activities involved here, especially lately, the problem with the export of raspberries to Serbia, a few shipments of raspberries, several shipments of shipments due to the presence of 6 remnants of raspberries, as well as the presence, or norovirus, the so-called dirty hand virus, which says that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to do more in this regard, and the key problem is the lack of a laboratory. There is no laboratory in Bosnia and Herzegovina that could give an answer when it comes to the norovirus, but other countries do. As a result, certain shipments are returning and it is a danger for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be placed on a list from which raspberries cannot be exported to that market. Maybe this is an opportunity to say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for the excess raspberries that have emerged since 2016, have notified all diplomatic representations of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this sense have taken action so that extra raspberries in the freezers can be placed on these markets, and some other measures, but since this has already expired two minutes, I will certainly give you a more complete answer. [[the speaker is warned on time]] malinar, of the Federation, is likely to make a request for a meeting at the ministry in the coming days and from Republika Srpska, which we will be pleased to accept. We have all the standards, it's clear, we have a license to export all the products of plant origin, and when it comes to products of animal origin, we are currently working on exporting chicken meat and eggs, and I hope soon red meat and that would be the finale of reaching standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19532	Thank you very much. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19533	Dear Ministers, Mr. Šarović, very highly respecting all your overall involvement in your ministry, where I sincerely congratulate you, respecting the efforts of Foreign Minister Mr. Crnadko, to force economic diplomacy finally, which has finally come in turn in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I just want to comment very briefly. So, I very much support what you're doing with the fact that the ransom price of the raspberries is a mark and a half, when you buy a frozen product, which we import from Croatia or Serbia, 400 grams costs four and a half marks, a kilo would cost somewhere between 10 and 12 marks, so that we can try, either with foreign investors or with some domestic posts, we pack a final product and export it out, because it seems to me that, apart from one factory in Tešnja and perhaps in Sarajevo a factory, we don't plan a final frozen product. This would be much more profitable for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of hiring a new workforce and finally collecting a larger amount of money on exports. So why do we always sell only basic raw materials, and others, others charge Money. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Please think about it, I believe deep in what you do and I know that you will do everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19534	Thank you. I give my word to MPs Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19535	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I warmly welcome all present. 7 My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, actually to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and it is, I would say, about the set of questions, the four questions are somehow connected. One was repeated earlier, here I have been asking for 10 months now, and then I have repeated this time – What has been done since or since I asked, done on the implementation of the replacement and renewal project and other traffic signalling which marks the border crossing and its area, etc., what is it called, for which three, four years ago the project documentation was done and paid for, and almost two years ago the funds of about 800,000? The second question – What activities has the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport taken on the disputes, I mean the contract and the Ombudsman's office, related to the Centre for Education from the Broad Brieg, which deals with the professional training of carriers and drivers, and does the Ministry of Communications and Transport pay off, does the ministry pay 5% of the funds it owns from the total amount of money that carriers and drivers necessarily pay to the Centre? The third question is: Is it what, or did the Ministry do anything about the funds at all, it is 1.3 million KM, collected from the certification of carriers in the international transport of passengers and goods that remained blocked, we know, in the sub-account of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce? And nazad – Is the Ministry, is all issues somehow related to each other, is the Ministry anything again, or, and what, if so, has been done in accordance with the BiH Court's ruling on the approval of vehicles, parts, devices, since the problem, which the media wrote about, dates back to the past term, and not from this, so from the time of the ministry of Damir Hadžić? There were questions, I'm some draft in the meantime, so it's called, the draft answer got, but here I am on the agenda now, so thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19536	Thank you very much. Before we give the reply to the Minister, I would like to warn the representative that, under Article 167(3), an MP may ask one question, and in this context, the minister should give himself up when it comes to the answer. Minister of Communications and Transport, Mr. Jusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19537	The Honorable Chairman, deputy, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, media representatives. Dear MPs, we delivered a reply to the Secretariat General on 12.07.2017. Probably because of all those topics that were related to the Transport Community this item of the agenda was not active, but here I am now insisting on the Secretary-General and the Council of Ministers at the next Council of Ministers to be your answers and that you get in writing. Since these are very large answers, I ask you to accept them in writing. But here, this time I will take the opportunity, both for you and for all the other MPs, somehow I see that we and you are serving the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and a large number of these issues that I received in this mandate, to be honest, have helped me to launch many processes that have long stood in the ministry. And let me put it this way, these four questions that I have received from you, you also know that these are inherited problems, but precisely synergy and some direct communication between you and, here I will say in this case as a minister, it can personally help me solve a large number of problems. So here I am, taking the opportunity to call you next to Parliament's session whenever you have time, whether we come to you or to us, and talk about all these problems and be confident that we will give you a lot more information 8 than we can give from this position. But here, I'm taking the opportunity to say that at the next Council of Ministers session, your answers will be the same, and whenever you want, we can see ourselves going through all of them together, along with your delegation or team and representatives of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19538	Thank you, Minister. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19539	I thank the Minister for his reply and accept this kind of communication in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19540	Thank you very much. I give my word to legislators Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19541	I thank the chairman. Since my question is addressed to Minister Mektić, who is not here today, I am leaving for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19542	Thank you very much. I give my word to MPs Dušanka Majkić. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19543	Thank you. I welcome all present. My question is to the Secretary of Defense. Therefore, it is known that the Council of Ministers at its meeting of 23.12.2015 has adopted a Decision on the refurbishing of MI helicopters with a total value of 7.4 million marks. Helicopters, as known, play a key role in civilian purposes and help the local population in the event of elemental accidents. My question is, according to the information that I have, the Ministry of Defence has selected the Lithuanian company "Helisota" in a recently opened tender for remonting and cannot guarantee the safe and reliable operation of helicopters after remonting, my question, as soon as possible, to the Minister for Response – How is it possible for the tender commission to assign a job to a company without a certificate, i.e. whether one of the conditions is foreseen in the form of a tender documentation, which is that the company that is responding to the competition must have a certificate? And secondly, does this mean that the case will be repeated during the failure of two helicopters, MI-8MTV and MI17, in Ukraine when the aircraft came in worse shape than they went on a remont, even though the remont was paid about 10 million marks? So, I'm asking you for a concrete answer. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19544	Thank you. Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19545	Madam Chairman, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representatives, colleagues. Based on the launched public procurement process, MI-8MTV1 and MI-8MT, the BiH Defence Ministry have made a decision on the results of the pre-qualification procedure. Of the four applications, two candidates, two companies met the qualifications requirements, while two candidates failed to meet the requirements given in the tender documentation. In the Prequalification Decision, one of the candidates lodged an appeal against which the Board of Appeal adopted a Decision on the refusal of the appeal as unfounded. The BiH Defence Ministry, according to the finality of the solution from qualified candidates, has qualified those companies that provided all the required evidence, including certificates, with the same and accepted all the conditions in the tender documentation and submitted, require the delivery of initial offers, followed by negotiations, and final offers requested. Of the two final bids, one offer was not acceptable to the contracted authority. The decision on the selection of the most favourable bidder has brought an appeal which has not been resolved by the Board of Appeals so far. It is known that the obligations of the parties in the procurement process and thus the contracting authority, that the knowledge of all the information they come to when they see it, or which they have come to in any way, must not be used, adopted or forwarded to third parties until the end of the procedure. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence, as a party to the proceedings, cannot at this time provide any information or further clarifications regarding this phase of the proceedings until the proceedings are concluded before the Board of Appeals. Therefore, the BiH Ministry of Defence will present the public to you, Mrs Majkić, the Parliamentary Assembly, all the elements and details of the procedure, and may say that the Ministry of Defence considers that the proceedings in question have been carried out in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement and all sublaws governing this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19546	Thank you. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19547	I thank you for your answer, but I practically didn't get what I was looking for. And by respecting what you said you had to be quiet until the Office's report came in to discuss complaints, but after that, I expect you to really give all the information and don't forget this question you got today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19548	Thank you. I give my word to Agent Denis Bećirević. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19549	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was raised nine days ago by the Minister of Human Rights at the BiH Council and the issue concerns violation of the elemental human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national state, Nana Fata Orlović. Although I am an opposition MP, I will not speak to the opposition vocabulary for the simple reason that this problem did not arise in this term and that even before the current minister there were plenty of ministers and Council of Ministers, but this problem is still, unfortunately, not solved. It is sad that we have to deal with this issue at the end of the second decade of the XXI century. I ask the question – When would it occur to anyone in my native Tuzla or in Sarajevo, Zenica, Travnik, Bihać or other towns of Bosnia and Herzegovina to build an institution of religion on other people's property? If you thought of it, you'd be sentenced by the citizens of those cities themselves. How can we, here, for 18 years already not be able to solve this problem? Is it possible that Nana Fata Orlović will not welcome justice for life? Well, I think it's about time that this issue was settled, and that's settled by the end of this year, because whatever you say after 1 January next year is going to be an election year and it's going to have a completely different connotation. And in this sense, I call on the Minister to answer both me and the public – What has this Ministry done specifically to solve this problem? If he can and has this information to tell us if there is another example in the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina where someone made an spite religious object, and that it is on the property of another citizen who is another religion? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19550	Thank you. The Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mrs. Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19551	I welcome all present. Well, it's not easy to answer this question, especially because after receiving this parliamentary question I checked that at the Ministry of Human Rights, here, until '14. The year was not a single request, nor any activity that would involve the ministry in the event of the issue being resolved at the property-legal request of Fate Orlović. What I can say is that, here, in a very urgent way, we asked the competent authorities, because in this case, the judicial authorities dealt with this issue, we asked for information on the status of this case. And what we got from the president of the Srebrenica court, the basic court in Srebrenica, was that following the decision of the Supreme Court of Republika Srpska in August 2014, which metrically rejected the review of Prosecutor Orlović Fate, the case was not filed with this Court, and some new case relating to the same parties was not launched. What is new is that, in the meantime, an appeal procedure has been initiated before the BiH Constitutional Court by the proxies Fata Orlović. Neither Bratunac Municipality nor Bratunac Municipality informed us that in the last four years, Fata Orlović had not addressed this organ in the matter of moving the Orthodox church out of her house's courtyard in Konjević's field. Unfortunately, here, I can also say that the Ombudsman Institution, or the Office of Representatives before the European Court of Human Rights, did not have this case under consideration. What the Ministry will do is immediately submit your question to the Ombudsman institution which, otherwise, as a competent institution can examine from the aspect of human rights violations this case. 11 You have asked yet, behold, one question which you have not asked before, whether there are any similar cases. As far as I know, I have information, we have one case, and it was built a mosque, built a mosque in the Bradin municipality,...the part of Bradina where it took hold of the Serbian country. And that object was destroyed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19552	Thank you very much. Does the representative have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19553	So it is clear that no one can be satisfied with the state of resolution of this issue. For this reason, I will use this comment on the answer that, in addition to the actions taken, I would like to propose to the distinguished minister some other actions that you may be able to take as a ministry. First, I suggest you put this issue on the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers. Secondly, you might want to send a memo to the BiH Interreligious Council and have them take another look at the issue, and certainly they too can influence the resolution. And thirdly, I think it is high time that your ministry, if necessary, MPs who want to do so together with you, should also address all international institutions with the aim of resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19554	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19555	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and the deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs and all others present. My question is for Mr. Zvizdić, and that is – When will they be collected, agreed and translated answers to the questionnaire, if you can tell us some term which is real, and if they are not up until then will they, as a sign of their responsibility, resign you? In addition, I would ask you to tell us what the problems are in collecting answers, how does the coordination mechanism work, what is the relationship between the government of the entity, the Brcko District, do they determine attitudes or do experts do? And, here, if there's anything else that you think is important and related to this process.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19556	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19557	Thank you, Chairman. I thank you for asking. Very short, twenty seconds, just a gene of what's going on with the answers. As you all know, we received a questionnaire on 09.12.2016. Immediately afterwards, the Directorate for European Integration held a whole series of educations, through which more than 1,000 civil servants went through. About models, ways and access to good practices in the preparation of 12 responses itself, a Single Information System at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina was established and the first deadline was for all institutions, constitutionally competent institutions, to contribute, i.e. their proposals to the questions raised by 31 January 2017. If all the institutions had provided answers to the original plan by then, of course, that in June, or July, the prepared questionnaire would have sent the translated questionnaire to Brussels. Unfortunately, by January 31st 12th, and 13 levels of Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities participating in the preparation of the response provided their questions except for the institutions of Republika Srpska that were five months late in the response delivery. We are now trying in an accelerated dynamic to compensate for the five-month loss that we have not received answers from the institutions of Republika Srpska that came practically in early July. In the meantime, therefore, all bodies are formed according to the coordination mechanism – 33 plus 3 working groups divided by precisely defined chapters, more than 1,400 members of working groups are actively working. During July and August, more, almost, about 40 working groups meetings were held, and at this point we have delivered all the answers that we have now determined the process to return to the verification of institutions that have prepared and answers, with the need to deliver certain legal, purified laws and accompanying sublegal acts that we will have to submit with our own answers. By 15 September, we will have a very clear picture of those answers that have been agreed on and those answers that have not been agreed by the working groups but will be done by other bodies in the coordination mechanism, which is the Commission for European Integration and the College for European Integration. So we regularly report, that is, we have established a practice of regular reporting, so that is a regular point at each, maximum at each other's Council of Ministers. The realization of the questionnaire is a regular point at every session of the BiH presidency where the BiH Presidency is reporting on the achieved stage of the realization of the questionnaire. And somewhere, I say, about half of September, we'll know what number of answers are agreed, and what number of answers are going to be done by some other bodies within the coordination mechanism. Meanwhile, a public hearing process for translators has been launched which will work on translation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] More than 250(?) has appeared so far The translators, they will pass the commission criteria. Our assessment is that it will take between 100 and 120 translators to complete this process within some months, up to a maximum of two months of translation itself. So we're trying to make up for these five months of stasis. And, here, let our, let me say, optimistic expectations are that by the end of the year we'll finish the questionnaire and send it to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19558	Thank you very much. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19559	Of course I'm not happy with the answer because I didn't get it. My question was – when will this process be completed and if it is not within the time when you say so will you resign? Obviously we're in trouble, you're saying that all the answers came in, today in Avaz's interview the director of the Directorate says they're not, let everyone choose who they trust. But there are a number of problems, and I think both Parliament and the public should be familiar with them and there is no need to push anything into their celephan. If we roll these things into the cellophane and tie the bow, we'll never finish this job. And I don't know why you don't go out and tell Parliament that there are people in working groups who should be doing technical work, who have imagined themselves that politicians have waited five minutes for them to block something out because they are important at that point. You 10 in the Council of Ministers 13 cannot agree to come out with a coherent public attitude, and in the coordination mechanism participates A man who needs to get along. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It will prove to the chairman that this mechanism of coordination, which you insist on defending, cannot work without talking about the question of the language that has emerged as a problem in working groups, about trying to delete the Federal Ministry of Science and Education, that cantons continue to be dragged into those working groups in which they have no authority, etc., etc. I think you should go out, first of all to Parliament, and say how how things really... [[the speaker is warned on time]] And then to the public, because this is going to come back to you, this is going to be a boomerang for you, for no one else, if you continue to create a false image of a process which unfortunately is followed by great problems. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19560	Thank you. I give my word to Representative Salki Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19561	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. And, behold, what the people say is miracles, the same question I prepared for the chairman was me. I was also interested in, uh, me as an MP and the Bosnian Herzegovina public – as long as it came from 3,242 answers to the questions of the European Commission, also translators, time, etc. Here, if I don't take up more time, I've heard the chairman, uh, about, here at this point we know the current situation and what I'm not, I'm not expecting any further explanations because this was enough, but what I want in the next period is to follow, so if there are any additional questions I'm going to be chairing this way with him, or with the Council of Ministers, I'm going to communicate with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19562	Thank you. The answer, Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] She's taking it, isn't she? Okay, okay. So we're going to the next question. I give my word to MP Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19564	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to Mr. Zvizdić and it concerns the Elektroprenos BiH. So, 21.06.2017 was held a session of the Assembly of Shareholders of Elektroprenos BiH Banja Luka and a decision was taken on the appointment of executive directors and members of the Board on the proposal and on the basis of the Decision of the Management Board, the number and the number since 29.05.2017. - Is this appointment legal, i.e. has it been done in accordance with the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and has 14 opinions of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the BiH Ministry of Justice, the BiH Office of Law and the BiH Ministry of Finance for these appointments been requested? If it is confirmed that it is illegal appointments – When will the Council of Ministers repeal it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19565	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19566	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. At the beginning, I should say that the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, any Ministry and the Office of Law, Elektroprenos did not ask for any consent, nor did he inform us of the process of appointing the perpetrators of the duties. They, according to the information we currently have, have done so in accordance with the Company Statute, Article 72(3), but according to our information in the Law, there is no variant of the appointment of v.d.. At all, the performer of duty, therefore, to any function. So, let us, if you agree, to deliver it to you for the next time or very quickly in writing, to carry out further consultations and additional checks on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19567	Thank you. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19568	Of course, this is, there's always talk about the transfer of entity jurisdiction to, from entity to state, here we have a situation that is usurped by the powers of the Council of Ministers, that the usurped powers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that entities have appointed non-existent, so, v.d. Executive Directors and the Management Board, for those who do not know, are entity prime ministers and prime minister in this case. So I hope that the Council of Ministers will finally correct this illegal appointment and will act in accordance with the law, because it is a Bosnia and Herzegovina firm, at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19569	Thank you. I give my word to my representative, Maji Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19570	I thank the chairman and welcome all present My question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, more specifically the Ministry of Human Rights of BiH and the Ministry of Security of BiH, and as regards recent unmitigated events in Kruščica where locals have been gathered to defend their basic human rights, which is the right to drinking water, to health, to protect the environment and natural resources, were extremely inhumanely treated by members of police, the special police of the Central Bosnian Canton. This way I ask the competent resolution 15 ministries whose authority has human rights, all signed conventions which Bosnia and Herzegovina signed, as well as human rights, as in the BiH Ministry of Security, are in their jurisdiction, one of the responsibilities, protection of persons and objects, since the Minister of Security is not present, I ask that, for the sake of a stenogram, to respond to me by written means, and Minister Borovac asks the following – What has the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees taken on the cases of the brave woman Kruščica, in particular bearing in mind that the Ministry is responsible for monitoring the implementation, reporting on the implementation of all international conventions in the domain of human rights? Also – Have you done anything to point out to all relevant institutions in the Central Bosnian Canton that one of the fundamental human rights is the right to health, drinking water and disposal, and that environmental protection absolutely affects and determines the degree of health of each individual and individual? What have you done as a resorient ministry in the context of publication, published texts, images and videos that testify to an extremely inhumane, highly unprofessional treatment of women by members of the Central Bosnian Canton Special Police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19571	Thank you. The Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mrs. Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19572	Gasal-Vražalica can give the following answer to the Parliament's question. Regarding the events in Kruščica near the Knights Agency for Gender Equality of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees has opened the subject with regard to the examination of violations of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and, in that sense, the Agency has sent requests to the Ministry of the Interior of the Central Bosnian Canton and the House of Health, requesting information on the measures taken and actions of police officers, as well as the type and severity of injuries for all patients received in this event. After that, on August 25th, the Agency for Gender Equality of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees issued a press release on the activities undertaken. The Agency will continue to monitor developments related to this event and, after obtaining official and complete information and field visits, it will also be able to propose certain measures. The BiH Ombudsman's human rights institution has also opened an ex-officio subject in which it will examine all the circumstances of this case regarding the right to health, drinking water, and disposal. In addition, the Ombudsman will also review the process of obtaining a license for mini hydroelectrics from the point of environmental protection and the interest of the local population.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19573	Thank you very much. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19574	I thank the honourable minister and I am encouraged by everything I've heard. And I ask the minister, since she is co-operating with the Ministry of Human Rights, i.e. she is in the authority of the Joint Commission on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that after all documents have been collected to deliver the same to the Joint Commission on Human Rights. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19575	Thank you. I give my word to counsel Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19576	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I asked a parliamentary question, or I announced to the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Foreign Affairs, I don't know how competent he is, but in any case, the most natural thing was for him to answer. Namely, I have been touched by calls from citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who travel low-tariff flights to Sweden and who travel across the border with the Republic of Serbia that the abnormally long retention and harassment of our citizens during the border controls that lasts for several hours, which is certainly a sense of discrimination, especially when it comes to bordering with the Republic of Serbia, that it is mainly about persons of Croatian and Bosniak nationality, and that during the trip to these low-tariff planes, the flights to Sweden are all about the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that these checks, these abuses at border crossings are long-term and that they are unnecessary. I therefore believe that the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministry, or those in charge should, at the very least, introduce reciprocal measures to prevent such harassment of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19577	Thank you. The answer, Minister Crnadak, Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19578	The Honorable Chairman, members of the Kolegijum, honourable MPs. Well, there were about a few questions here. First, as far as crossings towards Serbia are concerned, believe me, even as I've seen it for the first time, I've heard this information. And I have to tell you, I just can't believe that people who are Bošnjak and Hrvat are being held back and that they are being discriminated against. So if you're asking me what if it's true then it's a disaster, but I'm convinced there's no such intention, but here, we don't have that kind of knowledge formally or informally. It's the first time I've heard it from you. As for the other things you mentioned, you probably know that the Šengen countries have brought in certain tightenings when entering their territory and therefore we witness a number of problems, especially during the month of August when the largest flow of people is. And I have to tell you I went to Vienna last week to be an incredible crowd between Croatia and Slovenia, so there are really these problems and they're not directly related to us. We have no information from the Ministry of Security or from the Border Police that it is any intentional further tightening of the controls of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that were the case, if we had information like that, then we could also consider reciprocal measures. At this point, we really don't have that kind of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19579	Thank you, Minister. 17 Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19580	I am fully aware and clear that the more stringent measures of the Schengen Association of States include additional retention of our citizens, however, I am not referring at all to this but to those countries which, despite these additional checks, are holding our citizens back and are additionally asking them, here, when travelling to Sweden, a number of shoes still demand. You have a return card, you have orderly passports, you have where you will be, where you will stay, how long you stay, etc., all this is fine, but these abuses last a few hours which is not acceptable regardless of these additional measures. Do you have any written comments by the citizens, I suppose you don't, since there would be fear in these citizens that there would be additional problems on the next trip. And in the Republic of Serbia, I'll tell you, my friends have traveled several times that have been detained for three hours, border control sends in Belgrade and then expects a response from Belgrade because there are additional checks, etc., which is unacceptable, mainly for citizens of Croatian and Bosniak nationalities when it comes to citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19581	Thank you. I give my word to Agent Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19582	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Respect for you and your deputies, your colleagues, all present in the hall. So, I took advantage of my business right to ask Mr. Adil Osmanović questions, which read – Dear Ministers, is the fact that on 28.08.2017, i.e. 29.08.2017, because there I have a little difference in the seals on the document I have sent to the Minister of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Oleg Butković, notice of legal interference for the construction of the Peljega Bridge? If I am interested – on what grounds did you have the right to do so You, or the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs? I hope you know who is leading foreign policy on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I wonder if you have consulted the BiH Presidency and the BiH Foreign Ministry on this? It is obvious that what you presented on the third page of your letter, and there is something else, is not the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH and that it could not have been because you sent the letter before the 112st session of the BiH Council of Ministers on which the agenda was held – Implementation of the conclusions of the 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 05.07.2017. I remind you that the conclusion was made by the BiH Council of Ministers for the implementation of the same and not by you, and you had no decision from the Council of Ministers, or you did not wait for a meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH. So, in what capacity, on behalf of whom did you send your notice of legal interference to build the Peljega Bridge, please answer me?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19583	Thank you. Answer, BiH Civil Affairs Minister Mr. Osmanović. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19584	Respected chairman, respected members of the College, respected MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, fellow ministers, respected media. On 28.08.2017, I sent a letter to my colleague, Minister Oleg Butković, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. The letter bears the name Notice of legal interference for the construction of the Peljev Bridge. I did not state, and I could not state the position of the BiH Council of Ministers. What I want to point out is that, to my colleague Lovrinović, this is not my first letter to address my colleagues in the neighbourhood, and beyond, in the fields of culture, sport, social policy, and I think that a significant number of my colleagues in their work communicates with resolution ministers, those who are in their jurisdiction, solve certain problems, get information, etc. For the sake of principle, I think you should have asked a question like this before, and to my colleagues, I won't mention it here, but here's the best example of a colleague of Grubeše who also sent a memo on September 1st, and I see that your question was asked on September 6th, so you should have asked him the question as well. Why did I send word to Minister Butković? The Law on Border Control, Article 38(2) stands – The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is responsible for the tasks of diameter, labelling, renewal and maintenance of border markings at the regulated state border, and the preparation of documents on the state border. The Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, set up a body which, together with the competent authorities of neighbouring countries, will carry out the tasks of demarcation and the establishment of a state border, and shall prepare for the conclusion of international agreements on the state border. After statements both you and I could hear from Prime Minister Plenković and counterpart Oleg Butković that they should begin building the Pelješko Bridge And if there were no interference, I thought I'd send this memo of notice to inform them that the issue of the border has not been resolved, first access to the demarcation and then approach, to say, a debate on the construction or not the construction of the Peljega Bridge. [[the speaker is warned on time]] This letter does not have the weight to be discussed by the Council of Ministers, nor the BiH Presidency, this is one well-intentioned announcement by fellow ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that there are legal interferences. Set The question is, on the basis of which documents the Government of the Republic of Croatia raises with the lack of legal interference, i.e. that everything is in line with Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Who and who has guided this document. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19585	Thank you. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19586	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I knew that you would answer that way, and I know that you're cheating, not only you but other ministers with whom you want and you want and by your authority, but you're qualified, on the second and third pages that we mentioned, you didn't give an answer, you said that Bosnia and Herzegovina would step forward, that you would, too, so you made qualifications as if you had a basis in someone's decision. Therefore, you were not the only one who wrote a curtous letter to him in 19 and prescribed with him out of the love you have for him. On the other hand, you've connected what everyone's doing these days, and we're going to have a point today's agenda, a question of boundaries with a bridge that has no direct connection, so. The second thing, they have, they have the data and the facts on which everything was agreed and the requirements of Bosnia and Herzegovina are respected when it comes to building bridges and nothing, so you had no right to write like this, and you were talking about legal qualifications, and you're not the minister of justice. So, what makes you say that? On the other hand, therefore, your party president and member of the Bureau said yesterday how much I am Noticed that, therefore, foreign policy is known who leads on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so you don't run it, that's what he told you. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And I was going to ask, on behalf of the Club, the Council of Ministers to insist, in the first next session, on your letter, that and that about your responsibility if he doesn't do it, we will seek ways to, therefore, raise the question of your responsibility for something you had no right to do. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19587	Thank you. I give the word to Zaim Backović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19588	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome my distinguished colleagues, I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers, I am sorry there are no gentlemen from the Presidency. I'm asking the next question, we're witnessing...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19589	I'm asking the MPs to respect the order. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19590	We are witnessing the frequent arrival of senior officials of neighbouring countries in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Are these official visits bilaterally agreed or visits by invitation or without proper state preparation or self-organised visits? This refers to the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially frequent visits by neighbours from one side, or senior officials from the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, as well as very frequent visits by our officials to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia through comments on television and other media, as an example – Minister of Education of Republika Srpska in official, imagine, a state visit. Is the state behind it? Or, this one and that one on an official visit to the Republic of Croatia. And the top topic is a member of the presidency at the Alkar show. Is that in and on behalf of this country or in and on behalf of itself? And so in turn, I'm going to count it now countless. I'm asking you to answer this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19591	Thank you very much. Since this issue has been raised to the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Security, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, Foreign Ministers, Mr Crnadak. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19592	I thank the honourable MP for asking. Two things here, first, all visits by officials from other countries in which the foreign ministry participates, so the Council of Ministers, are done in a legal manner, are announced in accordance with existing diplomatic practices and these are official state visits. All other visits made differently are not subject to this type of preparation, such an announcement. That's the first thing that matters. In this context, I would ask you that when you take a position on these things not to rely on texts in newspapers and otherwise in the media, you will not be angry with fellow journalists, but often I notice, you would have a lot of work if each time you would deny mistakes in, as I would say, the qualification of visits. To come from myself, most of the visits that, for example, were either towards us or ours outside, which were working characters in that formal sense, are characterized in the media as official, they are official, of course, but there is, that termology is very subtle and sensitive when it comes to it. So, you have to keep an eye on whether someone wrote a state visit or not, I don't think we should waste any time here. What I would like, as a second, to underline, I think we should, this is my position, we did not, of course, discuss it at the Council of Ministers, I think we should stop accepting apriori as negative all other visits that are not strictly protocolal at the level of the states done, especially in the neighborhood. There are many things that bind us, there are far closer relations between state officials, presidents, ministers, government leaders, Council of Ministers, which are much closer and these contacts are more intense than with some distant countries. And we don't need to go straight ahead with the conclusion that such visits are harmful to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is important to see what happens at such events, such visits both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, what are the messages and what are said there. If this is all about our foreign policy, our good neighbourly relations, generally good relations in the region, I don't think we need to react. And in the end, I would also say that as far as the foreign ministry is concerned, we get beyond these official requirements, that it is not, that I am not inconclusive, of course, and that when it is not only a state organisation of certain events, visits, any conferences, gatherings, we engage in protocol every time someone from another country is a certain rank, ministerial or more we engage and protocolly support such a visit, because that is our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19593	Thank you, Minister. Representative's comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19594	Since I set up the Council of Ministers, I expect Mr. Zvizdić to respond to this, too, but okay. Why I have also set up the Presidency, because they are the ones who are working towards the outside, or lead the foreign policy, set it up. I'm very dissatisfied with the answer, and I'm asking that this be delivered to me in writing. Namely, when visits are unilateral and are not announced through state authorities and are performed only by one ethno-national group they have a completely different sound and it is without dilemma. I'll tell you, I did a little bit, before I decided to ask this question I reviewed what's going on in the environment. The Hrvat live very much in Hungary, but these kinds of visits are impossible. The Srbin live very much in Hungary, but these kinds of visits are 21 impossible. Hrvat live in Austria, these kinds of visits are impossible, Srbin live in Austria, like this The types of visits are impossible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I'm talking about state officials, ministers, prime ministers, members of parliaments and so on. It is possible only in a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina In Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbs, Hrvat and Bošnjak live constitutionally and live under the Constitution of Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak entities. [[Gorenik is warned on time]] Therefore, one ethno-national group cannot be operated Thank you. [[Gorenik is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19595	Thank you very much. Here, we've exhausted oral representation issues with this. Let's move on to the agenda on the change and addition of the session's agenda, and I'd like to point out the following. From the agenda of the session, at the request of the Constitutional Legal Committee, the following point 5 has been removed: Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1- 1610/17, of 04.07.2017. (second reading), shortened procedure, due to the absence of the applicant. Point 8. Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-1611/17, dated 04.07.2017. Points 3, 5 and 6 have been completed, and are now read as follows: point 3. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-02-1-1348/17 of 26.05.2017. (second reading) Point 5. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of Opinions on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Election Law of BiH – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1074/17, of 21.04.2017. (first reading) Point 6. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Penal Code of BiH – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1503/17, since 15.06.2017. (first reading) Since the College of the House of Representatives at the 53rd session, held on 25.07.2017, approved the request of the Constitutional Commission for the extension of the deadline for the delivery of Opinions to the Bill on the Completion of the Election Law of BiH – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1074/17, from 21.04.2017 and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Criminal Law of BiH – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1503/17, from 15.06.2017, to the next session of the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission session was not held until today's House session due to the lack of quorum, so at the moment the College proposes that these two draft laws be removed from the agenda of this session. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19596	It's not the law, it's the setting of deadlines.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19597	Well, here's a proposal point, here's a reference to the law. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19598	I thank the chairman. I have just come forward for this reason, so to point out, as chairman of the committee, that the Rules of Procedure allow the House to declare a new deadline when the commission does not give an opinion until an initial deadline. However, as you have rightly noted, this first deadline is up until the next session of the commission that is still going on, given that the session of the commission, the next 51st, has not yet been held, we can say that it is in progress, and given the lack of quorum, and at the very moment when it occurred, when these two points were to be considered, i.e. this point 5 and point 6. Therefore, I believe that there is a more appropriate business intervention here that there are no conditions for the House to declare itself on this matter at all, but that these two points cannot be in this form at all on the agenda, so they should now be taken down and there is nothing here for the House to plead, because the commission has not yet completed its next session, as it is clearly stated within the original deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19599	Thank you very much. Here's the deal, of course, with the College. If the MPs asked for a statement, that is why we have made a statement, but of course this is totally acceptable and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Representative Sadik Ahmetović reported on the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19600	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, guests. I will propose two points of the agenda in this debate, I would like to suggest that today we make a decision to disband this Parliament and this Council of Ministers in view of the situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, which could be supported from these parliamentary issues and the answers that we could hear... the state we are in. Given that we were on these annual holidays, I thought that today's session of the BiH Parliament would be abundantly rich in the proposal of laws and other acts that are also in the exposé of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and in the work plan of both this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, given our key foreign-political objectives, which is the entry into the European Union. In this regard, I propose a agenda point – Information by the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić, on the current state of affairs and the BiH Council of Ministers' relationship to the BiH Parliament, and on the attitude towards the parliamentary majority. 23 So, the explanation is clear, we had a report at the previous session, it didn't go through, we now have a stalemate in the work of parliamentary committees and we have the agenda of this today as we do and probably with a tendency to be even worse in the next period. The second item of the agenda, given that a year and a few days ago, I proposed that information be found in this House on the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a focus on language study, to this day or on the agenda of the BiH Parliament, and the problems kids have today are the same problems that no one in Bosnia and Herzegovina has solved when it comes to language study. To make hope a little better, I heard a few days ago that somewhere in Maglaj, in Bocinja, a Serbian language study in the Federation of BiH began, while we have a complete denial and ban on Bosnian language study in Republika Srpska. Thank you very much, you'll get these suggestions on... _________(?) An hour's break. I suggest you give the Council of Ministers an hour's rest and an opportunity to prepare...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19602	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović reported for the debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19603	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I also tried on the College in the extended composition to, for the second time in this term, propose one item of the agenda that would be called – the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which would therefore give the conclusion that: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the occasion of 23 August of the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes would express compassion and piety against these victims, and tasked the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for a maximum period of 30 days the text of the girls that would include the relationship of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the following acts: 1. Council of Europe Resolution 1096 of 1996 on measures to depose the former totalitarian communist regimes, 2. Council of Europe Resolution 1481 of 2006 condemning communist crimes, 3. The European Parliament resolution of April 02, 2009 on European conscience and totalitarianism, so that I don't read this number now I'll take a lot of time, and then I'll tell you my colleague Magazinović after you're interested in something special. This, therefore, I hope, is the second time I propose it, or Mr Predrag Kožul, I have heard that these initiatives have been before, but this Parliament has never been manifested by these documents, and so much is our concern for the emergence of fascism, nationalism, for defending the gains of anti-fascism, for, I don't know what not, human rights, there we, there is no Parliament I think, in this region that deals more with these issues than this one deals with ours. And here, for 24 years, we cannot, therefore, be seen according to what we are seeking, to the European Union. So, I suggest the agenda point, of course, I suggest this conclusion, and I hope that this time my colleagues will have the courage to calculate ourselves with this system, as one of my colleagues said, now I tell Magazinovic, a variety of real self-proclaimed anti-fascists would prefer to declare all these victims to be enemies of the people and thus justify their own crimes or those initiated by their ideology, so I'd rather do so and nothing happened, everything was... There's also a greeting here with the Ustasha greeting of fellow SDP colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19604	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19605	I thank the chairman. With regard to what Mr Lovrinović said that he and his colleague Kožul had already delivered something similar to that in the initiative, this, I remind you, given that you had delivered the falsified or at least at least the wrong texts of the resolutions, the supposed Council of Europe, which you and your colleague Kožul last admitted, you said that you had picked it up on the Internet somewhere, I don't think there are any conditions for us to declare today about this initiative until we really check that there are any of these Council of Europe resolutions that you state in the initiative, whether they exist under that and that number or you picked up something on the Internet again, this, so that this should go to the very least in the regular procedure. And this is also some thing that you might even have to find at the Constitutional Commission session, and I was going to say it's a surprise that you didn't suggest it there, but then I remembered that, here, three last times you don't show up to Mr. Lovrinović at the Constitutional Commission sessions, I can't quorum to set up for HDZ and SDS or what this is called the Change Alliance, uh, so maybe this is something you need, if you show up, if you ever decide to show up at a session of the Constitutional Commission, and the last four times this week you haven't been, maybe it's a more appropriate forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19606	Thank you. Correction of false allegations, violation of the Rules of Procedure, Predrag Kožul. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19607	Since we are talking about the agenda point proposed by my colleague Lovrinović, it makes no sense that my colleague Arnaut here is calling for the material that was the subject of our proposal for the agenda point about a year ago, it is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The agenda point proposed by fellow Lovrinović is very clear, he read it and here in the debate on the agenda can only be discussed about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19608	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19609	The Rules of Procedure make it very clear that when an MP calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he says the correct member of the Rules of Procedure to which he is called. Predrag Kožul didn't do it, and I invite you to determine that he's actually in breach of the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19610	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19611	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So the material I really didn't suggest, so this isn't the first time that initiatives go without material, because this is about initiative, the agenda point, and it's about something that's just going to give us, so the material, or what we're going to discuss with the Council of Ministers, that's the proposal. I figured the material you had last time, so just a year ago, it's enough that I don't have to repeat it, from what we've corrected was a mistake. So you said exactly, we fixed it and said that this material was wrong, these documents exist. And in the end, if they don't exist, they'll tell the Council of Ministers that there isn't, that I was making things up, so I expect them to answer. And when it comes to being able to take a regular route, I don't know how the House is going to plead today, I'm calling for us to finally come to terms with it, so we accept it, whether it's today or tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, I don't know, but we're close to August 23rd when it's that day. And on the other hand, Mr. Arnaut, I'm not going to come to the Constitutional Commission that you're making appointments for your whim. So, on the first official call as it goes through the Rules of Procedure, I'm not, objectively prevented, and after that, you've made an appointment as you wish, in one day of two sessions, so make as many appointments as you like, so I, I'm your deputy, so it would be fine if you could consult me, even if you were to consult me that you were going to schedule a session today, so can you, Mr. Deputy? But you make the appointment as you wish, so please do as you wish, and you had a quorum in the first session, and I don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19612	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19613	I would first ask my colleague Lovrinović to calm down and concentrate, he says – we are close to August 23rd. As far as I'm concerned, it's August.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19614	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19615	And we're close on the other side, so we have another year until that 23rd August you're talking about, right? 26
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19616	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19617	Oh, good. Secondly, you, as chairman of the Joint Committee on European Integration, should know the difference between the Council of Europe and the European Union and I believe you have mastered it. We are a member of the Council of Europe, and we are not a member of the European Union. And if we are referring to Council of Europe resolutions they are automatically in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you are calling for European Union resolutions, then you should talk about it. You were talking about Council of Europe resolutions. And in the end, it would be really good if you wanted to push this further, to respect the attitude of your fellow Arnaut not to go back with the forgeries but with the originals, and then we can keep talking. But for starters, calm down, and we'll talk further.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19618	Thank you. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19619	A fellow Lovrinovic, the power of the decibals never meant the strength of the arguments, so when you talk about it and talk freely about it. Secondly, it's not bad to remember a few basic facts. So, the facts are that in local areas where HDZ has absolute authority there are still streets that bear the names of fascists, or Ustasha criminals who are responsible for both Jasenovac and other terrible World War II sites. As for the Bosnian-Herzegovic anti-fascist, it is not bad to remind you that they were an integral part of the World Anti-Fascist Coalition and, as such, a recognition from the United States, Great Britain and beyond. So, don't open any partial questions, it's not history on these premises started in 1945, someone formed some puppet states and in '41, made genocides, terrible crimes, etc. I thought you wanted to condemn it too, so it'd be some whole project, because our history backwards when you look at it is full of human rights violations. So slowly with that, don't get too nervous, for starters, it won't work out for you here today, and that's what arguments need to be discussed, not populist.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19620	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegations, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19621	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Lovrinović for finally realizing in the last year of his term of office that the chairman, publicly argued, that the chairperson of the committee should agree with his deputies on the term of holding sessions in the way that he and all other committees are doing, as Mr Radmanović also warned him once or twice by telling him – it is not normal and it is not natural that your deputy asks you to inform her of your activities that you are doing without knowledge and the first and second deputy, so both me and Mr Tadić. And I'm so happy that you finally realized today in a conversation with Mr. Arnaut 27 yes, although I'm not his lawyer absolutely, but he told the truth. I think the commission's college is supposed to be agreeing on everything together. In the way that Mrs. Majkić and I agree absolutely on everything, when it comes to the session, I think that the Commission for European Integration can also agree and the Constitutional Commission. And I thank you for, therefore, deciding in the last year of your term, you have probably decided to start applying the rules of the agreement, because only a stable house can rest on the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19622	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19623	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I don't think it would be fair if this story went away without me, given that I'm a great opponent of totalitarian regimes and communism, and then it wouldn't really be right if I didn't say one word of this. First of all, I don't know where someone's bringing a fight against fascism in relation to communism, that maybe it wasn't communism that abolished fascism. So, no, these two colleagues have nothing to do with it, even assuming that you inherit communism, which, of course, is not true, but here's how we allow it, I can't allow it, nor can I accept the accuracy of the assumption that these two have such connections that the maltene that there was no communism would not have fallen. And we know who made the biggest contribution just to bringing down fascism. Of course, as much as I'm against communism, I'm twice as much against fascism, so that someone else wouldn't think of me now, what I said, to be clear about it right now. As far as my colleague Lovrinović's initiative is concerned, it is a sweet initiative to me that I am not sure that we can come to conclusions based on this initiative that the two of us would agree with, let alone those who are against the initiative. That's why I have a reserve to deal with this at Parliament, if anything at least at this stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19624	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19625	Okay, I'll start with this last thing Mr. Novaković said. So I suggested one conclusion that I'm willing to change to good suggestions, so it's not at all controversial and ultimately he's in charge of the Council of Ministers and then they'd see what they'd deliver to us. When it comes to, therefore, Mr. Magazinović, that's why I said that the Council of Ministers would tell us all about it, I didn't deliver any material this time counting on you to have the one who called you a forger. _________(?) 28 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, there you are. So, I'm only going with the agenda initiative, the initiative to get the Council of Ministers to prepare a document for us. So don't put anything I didn't say. Mr Bećirović, therefore, I don't know if Sultan Ahmed is an anti-fascist in Bulgaria but he probably isn't, I don't know, a humanitarian worker, and Busuladžić is in Sarajevo, etc. So it's not the subject of this debate. So I don't know what you're trying to get me into here. And you said well I don't want to discuss it that way at all, and I'm ready, I told you once, about everything you're saying. And then I'm just going to say this, so there's only one alternative, or we're going to keep it quiet, possibly begging for victims and perpetrators of crime, or we're going to have to bring objective truth to the sun. It cannot be tolerated in a democratic society the practice of having someone wash their consciences for crimes committed through the relativisation of committed evils, crimes committed and through the justification of post-war crimes for any high purpose. And, Mrs. Kapetanović, I did not comment on Mr. Arnaut's first call to the Constitutional Commission because what's okay, I was talking about his initiative to continue the story that at any cost comes to this session with a solution from the Constitutional Commission. I was talking about it that we should consult. And, of course, I don't mind consulting either on the first call to the session, and when I try to consult you, you always have an extraordinary excuse not to call, not to come to the session, let alone agree with me on the activities of the Committee for European Integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19627	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Sadik Ahmetov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19628	I was never a member of the Alliance of Communists, nor father, nor grandfather, and I don't know if anyone in that line was a member of the Alliance of Communists and very... define what totalitarian regimes are. But, Mr. Lovrinović, I think it would be more correct to reach the conclusion that we pass the lustration law. Probably a part of the people who sit here wouldn't be sitting here, a part of the people who rule this country wouldn't rule this country. Today, this country is mainly run by children of communists or former communists. So that's the real truth. Define what the totalitarian regime is, whether it is the regime and Ante Pavelić, and Busuladžić, and this, and the ones that are the regimes. Maybe we should invite Zlatko Hasanbegović... to explain. You probably have some better connections with him, I really don't have any. So we're entering something that's just an empty story. A specific story is what some post-Communist countries have already done, and that's the Lustration Act. They would have lost half the police, half the parliament, no presidency, and probably half the Council of Ministers. Well, then that would be a problem. How to overcome this problem that until the elections we have governments, parliaments, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19629	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Mirsad Mešić. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19630	Madam Chairman, you won't be mad at me, but I am giving up the debate because of my mental hygiene, i.e. the nonsense initiated by Mr. Lovrinović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19631	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19632	I'm glad this is what we're talking about and it starts talking about this way. A fellow dear totalitarian regimes such as any, anywhere, in any period of time, in a historical context should be condemned, only we must not ignore the fact that communism has won Fascism but communism has also done to defeat fascism. It's a big difference that it's not only communism, it's communism. It wouldn't be bad to look at that Jalte painting and who's sitting there. The greatest dictator of probably the 20th century, but he also defeated fascism. On the other hand, I can't help but tell Mr. Lovrinović, a colleague when a man of burnt skin, broken bones, or two Dragica Pravica and Džavid Haverić, and those in front of parents are executed and shot at Vraci is then from a regime called Ustaški. And they can't, their biological followers can't accept going to the streets of those who ironed them, peeling their skins, breaking them and finally shooting them, as well as the citizens of Sarajevo where the complete woodwork of the building on the Marijin-Dvor, which was the task of the current hotel Zagreb, formerly, I apologize, is not yet there, so this tree line to the barracks, which was then a barracks, former barracks of Maršal Tito. commit to the most respected citizens of Sarajevo. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's from the regime, but from the regime they were in, I'm not running away from it, and Busuladžić. And I am absolutely against it, and I will bet, and I and everything that is in my generation, against Busuladžić, and not only Busuladžić, I will... you will know the efendija Handžić and in order. So we should do a conviction of a crime in totalitarian... _________(?) ZAIM [[no microphone turned on]] Tito, crime, I'm talking about crimes. And what about Tito? The Croatian people should build a monument for him. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Read [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19634	Thank you. Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19635	Dear Mr. Lovrinović, I compliment you, I congratulate you that you finally realized that you should start applying the right deal as it is, here, 30 I mentioned my dear colleague Majkić, and you then ungentlemanically state the truth at the expense of me absolutely challenged. I once again tell you one time we have heard from each other for this many terms of office, trying to solve the problem of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association, and I remind you that you and Mr Radmanović have two, perhaps three, times and Mr Genjac have warned of the fact that you and Mr Tadić, as your deputies, never consult me for anything. That's the first thing. And secondly, once again, I'm telling you that you have made a false claim that I am inaccessible, I am available whenever I am within the limits of my ability to answer if my phone is on. And I don't really want to justify myself to you, but you have a problem inside your service because your secretaries have admitted that their failure or error did not send me calls. I am sorry that Mr. Bojić, an esteemed colleague, chaired by the Human Rights Commission, is not here to confirm that you have several times scheduled meetings at the same time as the Human Rights Commission, although they had the right..., although the Commission for Human Rights has first scheduled its commission at the same time you have scheduled committees for European integration. Very difficult to... be at the same time in two places. I always go to that committee that I was first invited to. And I gave you a compliment and you criticized me, but in any case live you were also healthy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19636	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19637	Live and sound.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19638	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19639	I thank the chairman. A kolegica of Kapetanović is absolutely right, she gave Mr. Lovrinovic an argument, but you have put him to pain whether, uh, to accept that argument or to admit that he did not come to the Constitutional Commission to not discuss these drafts of the law. And Mr. Lovrinović played it honestly, he admitted that the real reason for his failure to come to the Constitutional Commission was so as not to discuss these laws with colleagues Bećirović. Here, air-conditioned,...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19640	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19641	The chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19642	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19643	Thank you. As for, uh, these initiatives, etc., I think one thing you all need to understand is that as long as we have a situation where SDA and HDZ, who are in power in the Federation of Malta 31 from the war to this day, can't even paint what Tito and Austria have done, I don't think we have the conditions for resolutions and declarations of this guy I thank.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19644	Thank you. Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19645	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, I tell you the truth, I don't know if this is the correcting of the wrong allegation, but I want to express my surprise but at the same time to invite all of us in Parliament to compete, to put topics into debate on this Parliament, of which the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be much better off than they are today. I've got a lot to talk about about individuals and families from which I come and exactly specific names. And today I meet these people, but it doesn't occur to me to discuss these things. It is my chance to discuss the situation of economic improvement, living conditions, building this country, becoming a credible state, not just in the environment, but to be as soon as possible and a member of the European Union. I therefore appeal to all of us here to compete in proposals that will contribute to improving the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not to say that this issue is not important, but I think there are a number of other issues that we should all stand for before this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19646	Thank you. Discussion on the agenda, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19647	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. My comment is on point 3. Point 3 refers to a statement by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control. So, we passed the law in our first reading, and now we're extending the deadline for the amendment. Why do I think this is wrong? I remind you that we reached a conclusion on the formation of this commission in October 2015, so the next month will be two years as the commission was formed, whose deadline in the decision was to finish its work within 60 days. And now after two years again, here soon two years, we'll be extending the deadline again. What is it that cannot be arranged by any change in time? This is a bad intention in the sense that the parliamentary commission proposes that independent bodies be placed in its focus and under its control. It's going to be very bad, and it's not possible in the end. The audit office knows who it is... no committee of parliament can audit the audit office. Also, no commission can go to the Central Bank of BiH and conduct an analysis of the work of officials and staff of the Central Bank, which we have already received a memo as I hear it. Thus, this Law is problematic in its primary purpose. Parliament's control function should be present and it is not now disabled. Why isn't it working? These are other things we should talk about, why Parliament does not perform its control function. But the adoption of this Law, which is actually from the proposal to be a law that will only apply to the control of defence and security 32 turned into a law that controls everything and everyone without exception, has led us to two years of being unable to end it. And extending this deadline doesn't mean we're gonna make it. So I suggest not to accept this extension, but to have the commission stop its work because we have all the elements to achieve what is proposed in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19648	Thank you. We're going to discuss this when we make a statement on this point 3. At this point, I don't see anyone applying for a debate on the agenda anymore. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Let's get to the suggestions. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović proposed two points of the agenda. One is to include in today's agenda a point – the information of BiH Prime Minister Denis Zvizdić's Presidency on the current state and the relationship between the BiH Council of Ministers to Parliament and the attitude towards the parliamentary majority. The second point is – Information on the application of the Framework Law on Basic and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a focus on language learning. I'd remind the MP to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Article 71 says – at the beginning of the session of the House, a representative and any authorised applicant shall have the right to request that an optional item be omitted and a new one be proposed with the relevant material in writing. We don't have absolutely any material related to these points right now, and we only have the titles of the point. And at this point...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19649	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19650	Just a moment to finish, at this point we have no factual elements to vote on. But here's the thing, since the MP called and let's hear what he's trying to tell us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19651	If you take a stenogram with these... questions and answers you don't need a better explanation that we need to discuss, so we can do this quickly. So, you've seen that we have a million problems in this country, and we don't know if we have a parliamentary majority or if we don't have, or how we think in this year and a few days to push through what is the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am saying this from a point of view to help the process of better life in this country and its faster path towards the European Union. When it comes to the second question, I don't know, you consult with the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19652	We've consulted. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19653	Well, consult. Why wasn't the agenda I initiated a year ago on the agenda? Why does the Council of Ministers have no information? So, a year ago she was sent to the procedure. So now we have problems with the same ones that violate the basic human rights of children attending school when it comes to learning their native language. The easiest thing to do is to work at the Council of Ministers when you go around problems and we talk about the hollow story to the public, and about the specific things, the specific issues that the citizens of this country all skip out and nobody solves them. So that's two things. You go public and say this isn't current and that this isn't what I suggested to this country, I don't have a problem talking about it today, or you say that maybe this is the policy that's worse.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19654	Thank you very much. As far as this proposal is concerned, that is, this initiative we have made, here, and consultations after your position. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, this point couldn't be on the agenda, but we're going to put her on the polls in the College. As for the initiative of MPs, Mr Lovrinović, it has both the reasons and this material, and is required only by the Council of Ministers, so that the House will also declare itself on this agenda point. There were no other proposals besides the distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić, but we will explain it through the debate, so there was no concrete proposal to withdraw, it was narrow, in a way, a comment in this style. Here, I'm calling on the MPs now to come forward with the initiatives. First, we declare ourselves according to the order of the proposal to include the information on the agenda of this session, i.e. the item of the agenda of the honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović, which reads: – Information from BiH Prime Minister Denis Zvizdić Presidency on the current state and relationship of the BiH Council of Ministers to Parliament, as well as from the parliamentary majority. Here, please let us make a statement. Of the 39 present – for 23, against 12, abstentions 4. The Federation of BiH – 17 for, 6 against, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 6 for, 6 against, no abstentions. So there's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the information of BiH Prime Minister Denis Zvizdić's Presidency on the current state and relationship of the BiH Council of Ministers to Parliament, and the attitude towards the parliamentary majority is the point of today's session of the agenda. I ask the service to be classified in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in order of the agenda item. The second proposal is to include a point in today's session, i.e. the agenda of today's session – Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a focus on native language study. We put this proposal to a vote. Of the 39 present – for 24, against 13, they were retained 2. The Federation of BiH – 23 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 11 against, no abstentions. There is a general but there is no entity majority. 34 Shall we agree or later? I'll be right there. Okay. We're going to the second round of voting on this agenda item. Of the 39 present – for 25, against 12, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 24 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 1 for, 11 against, no abstentions. There is a general majority, the entity majority, so there is no 2/3 in Republika Srpska against. So the decision wasn't made. We move to the third initiative, it is the initiative of MP Nikola Lovrinović, who suggests that a point called the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes will be placed in the agenda of the 51st session of the House of Representatives and adopted the conclusion, so that we may not repeat it, or if we should read it. You don't have to. I call upon you to plead. Of the 39 present – for 7, versus 28, abstention 4. The Federation of BiH – 4 for, 22 against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 3 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions. There's no general majority. So this initiative, or proposal to join the agenda of today’s session, did not receive the necessary majority. And I further conclude that, in accordance with our proposal on the agenda, points 5 and 6, we do not declare them and they are not on the agenda of today's session of the agenda. I ask the service that, by respecting all this which we have declared and this finding, to make us a draft agenda according to order. And I think maybe by the time we get it, since it exists, we could take a short break of 10 minutes, or we could go like this since we have... I hope the services will be...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19655	... You're just skipping these... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19656	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19657	And this point is added to this, this first initiative...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19658	So we're going to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 50th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Parliamentary House of Representatives You've got the record. Any objections? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this point. 35 Passing... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19665	I thank the chairman. So, the record page three, it says that the chairman, then Mr. Džaferović, quoted him as saying, noted, that the Constitutional Commission has made a failure. I remember this very well, Mr. Džaferović did not say that. Mr. Džaferović is a member of the Constitutional Commission and if there were any failure, I am sure he would have mentioned it on the Constitutional Legal Commission. So, this part of the sentence just doesn't match what Mr. Džaferović said. Unfortunately, the services have not yet prepared a stenogram until the beginning of this session, so I'm just asking that this section be deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19666	Here, before we say, before, of course, the pleas, let our services check. If it's consistent with the stenogram, of course it should be in the record. So as it is in the stenogram let's check it out, so let's see. Second, there are no reports, so we're closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure, until this session of the House, questions and initiatives in writing were asked by representatives: Damir Arnaut asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Finance and Treasury, Minister of Communications and Transport, Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Minister of Security, Civil Affairs, members of the Central Election Commission, Secretary of the Joint Committee of Human Rights of the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH and Secretary of the Joint Service of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; Mirsad Đonlagić asked the President of the Council of Ministers; Saša Magazinović asked the President of the Committee for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH, the Chairman of the Commission for concessions, the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Gasal-Vražalica and Transport and Director of the Border Service of BiH; Damir Bećirović asked the President of the Committee for the Conservation of Communications and Transport of BiH; Nikola Lovrinović. The following answers were delivered to today's session: to the question of Zaim Backović, placed in oral form at 44th session, the answer was delivered by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and asked in oral form to the 45th session of the Council of Ministers followed by the reply of the Ministry of Communications and Transport to the question of Miroslav Milovanović, which was placed in written form at 46th session, the answer was delivered by the Council of Ministers; the question of the representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica Act of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by Mr. Mirsal-Vražica, the question of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of MinistersMagazinović the question was asked in writing in the form of the 48th session; the answer was sent to the question of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministers of Statistics, the Council of BiH, the Council of BiH, the Council of BiH addressed the question in writing in writing on the answer to the answer to the question of the Mensure Beganović; the answer to the question of the Ministers of the Ministers of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of BiH; the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Demirović of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Safer of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the European Parliament of Justice of Justice of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European State of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of National monuments ofBiH ; to the question of Representative MirsadĐonlagić , Mešić was asked in writing at the 40thsession , the answer was delivered by the BiH ForeignMinistry ; to the question of the representative PredragKožul , who was asked in writing at the 41stsession , by the BiH Council ofMinisters ; to the question Amir MPs AleksandraFazlić , who was asked in Nikola Lovrinović at the 49thsession , was delivered by the BiH Council ofMinisters ; to the question of MP ŠemsudinMehmedović , who was asked in writing at the 50thsession , the response was delivered by the Council ofMinisters. Does anyone want to comment on the answer? Representative Mirsad Mešić called for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19668	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since there is no Minister Borovac, I will use myself to comment on my answer next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19669	Thank you very much. Further to comment, Damir Bećirović can I help you, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19670	I will comment on the non-response, meaning in the plural, because, firstly, I have not yet received the response of Minister Grubeša after two and more months concerning the war crimes committed in Central Bosnia and the killing of the driver of the humanitarian convoy from Tuzla. So I didn't get an answer about it, and what's even more interesting is that, although the business deadline has expired, I got a response from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, and it also concerns the Peljega Bridge. I have to read 39 questions because these are simply important topics, important questions to be answered and should contain information, one of these three, four, I don't know which more, information from the Ministry of Communications and Traffic that has been delivered. So, it is about answering me – how many meetings with the topic of building the Pelješko Bridge were held by representatives of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the replacement of Minister Slavko Matanović? Who are the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 01.12.2015 to 01.08.2017, and who were held with representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 01.12.2015 to 01.08.2017, and to provide me with a reply to the act of Minister Matanović, the number and the number, from 20.07.2015, as regards the request of Minister Matanović sent to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia, if any? What is symptomatic is that no information we received from the Ministry of Communications and Transport mentions the act of Minister Matanović, who asks Croatia to appoint its members in the working group. No mention of the acts previously proposed by the Ministry, even by Mr Hadžić, mentions the act of Mr Lagumdžija who has also asked for certain things concerning the Peljega Bridge and then we have statements that, I don't know how to call them, the Minister of Communication and Transport, comes out and says that for 10 years no one has done anything but him on the Peljega Bridge, and on the other hand you have acts that are available to everyone and that we will certainly have more opportunities to talk about on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19671	Thank you Zaim Backović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19672	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At the very least, I expected that, given the precise data, the question I asked about the total funds collected for road construction, or road construction, would be very quickly delivered. At the first stage, I was told that it was impossible and that it was not true what I was saying about this pay phone, among other things, the total excise duty. After answering the I.D., it turned out that I said practically in one fening exact figure. I've been able to collect the data myself until that year since he gave me the I.D. They have given since 2007, and funds have been raised since 1996, total assets. Also, funds allocated from the budget, credit funds etc., I said one digit here, and everyone said it wasn't true. I insist that you, as the leadership of this House, ask the authorities to provide us with an answer. Why is it that the public has no right to know how much funds have been spent so far in road construction or at least where these funds have been spent? It's not about fening or a million, it's about billions, and it's fair that citizens, whose pockets it was taken from, know where the funds went, because they're looking for funds still on the other side. It's very interesting that what I'm saying now I'm saying, by the total amount of funds we could rebuild, I'm saying infrastructureally, by the roads, all the roads and build about 400 kilometers of highways, and at the prices of the most difficult shares. Where are the funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19673	Thank you very much. 40 As far as questions are concerned, here I will remind you of Article 171, because you said, paragraph (4), means if a representative asks a question and asks an answer in writing to make a statement, according to the Rules of Procedure, whether he is satisfied or not. If it is not satisfied with the answer, it may also ask an additional parliamentary question in writing. As for the College, the College will address these issues and all others in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Let's go to the next question, Mensura Beganović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19674	I thank the chairman and welcome all those present, if I have my word, there have been comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19675	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19676	So, I will a little comment on this response to the initiative of my colleague, Safer Demirović, and myself, regarding the adoption of orders, i.e. legal regulations regarding the use, that is, import and use of equipment in a potentially explosive atmosphere. This is just one of the reasons why I wanted to actually refer to my previous questions which I referred to the respected Minister Šarović, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, who always touched the same stories in the answers, the same reason why something was not done, why there is no, why we do not have a quality strategy, quality structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina, why we do not have food control laboratories, imported or exported, it is quite all the same, we have to protect, first of all, our citizens. This issue of legislation that allows the import of installation equipment, specifically in mines where it is most interesting, which was stopped in 2010 when it stopped, stopped the work of the Technical Committee to comply with the rules of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the drafts that were prepared, all the contributions that were prepared were stopped, so seven, eight years ago. We're waiting for something, we don't know what we're waiting for, we're waiting for either that committee to actually start working, or that Republika Srpska finally doesn't hold the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina hostage to its policy that says that the quality structure within Republika Srpska can develop on its own, as if the state were in the state, and that's what they're really showing, because they've solved those problems that remain in the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I ask the Honorable Minister Šarović that, if he can in any way, we can overcome this problem in any other way but it really takes too long for this problem and we have, both in importing and exporting food and non-food products and technical products, problems that are related to non-existentness, both strategies, how the development of infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina is about the quality control of products, as well as access to the funds of European pre-accession funds that are blocked, among other things, and because of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19677	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19678	I thank the chairman. 41 You have read that I have received a question from the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, the answer to the question, and it is partly true, because in my question I asked the Honorable Minister Osmanović, and I ask that the stenogram be delivered to his service because I also mentioned it at the last session, also in connection with the affair of Croatian woman Livno, who was approved by 100,000 KM, while, for example, the Royal Sutjesca was approved by the same Ministry of 1,000 KM, and I do not know why the public is not available on the website, on the website of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and here is not the Minister Osmanović to deliver the Commission's report on the work that has been verified, or those applications that have arrived at the Ministry of Fight, that the public sees how certain associations that are held close to political leadership in Bosnia and Herzegovina are approved. So through the Commission report, the public would know exactly how to manage the money of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I once again appeal to the Ministry of Civil Affairs to provide me with a full answer along with the Commission's report on the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19679	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, comment Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19680	I received an answer to the question I addressed in writing to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations from the Council of Ministers after exactly 7 months and 6 days. With some answers, and I can, given the new circumstances within the subject of the issue, be satisfied, but with the deadline I certainly cannot, because the answer to that question for me had an effective effect only within that business deadline. I might not have been up because of this brief comment, but rather motive for me to point out that I have not received a written answer to the questions I have referred to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for almost a year, as regards the processing of war crimes in precisely numbered camps and prisons. The answer to that question is very important to me so that, as representatives, we can look at the activities of the prosecution inside, here, about these very sensitive issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19681	Thank you very much. I don't see it, and Agent Damir Arnaut, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19682	I thank the chairman. It's been a really long time since last session of the House of Representatives, so I've had a really big, unusually large number of answers from the Council of Ministers. What is not unusual is that I am not satisfied with either one of them by collectively announcing asking additional parliamentary questions to all those, to all these submitted answers. And I will only touch on a response from the Justice Ministry that I am not only satisfied with, but even deeply concerned with, since I asked what the Justice Ministry is planning to do, that is, whether the Ministry of Justice is planning to propose amendments and additions to the relevant legal solutions, including the BiH Criminal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH and the events of some others, if necessary, in order to prevent the convicted, legally convicted of violating 42 members of 162.b) of the BiH Criminal Law, which specifically concerns going to a foreign wartime, from going to prison. So, we have a situation that someone who is legally convicted of this act can now delay serving a sentence. The BiH Justice Ministry has said it does not plan to submit changes because it concerns human rights convicted even by this member. I'm convinced it's completely wrong and the answer and the approach and that you can find the modeality. In any case, it really concerns this kind of response from the Justice Department when it comes to convicted of going to foreign wars, convicted, therefore, to prison sentences which currently allow the legislation to delay, to delay execution, to go to the execution of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19683	Thank you. I don't see any more comments. We're moving on to three agendas, Ad. 3. Declaration by the House of Representatives on the setting of a new deadline for the delivery of the Report on the Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, since 26.05.2017. (second reading) The draft law was removed from the agenda of last session of the House at the request of the competent constitutional committee. On 6 September 2017, the Constitutional Commission again requested the extension of the deadline for the delivery of the report by 30 days. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19685	I thank the chairman, So, the reason why the House declares a new deadline is that once already at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the College extended the deadline for a statement, and this time, this is the second time, the College does not have the possibility to set a new deadline, but the Rules of Procedure require that the House be decided or, and this is very important, on setting a new deadline or suspending the legislative procedure. The only reason why we are in a situation today, which is why we are facing the possibility of suspending the legislative procedure on this exceptional law is because the motionary, or representative, Mr. Borislav Bojić, as chairman of the committee responsible did not appear at the session of the Constitutional Commission, has not announced his failure, although I have also checked it, neatly sent a letter to his name and to his office as chairman, the Interim Commission of both homes for the making of this Law. I think that, at the very least, Mr Bojić has an obligation to explain, when he has not already done so according to the competent Commission who called him as a representative to appear and explain the bill, although it was, however, a second attempt by the Constitutional Commission to give an opinion on this Bill, Mr Bojić, at the very least, has an obligation to address the House and explain why Dom 43 has brought the whole to the situation today to declare either a new deadline or, as I have already said, suspend the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19686	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19687	Thank you, Chairman. So, in some ways, the addition to what Mr. Arnaut said means the addition of what we discussed today at some points of the agenda when it comes to the work of the Constitutional Commission. In fact, when it was renewed on the president's proposal, the invitation to continue the session, three times, could therefore have been avoided from this point... on the agenda of this session, how many times did the president call it. But he didn't do it, and he only did it for those two points that we discussed, so just a simple supplement, so he could have done it, maybe it could have been avoided, maybe Mr. Bojić would have shown up and he probably knew about the sequels I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19688	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19689	I thank the chairman. If I may ask you or the Secretary of the House to arrange a short course for Mr Lovrinović when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. You, as chairman, know very well that whenever any commission discusses a given item of the agenda, executes, conducts a vote on this item of the agenda, as we have done on this issue, this Law on Parliamentary Oversight, where the Constitutional Commission voted, has declared whether to conduct the debate or to request a new deadline. The majority in that Commission, and this was not a unanimous decision, was decided by the majority of the members of the Commission to request a statement from the House on a new deadline or to suspend the legislative procedure. This is the point of the agenda at that session of the Commission, which is a session of the Commission on the first day, for which you just told Mr Lovrinović that it was not a controversial term for you, at that session of the Commission the debate on that point was concluded. The Commission adopted a majority of votes conclusion and I, as chairman of the Commission, was obliged to sign that conclusion and send it to the College of the House, which I did. And indeed, Mr. Lovrinović, I suggest you see with the secretary that maybe some course organizes for you on the matter of Rules of Procedure to avoid such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19690	Thank you. 44 I ask the representatives not to comment on anything that is inappropriate. As far as education on the Rules of Procedure may be concerned, and it is confirmed today and at all sessions, that she needs all of us. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19691	I accept, therefore, a course. I propose to my colleague Arnaut to organize it, I'll be his, because he knows it best, I'll come to that course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19692	Thank you very much. Dušanka Majkić, the debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19693	So now we've heard what Mr. Arnaut said about a general debate about this law. It is an attempt to actually take the task force, or the Joint Commission, out of the state in which it is presently located. Two years of working on a bill proposal and not giving a complete solution, and in the meantime they're just starting to come up with observations from all sides, we've come, we've brought ourselves into a situation like this that we don't know what to do now. This law cannot be corrected by amendments, Parliament cannot carry out a work check, or control of the work of independent bodies, Parliament cannot deal with the analysis of the work of civil servants in some institutions. Well, these are things that are unimaginable. If we haven't learned yet who's doing the review, then it's embarrassing to show it on a bill proposal. So, this law has no ability to fix any amendments and its fate can only be that it does not pass. I am surprised, given that very serious people in that commission, so Sokolović, Bojić, Kožul, Zovko, Softić, Tadić, I cannot believe that these people haven't found that much time to say accordingly – we have come into something that we don't know how to get out of and please help us finish it. I think today is the time to stop this, and all the elements on which to work, Parliament has all these elements, but it does not use them. The moment we begin to replace representatives of the executive authority who do not do their jobs, even if they are from our party, then this Parliament will have an argument for it and will need no law, but only the unhappiness of the representatives who have so far shown it countless times. Here, therefore, my suggestion is to keep this law, not to allow an extension of the deadline and to put this point to its further work, because during which... we will not get anything. If anything could change that would mean a positive attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19694	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, non-compliance with the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19695	The Honorable Chairman, we have a decision on the agenda, namely a statement on the setting of a new deadline. So, the law is in the process. We can neither adopt him nor adopt him today, because he is still, so, on the Constitutional Commission, and 45 procedures are to be completed on the Constitutional Commission so that he can come to the House. Therefore, a new deadline is only required here because the Constitutional Commission, therefore, did not finish its job within that time limit and is looking for a new deadline in which it will end. I agree with you in one part of your remarks, but today is not the subject and I will not discuss it, on individual points, I have amendments. Well, I, if I were to move on now, I might as well wonder what the Commission was doing for two years, but that's a second question, that's not the point of the agenda today, today is whether we want a new deadline or not. If we're not going to set a new deadline, that's one thing, and if we're going to set a new deadline, then let's end the procedure under this law. I think we should finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19696	Thank you very much. But if you listened carefully to the MP, she spoke of reasons why, if I understood so well, she would not extend the deadline for making, that is, the adoption of this Law. We have Dušanka Majkić, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19697	Just let me tell my colleagues. So what it says here doesn't show whether the report, whether the extension of the deadline, is due to the fact that the Constitutional Commission hasn't finished its job or because we expect someone else to continue working on this law, because it doesn't show from it. So the man said, so this shouldn't be on the agenda today until the Commission's finished. Why is that on the agenda, that's what I was talking about in the first part when you said, "Here we go." It had no basis for being a part of the agenda, I was just talking about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19698	Thank you. I will just remind you, although I have Damir Arnaut, the correction of the wrong allegation of the business provision in which he says, and therefore this item is on the agenda – in the event that the Committee does not deliver the report by the deadline, the House declares itself on setting a new deadline or suspending the legislative procedure. I repeat once again what MP Arnaut said, so we're having a discussion, so we'll make it clear. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19699	I thank the chairman. You've just reminded me of what I wanted to remind you, so that I said I quoted specific business provisions and why this time it's in front of the House, not the College. The College initially issued one deadline, and then the Commission did not declare itself within the deadline set and the Rules of Procedure states that the House is now to be declared either on a new deadline, or on the total suspension of the legislative procedure. However, what the Commission's report also says, and this is extremely important, is that the Commission has failed to declare itself on this Bill proposal because of the absence of a proposing, or an authorised representative, and Mr Bojić, as the chairman of the Commission, responsible for the drafting of this Act, has been duly invited. Mr Bojić did not even come to the Commission's meeting, he did not inform the Commission's secretariat that he would not come or the reasons for his absence. And therefore I, here I am glad to again... insist that Mr. Bojić, as a responsible person for this Law, give his report. Now, 46 Mr. Bojić has changed his mind for the third time, we'll see, if this debate lasts, maybe we'll have four, five new applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19700	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19701	Thank you very much. I ask the MPs not to hold a debate from the benches, but to register neatly. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19702	I thank the chairman. You heard, although he didn't speak in the microphone, you heard Mr. Bojić and his comment. The Rules of Procedure prohibits offended MPs and I request that this business intervention of mine enter the minutes of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19703	Thank you. Let's move on. No more reports. We're closing the debate on this point of the day...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19704	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19705	The chairman wants to address this item on the agenda. Here's the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19706	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the honourable MPs that a few days ago the IMF sent a letter which, among other things, addressed to my name, which is about this Law, or parliamentary oversight with a focus on the solutions offered by this Act and regarding the Central Bank of BiH, which, solutions which they strongly oppose. I forwarded this letter to the members of the Council of Ministers working in the Working Group, Mrs Borovac and Mr Grubeša, and asked them to meet other members of the Working Group who are working on this Law regarding this IMF letter. If you consider it necessary, I can directly inform all members of the working group about this letter, but here we have two representatives of the Council of Ministers, although, of course, the Law has never been in such a procedure that the Council of Ministers discusses it or takes final views, and that we are proposing to the BiH Parliament. And for that reason, I forwarded the letter addressed to me and several other addresses to members of the task force who are here outside the Council of Ministers. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19707	Thank you, President. The debate under point 3 is concluded. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, Law No: 01-02-1-1377/17, of 31.05.2017. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 49th session of the House, held on 05.07.2017. The bill was removed from the agenda last session of the House. The Constitutional Commission delivered 25.07.2017. The bill's proposal report. The commission passed the bill and proposed that it adopt it to the House. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Annual report in the area of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-28-1791/17, since 20.07.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19710	I thank the chairman. The subject-matter report is very detailed, it is very extensive, and as mentioned in the opening section, it is a complete document showing the situation in the area of the agricultural and food sector for 2016, but it also focuses on the situation of the ten-year period, which also motivated me to study the document in question and to give the necessary attention to it. On page 8 of the report, it was noted that the first meeting of the Sub-Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries between the European Commission and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which took place in 2016, concluded that no expected progress has been made in the area of agricultural policy and rural development policy when it comes to key priorities, and this clearly gives a negative picture of the relationship between the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina with this very significant, if not the most significant 48 activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why is it so in this Report I did not find an adequate explanation, nor could I draw any conclusion accordingly that would justify such a situation and such a relationship. The first chapter of the Report stressed the importance and contribution of the agricultural sector to Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy where the agricultural sector is said to be one of the most important sectors of employment, and that the share of agricultural activity in total employment is around 19%. On average, some 162,000 employees were employed on an annual basis in the agricultural activity for a 10-year period, while in 2016 the total number of employees was lower than that average and was 144 thousand, so less for 18 000 jobs in 2016 than the 10-year average. That's how it's listed in the report. I think this is a very alarming data that tells us that every year the number of jobs in agriculture is decreasing, i.e. the agricultural-food sector is threatened and threatened with the threat of total collapse, which would mean immeasurable damage to the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy and further deterioration of life for a large number of our citizens. This conclusion is supported by the following data from the Report – Table 1 shows that gross added value in fisheries and fisheries in the total GDP in 2013-2015 is reduced from 8.44 to 7.60%. In the Federation of BiH, the reduction of employment in agricultural activity for the ten-year period is 21 thousand. So, in 2006, there were 72 thousand employees in the Federation of BiH, and in 2016 51,000 people. It is also said that by six years in Republika Srpska, the number of persons employed in agricultural production has been reduced by 17,000 or 16%. This is a very disturbing part of the report, and I believe that this is news that should buzz in all the media and on all the portals to wake up competent ministries to take adequate measures to preserve agricultural production and employment in this sector. It is very easy to conclude from the report that it is based on the many years so far, i.e. Ten-year passive and formal observational roles of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been difficult to define the strategies and policies implemented and intended for the agricultural sector. What do we call a policy that passively and blindly observes agricultural production as it chokes and disappears. The question arises, i.e. I ask the Council of Ministers – which topic in this country is currently more important than the answer to this Report presented by the gradual and continuous dying of agricultural production, are these data even concerned? I wonder if it even makes sense to discuss this topic when I have a feeling, from earlier practice, that any criticism or critical consideration will be understood as a political initiative, and the essence of the real need for a state and all levels of government to face objectively and systematically real problems that will dispel us and these little brave and bold agricultural producers who, unfortunately, do not see their better future and perspective. I want to convey very openly the message of the agricultural producers I've been talking to these days, because it's already certain that the contributions due to the extreme droughts this year have been halved and the damages are very large. They say they have been left behind, they say they have been disowned, they have been neglected and humiliated by all policies and all of us who represent them in governments and parliaments, and their trust in the rule of all levels has long been lost. Now I ask the question – what message and what answer can we send them from this session as a sign of recognition of their role, status and existing very difficult situations, and what concrete measures can we mitigate existing negative trends in agricultural production? I tried to find the answer in Chapter 14 of this Report, where the measures and priorities in the area of agriculture, nutrition and rural development are listed for 2017. But as the measures planned last year are listed here, I consider it necessary and I call on the Secretary-General to present the implementation of these measures in the context of the resolution of this emergency situation, as this report, on page 118, for 2017, provides for capacity building to deal with natural disasters in 49 to increase the level of preparedness to prevent and protect from emergency situations that may affect the agricultural sector, i.e. in other words – which is specifically done to help agricultural producers due to this year's drought. Although this Annual Report provides an objective and realistic picture of the agricultural food sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, its purpose is questionable unless we take and implement adequate measures to strengthen the capacity and sustainability of agricultural production. I must admit that the promoter has invested, it is seen, a great effort to make this Annual Report contentive, quantitative and qualitatively complete, which is also appropriate for this level and scope of reporting, but also deserves praise for transparency and objectivity. In Poblavlje 2 Reports – trends in agricultural production, this Report identifies and provides significant findings and characteristics of the agricultural sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Low agricultural sector productivity, unfavourable farm structure, insufficient and poor technological equipment, depending on imports of all the inputs needed for production, agricultural production is not and will not be priced competitive, the structure of the heated areas does not change for many years, the unusability of the potential of agricultural production, adverse influence and dependence on weather conditions, the ten-year decline in beef production. All of these weaknesses require a coordinated, continuous and systematic approach which, unfortunately, is not and is not recognizable in this report, which does not provide security for agricultural activity in our country. The devastating knowledge from this report is that there was no shift in the establishment of IPARD operational structures in 2016 to open up the possibility of using 130m euros in the amount of funds intended for agriculture, agriculture and rural development in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The report states that in 2015, only 4 million KMs were allocated to all agricultural investments from all budgets. Then it is clear enough what the IPARD funds, which are intended for our agricultural producers, would mean for agricultural production and rural development. The blackest and most devastating scenario will be if the funds for IPARD II, which are intended for our agricultural producers, are allocated to other candidate countries in the region because of the lack of agreement. Is this reason enough and a threat to reach an agreement? I am publicly asking the question - who and why punish our agricultural producers because only those in the region have no access to the grant that the European Union has allocated to them. Last year, the distinguished House adopted a conclusion requiring the urgency of harmonising and setting up an IPARD operating structure model in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, of course, this conclusion was neither realized nor the Council of Ministers was manifested why it did not execute the conclusions of this House. I have no intention of suggesting new conclusions, because it doesn't have any purpose, it doesn't make any sense. If the Council of Ministers The conclusions of the House of Representatives appointed by the Council of Ministers, then it is clear to all of us [[the speaker is warned on time]] What kind of relationship the Council of Ministers has with us, towards this House, because we represent the citizens of this country and agricultural producers expect their demands to be heard in all homes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19711	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate, and after this debate, we'll take an hour's break and proceed at 3:00. Here you go, counsel. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19712	Well, here, I have carefully read this report by trying to find not a section, not a page, but at least two words about a segment of agriculture and warfare that is rapidly developing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am talking about growing medicinal plants. There is no such thing in this report even though in the last two, three and four years, this is, here we are talking about 2016, it is one production that gets a significant swing in the southern part of the country, mainly in Herzegovina. I know that this data is still unsettled, shriveled, still alive, but yet that production deserves to be found in this report. Why? What has so far been made up of a part of the initiative of lower levels of government in this segment in the better development of the situation will bring Bosnia and Herzegovina as a leader in Europe and perhaps wider in this production. The worse development of the situation will be that the invested funds are not small, they are lost, they fail, at least it will never be until the end of what was created in the non-planish, the verse, when what is not productive, which is not rational, again, very seriously people have entered into it, again, will remain production that guarantees very serious export effects of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and through the possible processing and completion of very serious and labour effects of employment, etc. In order for this to be the case, which is new, it is also taught by those who are inside it to be material, professional, legitimate aid from the state. This, we all know, relates somewhat more to lower levels of government both to entities and to counties, but this report for 2016, which is still written routinely, does not guarantee us that. I hope that this segment and I call on the competent ministry to in the 2017 report and this segment of production, I say, will very seriously process and find ways to help this segment of production. He's pulsating, he's healthy, people work and hire more people in that segment and that's something we have to treat as a very serious agricultural production, even the chance of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19713	Thank you very much. Here, at this point, we'll take a break of an hour, continue at 3:00. Dear colleagues and colleagues continue the session. Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19715	I thank the chairman. I don't know if it makes sense for me to discuss it and there's no one to hear it on the other side or on this side, but there it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19716	What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19717	What we're gonna do is what we're gonna do. So, this Rural Development Report, which covers a ten-year period, I find quite interesting, although it is data that has been collected from several sources and tried to compare them as the share changes, the share of income from rural, rural activities that we factor in rural development of agriculture, expertise and I think that fishing is in 51 matters, forestry. Anyway, it's interesting and, I'd say, quite comprehensively this report, but a report with no conclusions to come up with as a result of the analysis. So I also discussed on the Commission for Exports and Customs the same report and put on the same such objections, although I supported the report, because I believe that a lot of efforts have been made to complete these data, especially when it comes to the Federation where agriculture is, in fact, competent, cantons, counties and the Federation of BiH, so that the data must be collected from a lot of sources, so they are, in some ways, incomplete. What I would especially like to apostrophe is that, I think, my colleague Emrić has done it much more in detail, so I won't keep much on that, is, when it comes to food security legislation, where drafts have been drawn up for quite a number of laws, the Food Act, the Veterinary Act, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, but they are not practically released into the procedure for considering and adopting. Nowhere is written in this, in this material why it is, who is and why it has stopped such a set of laws that are very important to our farmers, that is, the law which, by law, is a set of laws that are actually necessary to establish an IPARD structure when it comes to this sector. What does that mean for our farmers, cattlemen, how in one such entity? I don't really have the words when you just compare the data that comes from agriculture, livestock, which are seen as a share in gross social income, in Republika Srpska are twice as large as in the Federation. So, twice as many people in this activity, for example, create a new value in Republika Srpska than in the Federation, and we actually have a blockade of the adoption of these laws and the development of infrastructure that would allow us to access IPARD funds practically from Republika Srpska. In order not to now, so that you do not realize that I always criticize the Republic of Serbia when it comes to this, when it comes to these issues of legitimacy, adoption and completion of the strategies of the whole state that we need, I will also refer to one data that is also symptomatic, and on page 99, where the adopted laws relating to food safety and where the data is as to how many such regulations, or the law adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are adopted in Republika Srpska, and there are no data for the Federation at all, as if nothing was adopted, as if nothing had been done. This I can't believe that, that such a situation, or they didn't collect the data or they didn't supply the data. When I asked this question on the committee of responsible people from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, they really stressed that for several times they were sending emergencyes to complete the data they needed to process for this one report. And I will just a little bit more to deal with the reality of these measures given in Chapter 14, especially when they are, in some way, foreseen for 2017. We have some three, four months left by the end of the year, and I would like to say that at least one of these measures, and there are even two pages, there's no point in reading them, it's a whole series of activities, law, strategy, harmonisation of the registers of agricultural land, a network of accounting data on agricultural holdings, so a whole series of activities that, however interesting and attractive they seem, for the next, let's just say, for a few years, it might be realistic that these conclusions can be partially realized, but for 2017, I find it extremely unrealistic. So, the feasibility of these conclusions and the measures given in Chapter 14 is, by my assessment, under the great questionnaire team before... on the year 2017 which, behold, practically, is in its last quarter. And I had another grudge when it came to this report. At no time, there is no information at all where, what and how, with this path towards membership in the World Trade Organisation, which is also largely relying on the problems of 52 non-existent laws in the Federation when it comes to food control and a whole series of other activities concerning the signing of bilateral contracts between Bosnia and Herzegovina and those members of the World Trade Organisation which impose certain unrealistic requirements on us when it comes to exports, i.e. imports of food products in particular. That would be, let me say, one of my main remarks when it comes to this material, that they have given a whole series of information summed up from different sources without an analysis and a review of why something is the way it is. I regret to say, as I recall, there is not a single letter in the Reform Agenda, not a single word commitment, not a single task concerning rural development. So, in some ways, this brings me quite a dilemma whether we really want rural development to be better than it is, whether we want our farmers, our food exporters or those who provide food for the domestic market to provide a more prosperous and easier way of producing and placing their products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19718	Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19719	Mrs. Krišto, Mr. Bosić, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear ministers good day to you. The important question is food, what is it to produce and how much do we have? The independence of a society, freedom of man, depends significantly on the ability to produce food. Nature and Bog gave Bosnia and Herzegovina potential in this sense that it was not used. I personally have the respect for the minister's engagement, the information is done professionally and that's good. In all that area, I am under the impression that we do not respect time and nature, not to take timely measures that enable us to use what Bog has given us effectively. A good report in its contents, we in September '17. We're discussing what happened in '16. The job in agriculture is looking for greater dynamics, I would like instead of this report if we had today a cumulative state report, an entity about the autumn seed from which it comes, with which I encourage and with what ransom price we can count on people, especially young people in agriculture, to see the chance to live from work. We will not have our own food unless we create an ambience that can be from the village from what is done to live from its work, although it will not be a perspective for young people. And it's not all about executives. Agriculture as an integral form of human and nature relations, one inevitable need of society is for Bosnia and Herzegovina one of the strategic branches. When were we on this strategic part as responsible citizens at the state, entity level and the Brcko District sat together? Never. And it might be good that today and because of the failure to adopt the Strategy on the Development of Agriculture prevents us from taking the money at our disposal, they are necessary to survive some land and some food production branches, we delay. Here, from this point on the occasion of this information, I am launching the initiative to hold a joint session of the state parliament in early October, entity parliaments around agriculture, and to see what is really what we want together, what is what we can do and to create a network of behavior that will allow us to have our own food. It's our asset and we can work on it. The information we've received is clearly talking about the elements of the current situation and I'm going to accept what the Information is saying, but since I've grown from bread that's from agriculture very 53 I know very well what it means to be uncertain about people who produce, and they don't know that they're going to sell, products and they don't know at what price they're going to sell it, they're promised support and that kind of support is lagging behind. We must work as a legislative body together with others in this country, who are also in a legislative role, to create a mechanism that provides it. I deeply believe that the chance, especially because the complementarity of certain industries such as tourism, which is developing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is significant for us to have our own food, to have healthy food. The arguments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the production of healthy food are very high and we need to stand clearly behind the people who produce, stimulate them to be, and where they happen to be helped, they need to be jumped. I am deeply convinced that the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina depends significantly on the capacity of food production. And in that sense, I suggest that the College consider the appointment of a joint agricultural session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19720	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19721	Thank you, Chairman. Here, right at the beginning of my exposure to, in some ways, give support to my colleague Škaljić in the part of the discussion when he rightly, uh, referred to the fact that we should hold a joint session, because the problem of agriculture is a Bosnianhercegovic problem, agriculture success is Bosnia and Herzegovina's success, and I think we should try to make a positive story with both entities and cantons that would result. I'm sure you'd give the results. I will briefly analyse here, and I have no intention of comprehensively analysing the report, but I will analyse only parts of the information on the realization of the conclusions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly from the 28th session held in May this year. We've been in charge of the Ministry of Trade and Economic Relations for Realization and, here, we have one here, let's say, tax-sequenced, uh, tax-based obligations explained by the Ministry about the activities undertaken at a given time. I'm here to say that, and to analyse, when this report is about, the relationship, the more active relationship and engagement in the protection of domestic production, which means preventing excessive imports, unfair competition, control of the correctness of imports of products, etc., we have, therefore, a situation here that is not good. We can fix it in two ways. One is regulations that open the space of action. They are, let's say, to some extent and enough at this point but necessary full harmonisation with European Union regulations, standards and practices in order to achieve full protection of domestic production. I note this for the simple reason that in this part of the regulation we have a certain delay, and I have, several times, through the parliamentary initiatives already, already, spoken parliamentary questions, and this is not the passing of food laws, veterinary laws or amendments and additions to existing laws, the law on agriculture and rural development. So these are certain legal regulations that, surely, when they are passed, this, will strengthen legislation and we will have partial or complete harmonisation with European Union regulations. And the other thing, when it comes to protection, is what's going on in the field. I'm here to talk again about an initiative to introduce a blue diesel measure. I will remind us that there have been a lot of initiatives by the ministry, two of them seem to have been of a personal nature and two of them related to the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly on 61st and 37th. The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. And in that 54 part, I can say that the Ministry has done its part of the job, referred to the Directorate for indirect taxation and mainly, is it, either in Parliament or there is a stop. Why do we need blue diesel? ... we need it because the MPs also said it was about the adoption of the Excise Law when we were supposed to increase the, uh, fuel price, because blue diesel is written in the countries of the region, it is one of the very important resources that cost or simplifys the process of production and, in some ways, helps farmers in primary agricultural production. Here, we did not find or find the strength to help farmers in this period from 2010 to today. And since that's current and at this point in front of the Independent Club, which I belong to, we're going to suggest a conclusion to the House of Representatives. The proposed conclusion is that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly tasks the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to launch an initiative to introduce a blue diesel through the launch of the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. We will thus, if we can get the strength and adopt amendments to the Excise Act, introduce a story of blue diesel, a lot of help to agricultural production, but we may open this other side of the story, which is the amendment and addition of the Excise Act when it comes to increasing excise duties. I think that has been the proposal of many MPs from these parliamentary benches before. And the second part I want to talk about is help, money support in agricultural production, and in the last ten years we have one stagnation. So, sometimes in 2010, certain funds have been defined and it ranges from 140 million to 170 million in entities and in Brcko District, and even in '14, it seems to me '15. A year, there was a drop in those funds in '16. It kind of fixed that a little bit. But the essential thing besides the small amount of resources allocated is that these funds have not been fully implemented that agricultural producers on the ground have problems, that they can't finish, this year with positive business, and the disasters that are daily, yesterday the floods, today or the other day drought, are mostly affecting agricultural producers. So this small amount of resources is not being allocated to the final agricultural producer, so as not to say that there are certain non-transparent and inefficient costs. And on that point, the next period needs to be... done. So no country that seriously treats agricultural production will treat agricultural producers this way when it comes to, here's the incentive. It's got to be numbers three or four times larger than they are at this point, uh, on stage. And just for a little while, to say that these measures and priorities for 2017, I think they're good, but I'm just afraid they don't stay, what the people say, a dead letter on paper. It's September 7th, we're close to the end of this year, not yet four months old, unless one efficient paper approaches the realization of these measures in any case, one, they won't see the light of day, and this will again reflect on agricultural producers who really need the help of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, here's what we need to do, and as much as it's in our jurisdiction to do, we need to give our maximum to make that life easier for agricultural producers, so that they can do so, not just to themselves and their family, but to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are people who are currently employed, we need to strengthen them, we need to help as much as possible to create new jobs in this field of agriculture, not to close down. Here, I say, in front of the Independent Club, we have submitted a proposal for a conclusion, I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to support this one initiative, and I have no doubt given the way the minister and his ministry have done so so far. will go further into procedure. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19722	Thank you. Tastenik Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19723	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It's declassified to welcome everyone again, because I've already welcomed you once. Not wanting to get into the essence, or content of the report that I was talking about on the committee, I would now turn a little bit to something that is reality but about agriculture and something that someone in this country should run or make an effort to do so. I tried to enter into the structure of laws or legislation of countries that are abnormal, such as Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and our neighbours Croatia and Serbia, and to compare with the country that is normal and which brings these laws smoothly to protect what is the basis of life – Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I found that the normal state has made life so complicated for itself that these abnormals need to admire us, the way we destroy ourselves. So I'm gonna go back a little bit in history, history, or history, I hope the esteemed minister listens to me. This country today, which is about a million and a half fewer inhabitants than it had, with that number of inhabitants, had some satisfaction in potato production. She had two of the largest potato processing factories in the Balkans, one in Glamoc – Glamochanka __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The Glamocha Glamocha, I know, and the other one on Sokoca, the two biggest. Today we have neither the two biggest nor the self-satisfaction, but we eat potatoes, for the first time I've seen a bag made and... It is worth bringing him in from China, it is not worth producing him in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As you know, Mr. Secretary Semberija was giving, here I'm talking about self-satisfaction, oil production, we don't have today, but we're importing Bimal raw materials, we don't know where. And the complacency when I say and we had a million and a half more inhabitants. Or something where everyone laughs, the total production of cabbage was so much that we were the largest exporter in the Balkans, I speak as the Republic, then the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the cabbage from the area of Semberia and the space between Bugojna and the Upper Vakuf. And that potato ended up in China, we're eating Chinese cabbage today. Or, if we go back a little bit now, since agriculture is a broad term, back to livestock, you know that Vlašić had over a million small cattle throats, a million throats, that the Belimić plateau along with part of the role and Kalinovik had the next million small cattle throats, when I say Bjelimić is also taken there, that we had the complacency in the meat production of small cattle. When it comes to the dairy industry, we had eight large dairy and complacency in the production of natural milk, what is manned, not from dust imported from different parts of the world. And I can now talk about one agricultural product to the plum and to the fruit. We even had complacency in the Neretva Valley in the production of agrum. We didn't have watermelons in one, we didn't have watermelons, but that's why we're melons again from the Neretva Valley. And then I come to page 14 -- processed and unprocessable surfaces, unprocessed, and I'm saying it's possible that it's a set of data that you gentlemen got from someone but it's not true. Processed and 56 unprocessed surfaces are not only what is sampled, but what has been used, because cattle are in a space that is not plowed, and that space is now empty. And then the grief of a man gets caught when he goes and, let's say, he drives from Livne over Glamoc further, what's there, the grief of a man gets caught when he goes from Doboj over Derventa, the Blue, those parts, and sees what's abandoned and those squires from such a fertile country, or when he goes to a Romani plateau and sees it's so abandoned that it's too scary. What's he saying? That these countries that are in a chaotic state like Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, that's where they are, Bulgaria, are still thinking about when the area of agriculture is, I'm not talking territory on purpose, the area for agricultural production, and the production isn't just planting, I'm talking again, but what's growing above the ground is being picked somewhere in the crossroads, and what's eating from that land that gives weed, means cattle, it's all agriculture, it has a whole strategy in one country. What is this interference in entity competence if a law is adopted on the protection of the stock fund at the state level, what is this interference in entity competence if a agricultural production strategy is adopted in one country for self-satisfaction in production? So is it possible that carrots can't produce as much as we need this country, and we've produced it for a million and a half more inhabitants than we have today, four times more than we need Bosnia and Herzegovina. So how did agricultural giants come up from Agrokomerac come up through UPI? You are well aware that we have had 11 large fruit and vegetable processing factories, and so I can list them, from the largest hop in the Balkans, which is now standing in Rogatica and so on, the largest in the Balkans to supply practically all brewery in the former Yugoslavia. But the important thing is to fail, it's important that our cow dies because the neighbors hear better, they roar more. What kind of interference is this in the field of ethnic competence if, according to the European Union funds, it goes with projects and programmes that will cover branches, parts of agriculture uniquely for the whole area. I've set an example, Mr. Minister, of the two largest potato-processing factories, but that's why we're eating chips today, and I don't know what, that's a piece-of-the-art world waste. I don't know, of course, how these inner councils within the Federation of Canton, so in the state of entity make people realize that here in a sector called agriculture, it's going to absorb hundreds of thousands of people to work, to work. It's just... It's obviously not an interest to do that because it's important, again, that the neighbor dies a cow. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Please say one sentence if possible, please. [[You're warning the speaker on time.]] And I'm just going to quote one sentence from professor. Šabanović, who wrote in March before the war in 1941, thinks of all those who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina – we would rather trust the Tibetanac than our wisest and wisest man, we prefer it when neighbors die a cow than our neighbor to eat a dead cow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19725	Thank you. Next, MP Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I dare say that this report has been properly written, I congratulate you, you have made a very thorough approach to the analysis of the state of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina is our national treasure, our national resource, which must not have 57 entities or municipal, or cantonal borders, and that this is something that Bosnia and Herzegovina finally needs to reach a consensus, to agree on how we can make a strategy for agriculture to join European funds. In your statement you showed, in a special one-saccument, the availability of agricultural land and you referred to... the management of agricultural land owned by state property, and that's fine. It is not right that most municipalities have not delivered the report, have not delivered the report, although the legal deadline has already been passed, which is the disobedience of the executive authority and I think that someone, from the highest level of the state, should warn all municipalities that you must have these reports in order to possibly apply to funds in case of reaching an agreement, in which I believe it will happen soon. What concerns me is private property. It is too much luxury in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which my colleagues from other countries have told me, that now, there are countries, let's say, I'll take Jordan for example, those with 6% of the farmland feed the whole country, they told me – how lucky are you from Bosnia and Herzegovina that you have such fertile soil, that you have rivers, that you have forests, mountains, you have, dear Bog has given you such a nature as you rarely see where you see it. I've spoken here several times, and maybe it sounded serious or unserious, I can't as a woman, not as a mother, not as a housewife, accept the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is importing carrots from Greece, and white onions from China. And simply aware of the fact that even the pensions of my hometown of Zenica, producers throw carrots for a simple reason because they can't place it on the market, they also throw milk even though the Zenic-dobe canton per milk canton is among the three leading cantons along with the Un-unsko-sanski and tuzlanski canton, even in cattle, but I think it's too much luxury to stand so much unprocessed land in Bosnia and Herzegovina empty. Is there a possibility that land owners who are not in the situation for health reasons, due to age, because of the fact that they may be in refugee, in the diaspora, to give land for compensation, compensation to them as owners. I believe, I am quite certain that there are many and large and small agricultural producers who would like to approach such a way of processing the country, by taking this land for use. I think that the state should consider giving a way of incentives, so to your help, of course within the limits of possibilities, to advise the entity ministers that simply Bosnia and Herzegovina is no longer in a situation to allow itself the luxury of having so much unprocessed land. As for the situation in cattle, me, I'm happy that my canton as well as tuzlanski and Unsko-Sani canton fronts both in cattle and in sheepmaking, I'm worried about what's going on with the Middle Bosnian canton that represents ecologically, it seems to me, the most protected zone in Bosnia and Herzegovina very clean, one of the most fertile grounds for, here, this is, what Mr Backović is about, I apologize for repeating, but I have to say that because it's something that pushes me, why sheep and why grass cheese can be a terrible brand, or a product that we can go out of quality to the market, IPoljorad not sure that any other firm in SBK that deals with this, congratulations to my colleagues from Livna why they are, the way they're able to brand it, but I're worried about why, what happens with SBK, and there are not even the products that they don't report it as a product. I think such a pearl as Vlašić must be used maximum for production, so both cattle and sheep and what today is Europe's biggest trend, which are goats, goat production. Why? As a doctor, I can confirm to you what all colleagues say... that goats are the healthiest meat to feed a man. Regardless of the fact that it says in the report that, that there is an organisation of the purchase of milk and the sale of goatmeat and that... at entity levels, so I think that it would be, taking care of the fact that in the Report in several places it mentions that small producers very often give up production because of the inability to obtain conditions and achieve, to achieve standards that impose, of course, our market and market of the European Union, I think with little incentives that small 58 producers should be encouraged, because you know this will represent newly employed citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, will allow their existence and education of their children and their stay in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as beekeeping is concerned, I've already said it and it would be about my humble cometaries. I know that in your ministry you are making significant efforts, I believe in entity ministries, but it would finally be very good... the future of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and our children to agree, to make a strategy in which in the first sentence, in preamble – there will be no transfer of jurisdiction, therefore, from entity to state level, but let's make a strategy that will help us withdraw from the European Union money that will enable the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to live a decent man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19727	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19728	Don't laugh, dear colleague. We're going to have to come up with a new name for lawn cheese, something like a tower, a dog, an autochthonous Vlasic dog, and it happened with Mr. Minister's lawn cheese, a Bosnian burek, a Sarajevo kebab, a Banja Luka kebab. Someone remembered in that faraway America, and three brands were registered in Canada, pasture cheese, Sarajevo burek, and Sarajevo kevap, and in the United States of America, a Banja Luka cevap. Protected, imagined, protected, under this name. Now, we're going to have one-on-ones, cantons and our mutual story and confrontations to help us eat pot cheese from Canada, a Bosnian barrel from Canada, a Sarajevo kewap from Canada, and a Banja Luka cevap from the United States. It will be brands that will soon come because the chains of such restaurants are opened, they are protected. So I suggest you say in your discussion and ask for a brand name like a tower is not an indigenous Vlasic dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19729	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19730	I'm in debt, I apologize, please don't take this as a replica, I would never do it on your good discussion, but you are all witnesses here that I have repeatedly addressed the government and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and I know that at the Ministry of Civil Affairs are working on branding certain products. It was my representative initiative to brand Bosnia and Herzegovina's immaterial cultural heritage and put it on UNESCO's list. It's not impossible, if they've done it with the crumbs, they can do it. But I still can't make peace with the fact that we import such products from foreign countries and I can't make peace with the fact that, here's an excellent display of fruit growing and vegetable production, I can't understand that we're not able to get colders, finally pack the product and sell it as our own, but we're still buying products from Croatia, from Serbia by expensive money, and we're not protecting the wallets of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 59 This is what I wanted to say in my discussion only with a good intention of protecting, material protection for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The refrigerator and the packaging, it's not a difficult technological process, and for the grass cheese and for Poljorad, it could be much more invested and thrown into the market. It just doesn't make sense that we sell milk, and we don't make expensive cheeses, so it's not at all, I congratulated Livno, but I wish there were more places like that, so one of those places could be Vlašić. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19731	Thank you very much. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19732	I have the right twice, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19733	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19734	I have the right to twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19735	Well, I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19736	No, no, I'm kidding, Mrs. Krišto. We figured out Nermin well, great. I'm not saying this that you're something in the wrong context, but what we're doing against ourselves, because, well done, Livna, it's a great honor to Kupres, and in Kupres they managed to protect, it's a great honor to the traps, but we have a lot of it in this Bosnia. Well, I can't believe someone made it past, so this is a town called Sarajevo, to protect a brand of Sarajevo kevapez in the United States, to protect a brand of lawn cheese. What are we doing to ourselves? Who knows how many of these are? But it is necessary to investigate, to seek, to stand up to this, where, ultimately, you will say that, I don't know, the Sarajevo Old Orthodox Church is a legacy, I don't know, Vizantije. I mean, it's funny, it's people from this area of cultural and historical heritage. And so in turn, we can talk about anything. So you just have to start thinking about yourself, without these narrow limits, these backyards, in this hyper-organized country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19737	Thank you. No more reports, we're closing the debate at this point. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, dated 12.05.2017. 60 The BiH Security Ministry, in line with the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, submitted the report. The Commission delivered its opinion on 05.07.2017. The Commission unanimously adopted the Report and delivered it to the House for further action. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19739	I applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm not sure. Article 74. The Rules of Procedure say, in the event of the absence of the motion of an act, any act, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. Do we have a representative, a motioner of this act, the Ministry of Security?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19740	We've got an assistant, and the minister's got justifiable occipitality.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19741	Then I remind myself of another member of the Rules of Procedure who says the Council of Ministers at House meetings is either a minister or a deputy. On the committees, he can assist the minister, but at the House sessions, the secretary can confirm, the Rules of Procedure are very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19742	What do you suggest, colleague?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19743	Let the House know whether we're going to discuss this or not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19744	Shall we put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19745	Well, that's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19746	We'll put it to the vote right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19747	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19748	Who's in favor of pleading whether or not we're going to discuss this item on the agenda? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And to make it clear, of course, we're putting it to a vote. 61 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19751	... decided otherwise, not to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19752	Shouldn't we discuss it? All right, come on. No, maybe, maybe we got it all wrong. That's what I was thinking if I might have said in the interpretation, so this point isn't working right now, we're taking it off the agenda at this point, we can't actually take it off the agenda, because it was on the agenda. About her at this point, we don't have a debate and we don't plead. It remains as one of the points of the next House session. Here, that's it. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješko bridge and the Report on activities to implement the project of building an interstate bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj and connected highway border sections on Corridor 5c – applicant: Ministry of Communication and Transport of BiH (realising the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 49th session of the House of Representatives, held 05.07.2017.) Act No 01-50-1-1474/17 of 28.08.2017. The Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, in line with the adopted initiative 25.07.2017, provided a report on activities related to the construction of the Peljega Bridge and events related to the construction of the bridge on the Sava near Svilaj, and on 18.08.2017, the amended text of the Report. The final text of the Report was delivered on 28.08.2017. The text of the Report was amended in the section concerning the conclusions adopted at the 108th meeting of the Council of Ministers, held on 19.07.2017. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport delivered a report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješko Bridge on 7 September 2017. The addition you received from the Group of Representatives proposed the adoption of the Declaration you received. The representatives of the SBB Club also proposed the adoption of the conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Representative Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19754	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. For starters, I'd like to draw attention to a few things. First, that I will only talk about the Pelješko bridge because it is simply not possible to unite these, as it is put into point, to bring together three big and important issues, it is also the Pelješki bridge, it is the bridge on Savi near Svilaj and the added Corridor 5c. Secondly, I recall that I referred this initiative to the College of the House of Representatives about three months ago and that after we had failed to get answers on the Commission for Transport and Communications, despite repeated queries, or at all, no or no valid questions if we had already received them. For these reasons, I asked for a full and detailed report to be delivered to all MPs, and then, with the deadline breaking, and let's remember that taking this point off the agenda, the Ministry has been given ratty and selective information which, I must say, really offends common sense. Afterwards we asked for a supplement and got even worse, we received a report in which, for example, the Pelješki bridge is being considered until the banalization in 2006-'07. A year, and then in the new paragraph, in the text itself after 2007, it jumps for a full nine years away, I'd say, with a contribution later. So, after 2007, the July 2016 meeting, held in Neum, otherwise, a meeting from which Croatian media report under the title – Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have resolved the recommendations on the Pelješki Bridge. The ministers agreed that there is nothing to be held back, provided that Bosnia and Herzegovina can provide safe passage to the open sea. Nothing reluctant at the time, they said, nothing but, of course, the threats to arbitration, the official decisions and conclusions of the 2007 BiH Presidency, consisting of Silajdžić, Komšić, Radmanović, and the Declaration adopted at the Federation Parliament, activities that were bilaterally taken by the predecessor of the former minister of Juske, Matanović and so on. Previously on July 15, 2016, there was another interesting meeting, I would like to remind him, but the report also skipped, it was a meeting of two delegations, the date of 19 April 2016 in Sarajevo and the initiative of the BH party, but no ministers attended the meeting. Matanović was resolved, Jusko was not appointed, but the deputy minister and secretary of the ministry attended. After the meeting we read again in the media and listened to the amazing statements of Deputy Minister Dalipagić, here I will not have them here, there is no time, you have on YouTube, I recommend it is worth looking and listening to. It is interesting, however, that Minister Jusko has been claiming these days that, in the four terms of the Peljeski Bridge, it was not mentioned, of course, until he arrived. What four mandates, I wonder, we had three previous where the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Transport and Communications were Adnan Terzić and Branko Dokić, so Špirić and Ljubić, so Bevanda and Damir Hadžić, that's three, the fourth is this current mandate. It's not true that things didn't happen at that time. However, more in terms of BH reaction after some Croatian action, which is in some sense not illogical. It is strange that, here, in the Report, he was left out, even if he was not left out, perhaps the first to recognize the problem, and publicly opposed the construction of the bridge and one-sided moves of the Republic of Croatia, so Mladen Ivanić, the then-minister of the MIP, who was still 2005, after Sanader officially opened pre-election and official works on the bridge, threatened arbitration in order to, he said, protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or that he did not skip the entire 2015 in the Report, and Minister Matanović, who also said, on 1 November 2015, in line with the 2007 BiH Presidency's decision to clearly show in favour of the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest. The first demarcation and corridor, then it talks about the possibility of connecting two parts of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, soon after that he was removed. But, by the way, he's wrong who thinks someone, say, Minister Matanović in the report simply forgot. It's more like it wasn't a reminder of what he was up for, because it's just incredible opposites, we're talking here now about the report that's been sought, the synergy of maybe half a year apart. And, here, I made a comparison, Matanović, November 1, 2015. – Croatia does not have our final support for the construction of the Peljega Bridge. Construction of 63 bridges, building a bridge should precede a bilateral agreement with Croatia that would ensure free access to international waters in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea for Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then, noteably, Bosnia and Herzegovina did not take part in the development of an impact study on the environment of bridge construction. So, Matanović vs. Saša Dalipagić, Deputy Minister, said on 19 April 2016, title in Croatian media – Butković and Dapilagić, unquestionable building of the Pelješko Bridge. Dalipagić says – the Pelješki bridge is just one of the projects that are not at all controversial. It has no conflict, it's a matter of profession, not politics. And then, Minister Jusko, July 15, 2016. Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have resolved the recommendations on the Peljega Bridge. It is interesting, however, that there is no report of what did not correspond to the ministry in 2006-2007. Again from the media, Veselin Poljašević, Ljubicev then deputy, – tendering for the construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge without signing the protocol with Bosnia and Herzegovina is a unilateral act of the Republic of Croatia. I didn't know the tender was called, but he was not accepted at the Council of Ministers' meeting. It is indisputable that we cannot ban Croatia from building a bridge, but neither can they forbid us to have a smooth approach to Neum. Or Croatian media in September 2007. – Bosnia and Herzegovina still refuses consent to the Komarna-Peljesac bridge. Bosniak ministers require prior consent to establish a border at sea, Serbian at the Uni River, and so on. And then we were suggested from the Ministry of Transport and Communications that everything had been arranged in 2007. The report itself could still be said to have time, but I will still draw attention to an important detail published on N1, 10 June 2017, it is said that the information and conclusions document with the claim came from the Ministry, quote – by voting this document, so the information and conclusions we asked for, Bosnia and Herzegovina would officially give its consent to the construction of the Pelješki Bridge. And yet an important question – who from the Ministry tried to give us conclusions instead of the information requested? Finally, there is something else that I want to underline, at the time of the initiation, I did not have the intention to enter into the measure of things, in the matter of the internal waters, the territorial sea, the open, in the provisions of the Law of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention and the like, the right of the sea, although I have been very well informed of everything in the meantime, instead I have sought actually for answers to two basic questions – why has the settlement of the disputed construction of the Pelješko Bridge, as a necessary and logical condition, preceded, on the one hand, the setting of the border at sea between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, and on the other, the establishment of the access corridor, it was also in the initiative, the access corridor of the open sea? And then the second question that I've been focusing on -- what's the truth in the club controversy that the story of the Peljesca Bridge is being followed from the very beginning to the day of today, for at least 12 years? For these reasons, then, I asked for the full and detailed report to be delivered, detailing what it should contain. Of course, we didn't get any of what the Ministry asked for. Instead of the expected thorough report, here, we got these critters, tendedly selected data and received, which we neither asked nor expected, these conclusions that I had already mentioned in that first version, of course, which the Council of Ministers did not accept, except for requests to receive a report from the State Commission for Borders which, in the same way, believed or not, was sought and already in 2007, although we do not know whether they were delivered at that time, this time we had two months sent. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In the end, I end very quickly, I note that unlike the first questions that are necessary to the matter of bilateral activities, it is the establishment of the border and the water corridor, as the representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and not the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, so I am interested in what was going on here, I would really like to know – what was done on our ground in this case? What have they done or not BH authorities in these, according to Minister Jusko, four mandates, and what and who? Of course I didn't get the answers. We still don't. ... [[the speaker is warned on time]] 64 I asked, not out of personal interest, but within the framework of the parliamentary mandate on behalf of the public, citizens who do not know, who have the right to know. In this, therefore, I'm sure, one thing I'm sure of right now, is that we should have asked at least a minute to 12. I hope so. is that after today's debate, it will be a little clearer for everyone. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here's how much for now, thank you and don't mind what took.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19755	Thank you, too. The minister answered, it would be good if we gave him the word right away, he just reacted. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19756	Dear President, thank you. Dear MPs, once again, I warmly welcome you. Today I pointed out that open and direct communication is something that can help us solve a large number of issues. Honorable MPs, you have brought here some information that compromises me as a minister and that is absolutely incorrect and you have given half-information, and half-information is in that when I spoke to Minister Butković in Neum, unlike Mr Matanović, who has never met for 240 days of his term, I would never mention any of my colleagues, but your reaction makes me have to say it, the same two letters I sent in the last year sent by Minister Matanović, when we met in Neum, the parent theme was Svilaj who waited six and a half years, which could also have been launched by Minister Matanović and those who were before him. The Jusko started it in two months and Svilaj is working at full capacity, of course, you don't mention it. And on the other hand, neither did I, nor would I ever sign anything related to projects like this until I got the Council of Ministers' consent and until I got the presidency's consent. Open up and look at the statements in the media, I quote, not once but in more media, and that is, when I got the information I said – no minister has the exclusive right to make a decision on this matter, so neither is my smallness. Only the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH can decide on this. Clearly, not once or more. What I can certainly say, when it comes to activities that I hold responsible for not happening for 10 years, correspondence between the ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, in my opinion, is not a correspondence. Speaking of activities, I'm talking about activities have they ever met delegations after 2007? Never since 2007, since the ninth month, these delegations have not met. There has never been an open correspondence to discuss the matter. He just stopped talking, and we're just now opening that question, and here I am, again, putting myself on the Parliamentary Assembly fully at the disposal of following all the instructions you give me. I didn't sign anything, I didn't sign anything, I didn't make any decision about it at the time, this is what people all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, the state television, and I don't want to be told that I did something that would work in the opposite states. I am the Minister of State and I fully represent her interests so, please, take care when you make such arguments that this goes public and your word and my word when they come out through our mouths we are no longer the owners of them and we can do inexplicable damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19757	Thank you, Minister. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19758	I am sorry that you are discussing this way, but here, only for your information on July 7th 2015 was the meeting of Mr Matanović and Hajdaš Dončić, who was then Minister of Transport, and Mr Matanović's reaction followed immediately after that meeting, on 20.07., where he asked the Minister of the Sea, Hajdaš Dončić, to send names for the task force they agreed at that bilateral meeting, means between Minister Matanović and Minister Hajdaš Dončić in Zagreb, 07.07. So, I'm asking you at least if someone's hiding information from the Ministry to look for the right information and then to discuss it on the basis of this information.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19759	Thank you. Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19760	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, the media and others present. In the introduction of my presentation, let me just say that, if a group of MPs had sent one Declaration and that there would be no confusion with fellow MPs, as the MPs had signed, we would have multiplied and shared because we had divided this Declaration three times. This Declaration is in force by the last 24 MPs, there were only certain language amendments. So, on the basis of the report on activities related to the construction of the Peljega Bridge, on the basis of all the events that we can follow through the media these days, various statements, meetings and everything else that have characterized this topic, we have sent a declaration that I will present to you here for the public, and the public that this topic is livingly interested in. So, given that the rights of sovereign states on land, in the air and at sea are clearly and precisely established by the United Nations Convention, expressing their gratitude for the announcement of the soon beginning of the construction of the Pelješko bridge by the Republic of Croatia without official agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the circumstances of the unregulated state border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, aware of the damage that the building of the mentioned bridge may have to do with relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and the application of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, stressing the importance and the special need to highlight and publicly support the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a maritime state enjoying all rights as well as other maritime states in the world, contrary to any action which may be aimed to reduce or fully respect of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea, calling on, in favouring and upholding good relations with the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, by means of the Treaty and by means of Croatia. Declaration: 1. We find publicly that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a maritime status, we find that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a maritime state that has its own territorial sea, and remains in line with its status, and according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and as regards, in particular, a completely free and non-interrupted approach to the integration of the territorial sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina into international waters where no safe passage regime is applied, as well as a transit pass regime, but a free navigation and communication regime applies, as in international waters, for all types of vessels, flying over and laying down submarine cables. 66 2. We call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union, to suspend, without delay, all actions that may aim to reduce or fully quantify the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea, and in particular concerning the announcement of the start of the construction of the Pelješke Bridge, so-called "Pelje" The small sea, an extension of the Neretva Canal south-east of the port of Ploca and the small stone canal. 3. We call on the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union, to be urgently involved in bilateral talks with Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to reach bilateral solutions on maritime demarcation, on the principles of respect for the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea. 4. We call on the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH to fail to reach a bilateral solution with the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Declaration, to take all necessary legal action by diplomatic means towards the Republic of Croatia, or the European Union, with regard to the protection of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the adoption of a special Law on the Sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the launch of legal proceedings before international judicial institutions. 5. We refer to the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union, to the need for consistent application of the International Law on the establishment of the sovereign rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina at sea. Six. We call on the media to participate comprehensively, interdisciplinaryly and interactively in the activities of the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereign rights at sea on the basis of reasoned facts. Seven. We call on all competent institutions at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to coordinate activities on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereign rights at sea. Normally, this Declaration sets out on the day of its adoption. The aim of this Declaration is, of course, that we have good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Croatia, but that we also have mutual respect for all issues. Here, we're ready to discuss this declaration.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19761	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19762	Thank you. Within, here are the recent developments around Neum and Pelješac Bridge, its regular session at which, among other points, this issue was discussed also held by the General Council of the Croatian National Assembly, which I am a proud member of in charge of transport and infrastructure. Our session was preceded by a visit to the municipality of Neum where we crossed the state border twice. One conclusion we made at that session, here. I'll read it completely. Construction of the mainland-Peljesac bridge is a project that is in the interest, not only of the Republic of Croatia, but also of interest and benefits for the coastal belt of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the municipality of Neum, 67 Herzegovina-Neretva County, thus also for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It solves serious transport, environmental and economic problems in this area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are pleased that the European Commission has recognised the importance of this project and supports it in a way that guarantees rapid realization. Cooperation and respect of the two countries in reaching agreement on technical elements and location of the bridge is an example of correct, good and professional cooperation, which we hope and in resolving other open issues with all our neighbours. We reiterate the need for an urgent and quality connection between Neum and the hinterland of Bosnia and Herzegovina, thus achieving a complete traffic deblockation of Neum. A completely unnecessary and harmful political harangus around the project has been launched by individual political entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a continuation of the policy of opening conflicts that the Bosnian Herzegovina society keeps permanently trapped in solving non-existent or secondary problems. In this particular case, a well-known pseudo-science mythomania is used which does not take into account either the actual facts related to a specific and sensitive neuro-aquatorium, nor to the wishes, needs, interests of the citizens of Neum, and seems to be a direct and lasting damage to the interests and reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here it's summed up about everything we wanted to say and maybe it's unnecessary, but I'm just going to be tempted to say a few more here sentences. As you saw in this statement focus was placed on Neum and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the interests of Neum, Herzegovina-Neretva County and Bosnia and Herzegovina, not on the interests of the Republic of Croatia. It is not that I, too, personally have no empathy for the Republic of Croatia and its interests, but I believe that she herself for these interests, and in this case, can fight and that our help, which we often cannot solve our own interests and needs, is not really necessary here. In a conversation that preceded this meeting and this conclusion with people in Neum Municipality, they focused their thoughts, desires and interests on this. I'm gonna go get a couple of sentences. There are 130 municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and each is trying to solve the problem of transit in and outside the urban centre of the municipality, some fail. I'm a living witness this morning, and I, when I go to Sarajevo from broad brig, I have to go through Mostar, Jablanica, Konjic and I know what it's like when some municipality of Nei moved the transit from its center. Neum is still in a specific position, it has been completely cut off from the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and others, so to speak, transit, strong traffic passes especially in the summer months in Neum and practically blocks it. That is why it seems harmful and unnecessary to me when the neuropass wants to be done, not by another country, but by the European Union, to question it. The agreement reached on the technical elements of the bridge, I will here, as well as my colleague, knowingly ignore the legal aspect and everything concerning the border, is such that it satisfies the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the initial 35m, which would satisfy Croatian interests for a cheaper bridge, we came up to 55m at the request of the Bosnian-Herzegovina side. From what I've heard, I bought information so I'm selling it here, the biggest ship that ever sailed into the Adriatic is approximately 45 meters high. The people in Neum said that it was not Neum's interest to achieve Ginis's record of the Adriatic Sea and that a slightly larger ship than that ship is on board or above 55 metres. Their interest is indeed to solve the traffic deblockation of Neum, their interest in the development of Neum as the centres of tourism and mariculture. Indeed, when I talk about this issue, did we have relevant interests in the local community, including Herzegovina-Neretva County, and their constitutional powers in this regard, so to speak. And yet another, perhaps irrelevant, detail related technically and transportably. Building possibly the Peljesac bridge and access and bypass roads across Peljesac, etc. An important infrastructure project is definitely located in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the Adriatic-Ionian Road, its route has long been, and it is still, in this area, questionable. Any logical technical or traffic thinking after the construction of this road of Croatia and this bridge clearly says that 68 of this Adriatic-Ionian highway, and it is not irrelevant traffic, is extremely important, will go behind Neum around Trebinj, etc., through Bosnia and Herzegovina. Maybe it's good to run this topic and take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19763	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19764	First of all, I would like to say that this issue is not so difficult to resolve if we stick to the international standards and principles that rule and therefore talk today in the highest legislative body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And speaking in the legal and legitimate body of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is not good then, Mr. Kožul, that in your discussion at the beginning you are calling for the views of some NGOs such as the HNS, this with the constitutional system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the legal authorities has nothing to do with it, it is a purely one NGO and you have the right to work in that NGO. And what are state authorities, as they decide, as they do, is already prescribed. The second thing, it is a little sad that on every occasion, since you are a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you receive a salary from Bosnia and Herzegovina, always being a lawyer for the neighbouring state. Be a lawyer for your country. Third thing, remember that both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and one, and the other state signed the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. Article 7, as I recall, point (6) of the Convention states that no coastal state has the right to deny another coastal state free access from its territorial waters to the open sea. Why deny this right to Bosnia and Herzegovina? And in that sense, I think it would be the right proposal, and that at least on this point we should have a consensus, that one interstate agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia should be made and in that contract to define the existence, position, proper width, as a legal regime of corridors and a waterway that will move all vessels towards and from Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the open sea.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19765	Thank you. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19766	Well, I don't know, here I may have unnecessarily stressed that in this act that I read and in my discussion, we were just taking care of the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, my country in which, like you, I've been getting paid longer than you, I'm older. Only I love Bosnia and Herzegovina and feel centrifugal, so it's for me and Neum, and the Shiroki Breeg and Mostar Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that's why I'm discussing it like this. Be assured that to a greater extent, I will represent Neum's interests, as I said, the interests of the southern part of the country I come from, and that's normal. So don't tell me what you thought I was thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19767	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19768	Very short. I agree with my colleague, Becirovic, the attitudes of NGOs on various issues are important, but somehow it seems to me that the HNS is one of the NGOs, that it is trying to make a political factor in Parliament, in the Council of Ministers, and I think it is wrong. Of course, each of us can use his spare time and his engagement anywhere, in sports societies, NGOs, but I don't think it's important for attention and Parliament. Although, let me tell you colleague Kožul, I am with some of your views that you have actually expressed and I agree and I agree that it should be a dumb backdrop connected to, and Neum alone, with other cities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am sorry that those who have had the political power and the opportunity to do so in the last 25 years have not done so, although they often like to advertise that they advocate and represent the very part of our dear country. I also agree with you on the importance of the Adriatic-Ionian road, but I want to, in fact, that I have come forward, to only agree on one principle, it is possible that Neum will never be a port, it is possible, and it is possible that the maximum height of the ship that has sailed into the Adriatic Sea will never be greater than what you have stated, but we do not know what will happen in the future. And I guarantee you now that neither Sejdić nor the Finc, if they can run tomorrow, can become members of the presidency, but we should strive to give them their candidacy and that what, here we may agree that it will not be for our lives, we do not nail our decisions for future generations. Maybe they're just about to sail into Neum ships that you're saying will never come.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19769	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19770	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, the correction of the wrong allegation addressed to the discussion of the Minister of Transport and Communications. There was no need to swear that he didn't sign anything, I didn't say it, nor was it my intention to discredit him, but it was the truth that I was talking to instead of telling the truth that, instead of the request report, I came from media content, mostly Croatian portals, so I didn't make up headlines like already mentioned after the meeting in Neum on July 15, 2017. Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have resolved a dispute over the Peljega Bridge. I ask: have you agreed to this, and have the dispute been resolved? If they are, then what are we talking about here today? The same goes for the second example, for the second meeting, I was talking about the ministry's behaviour, and the deputy minister also said when you read it, you must conclude that someone led him astray, and then he continued to lead others astray, even the Croatian side, says the Peljeski bridge is not controversial, that there is no conflict. And then again, I wonder what we're doing here today. So, the false assumption is that everything is here, so I want to discredit someone, so everyone takes care of what they say.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19771	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19772	Thank you, Madam Chairman. 70 So, first of all, colleague Hanki's correction to an incorrect quote. So, as the Committee for Transport and Communications on 08.05, or 22.05, we got information from the Ministry about what you're talking about, you said we didn't get it, we got it. And he would like to tell his colleagues Bećirović and Magazinović the following, so it was they who advocated a co-operation agreement with the NGO sector and so on. Civil society, now suddenly some branch of this civil society bothers them, if you already call it civil society. So, let us, therefore, that under that 2007 agreement that we have never implemented, you are working with civil society. And on the other hand, Bog, the truth, is not told to me, but it seems to me that they prefer to prohibit the following rights, so we defend the rights of the citizens of this country, to respect their neighbours, to build normal relations, to be directed to each other, to defend the right of one part of the citizens of this country to love their neighbours, to be a bond of good neighbourly relations. Is that a sin, gentlemen, is that a sin? Well, they're our best friends, aren't they, are they our best friends, the most obstacles, are they dear colleagues? Why are you preventing us from doing so, so to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, one part of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? What my colleague Kožul said, we have to think about what you think, so where you're going, where you're going, what do you think, gentlemen, so it's not just your country. Mr. Bećirović is not only your country, hello, this is my lovely one, and I'm getting paid because I've been working in it, just as long as you are. So form a replica, free. So we're building good neighbourly relations, we can be a bond, we offer to be a bond, by acquiring circumstances we belong to the same people, which is no sin, and we can be, therefore, a bond if you want to, if you don't want to frustrated us anymore. So, you're simply in a situation where you've divided us into Bosnia and Herzegovina, colleagues, you're the largest part of Bosniak politicians in this House, So now we're in a fight with our neighbours, you're going to get us in a fight with the European Union as you are. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So we just can't think at all here anymore than you just think we should do as you say. Come on, gather around and let's respect ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19773	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Did you give up? Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19774	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19775	You won't use it, you're giving up. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19776	Thank you. The correction of the wrong allegation refers to a colleague of Kožul and a colleague of Lovrinović. So, counterpart Lovrinović, co-worker Saša Magazivnović and counterpart Bećirović are for human rights because they act so actively in the Joint Commission on Human Rights. And we, of course, are in favour of co-operation with civil society and the non-governmental sector, and since it is unacceptable that in the state parliament, colleague Kožul presents to us what the HNS Committee has brought to its session. And if you are already calling for this cooperation of civil society, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with 71 civil society, we should have here the one proposal that we are all going to vote on on this proposal whether we want to have co-operation with the non-governmental sector, or the NGO, I am asking Madam Chairman not to bring my colleague Lovrinović into my word, because I have my two minutes, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19777	I don't hear your every word, you throw yourself clearly among yourselves, and you all know the Rules of Procedure well.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19778	It's so weird not to hear it. So, then we'll decide if we'll sign this, this, uh, cooperation with the CNS. A colleague, Predrag Kožul, says that based on a policy that someone with this initiative, you probably thought about my colleague, started with the Peljega Bridge, says – we become a permanently captured society. These are very difficult words for someone who is precisely in those cantons where HDZ has its majority for many years, 25 years, are permanently displaced society, so there are no Hrvat. ...you have Croatia, you have HNS, but you have Hrvat somewhere in the European Union, it is the biggest tragedy of your policy. And you're saying what's happening today is damaging to the interests and reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this should be organised by a special session so that you from the HNS explain how we harm the interests and reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Says colleague Lovrinović, here we are. We're trying to get in the way [[the speaker is warned on time]] Bosna and Herzegovina with, I ask you not to warn me because they are me, because my colleague took a few minutes of speech from me. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Bosnia and Herzegovina will fight against the European Union [[the speaker is warned on time]] On the basis Lovrinović your dual citizenship, you are already in the European Union and we who defend and protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina absolutely can be qualified, and this is what you have done as chairman of the Joint Commission for European Integration and how you have brought us together with your member of the Presidency and brought closer to the European Union here is the fact that today's initiatives where we warn about the work of Parliament and Council of Ministers. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19779	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19780	Thank you. Namely, I will remind my colleagues that at the 49th session, held on 05.07.2017, we adopted four conclusions of the apropo debate on the Pelješa Bridge. And the first conclusion - The Council of Ministers is asked to deliver all agreements, contracts and other acts related to this issue. We got something, we didn't get something, here's a colleague and colleagues already mentioned what we didn't get. This is what I urge, here, to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which did not respect Parliament's conclusion, and the Council of Ministers, of course. 72 Second conclusion – Ask the Council of Ministers to send a note to the Republic of Croatia to suspend all activities related to the construction of the Pelje Bridge. I have no information, nor have I received any text of the note that may have gone towards the Republic of Croatia. Third – All institutions responsible for this issue should be actively involved in the activities. Some got involved, some didn't. And fourth -- the Ministry of Communications and Transport is tasked with monitoring activities with this issue and reporting to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It's obvious that some people here have taken something personal, there's nothing personal here. Unfortunately, I must conclude this that in the last 15 years, a series of gaps have been made regarding activities related to the definition of the interstate border between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially when it comes to border at sea and, behold, on the Uni River, it seems to me. Therefore, this is not related to any mandate, this is a matter of several mandates, and I therefore do not see the reasons why anyone here is called to do something wrong or not to do anything, but it is the information sent to the Council of Ministers of the Ministry of Transport and Communications that ultimately provides for information on the Pelješko Bridge, namely the four conclusions of the Council of Ministers and, behold, I draw attention to Conclusion No 2. – The Council of Ministers accepts the concerted views of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia's expert groups from its meeting on 07.12.2007, at which the width of the 200m waterway is agreed, etc. Isn't this planting to the Council of Ministers by the Ministry of Transport and Communications? I don't know, I guess the minister was on vacation at the time, but whatever this is proposed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications and these things are inadmissible. What exactly did you want with Conclusion number two? To legalise all activities that are contrary to the interests so far, here, I say both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am not a member of the HNS, of the maritime society, of the associations of municipalities and citizens, etc., but I am a representative of this country, I am a representative of the citizens I represent. I claim to be responsible that this is not in the interest. And then I ask the question whose ministry is it, is it the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia or is it the Ministry of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So I'm paying attention that there's been a series of gaps, and so here's the key question, actually, who and what it represents. All the philosophy of this question is drawn on this sketch. Namely, some of the self-called experts there have drawn a closed line when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's sea border around Neum. It can't be a closed line if we're a maritime land, and we are because we have a way out of the sea. If we have an exit to the sea then we must have access to the open sea, to international waters, no matter where that corridor was. And a unilateral decision or the Law on the Sea of the Republic of Croatia cannot establish the limit at sea, i.e. the inherited border of our former common state of Yugoslavia. It is a unilateral act by the Republic of Croatia. So I'm saying that all philosophy is contained here in this sketch. On the other hand, there is, here is anyone who has not seen can, has on the Internet, meaning, a feasibility study of the construction of the Peljega Bridge commissioned by the Republic of Croatia for the European Union, where it is claimed here in the Performance Study that no legal assumptions have been solved for the construction of the Peljega Bridge in the intended place. Therefore, these are perfectly clear things. In addition, during the time, we have, so we have, in force, the conclusions of the BiH Presidency when he was chairman Željko Komšić, when he was chairman of Nebojša Radmanović, we have a letter from Mr Radmanović, we also have the conclusion of the Presidency when he was Željko Komšić, etc., and so on, as the Presidency does not change its decision they are in force, it is binding for the Ministry of Transport and Communication, as well as for the Ministry of Civil Affairs, of course, the Council of Ministers. I don't see what we're talking about at all. For this reason, here are a few colleagues, including myself, we have proposed this resolution, a resolution that I certainly support 73 and that contains all of these elements that we have talked about today. So I think that the discussions in terms of, here, that we want to challenge some conflict, imagine someone usurped our rights, and our right to access the open sea, and that someone if you warn him, you know, don't usurp our rights, then we challenge conflict, it's not true it's a replacement of thesis. Whoever puts up with someone's right actually wants to conflict. So remember the activities around Luke Ploca, Luke Sibenik, and we have no access to the ports built for the purposes of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy in our common state. Now, eventually, we are being challenged by the right and access to the open sea. Well, I'm sorry, then I don't understand what it's really a conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19781	Thank you. Debate, MP Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19782	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As a delegate to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I have repeatedly asked questions about the demarcation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia at sea and, behold, we see that this has not been resolved to this day. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are, of course, asking the question, and the academic community why the Pelješki bridge was not rejected at the beginning and proposed the tunnel as a possibility of road merger for several reasons, and one of these reasons is cheaper, and that would have closed all that story, but had been unnecessarily discussed, the self-called experts discussed the dimensions of the bridge for many years, the colleague said from, it started with 35 m to 55 m, which, the heights of which experts say is wrong. There is concern in the Bosnian-Herzegovina public that Croatia is not interested in the road merger of Peljesac, so that roads or tunnels do not come into consideration, as it is assumed that they have built for example. The tunnel and the Peljesac joined in this way, Bosnia and Herzegovina would remain free at sea for all time, and it seems to our neighbours from Croatia that such an option is out of the question. On the other hand, once a permit for the Peljeski bridge of Croatia could never again be made, it could no longer be withdrawn if the permit was granted and that would be the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a maritime state. And that's a fact. Croatia can't even imagine the fact, they've already said it several times, that Bosnia and Herzegovina wants, of course, to build a large seaport and see it as its big problem, and here is the fact that Mr. Mehmedović mentioned the fact that our right use of the port he mentioned. On the other hand, it is unclear that Croatia as a member of the European Union did not take care of what Mr Bećirović said about the UN Convention on the Rights of the Sea, and it is very strange that as a member of the European Union they did not take care of such things. I think that in this situation, politicians should not and should not show any fear, no hesitation, no succumbing, potential, intimidation and blackmail in terms of support of Croatia's Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the European Union. If the Croatian and world public wants to prove that Bosnia and Herzegovina has nothing to do with the merger of the Croatian mainland, and all for good neighbourly relations, by removing the burden of various pressures on this issue, because yet admit that bh politics is now quite brought to the wall, wisely and with dignity this problem can be successfully solved in several ways. I have consulted maritime law experts, as well as road traffic experts, who say it would be good for Croatia to make an official position in writing with the explanation that Bosnia and Herzegovina will do everything possible to find a common solution to the maritime problem on behalf of our important good neighbourly relations with a friendly country, which includes a total of seven proposals. The first option, that Hrvastaka self-finances the highway over Neum with 74 complete sovereignty. Second option to Croatia, e.g. He's self-financed a tunnel under Neum. Third option, that Croatia is self-financed by the Komarna-Peljesac tunnel. The fourth option, that Croatia is self-financed by the Pelješki bridge with dimensions below the bridge that corresponds to the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to experts of maritime law, which is the height of the middle pillars 65 m, the width of the range of 600 m, the additional protection pillars around the carrying bridges, and the legal and administrative that this bridge has no restrictions and conditions without any mandatory use of pilotage and assistance to the tractors. So, a completely free pass would such a bridge be within the limits of acceptability for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It can be done that way, and it seems to me to be the most logical solution. Option number five, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is financing the highway over Neum with total sovereignty. Option six, that Bosnia and Herzegovina self-finances the tunnel under Neum, which is of course expensive for us. Option seven, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is financing the Komarna-Peljesac tunnel. After these seven proposals, ask the international community and Croatia to declare which one of these proposals is acceptable to them. This should, of course, be stopped, because Bosnia and Herzegovina, no matter what dimensions it is, always imposes itself as an unfavourable solution as an unfavourable complication of maritime transport, because it is a bad destiny for maritime traffic due to unnecessary narrowing of the waterway. However, unless a joint agreement is found in the seven points proposed, there is nothing left but to point out proposals number eight and finally a proposal number nine that I will now present. Bosnia and Herzegovina will finance the difference between the cost of the Pelješki bridge that Croatia is currently proposing in exchange for the Pelješki bridge that corresponds to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is that the height on the middle pillars is 65 m, the width of the range of 600 m, the additional protection columns around the carrying bridges, that the legal and administrative bridge has no restrictions and conditions, without any mandatory use of pilotage, the assistance of the tractors, so a completely free approach, so such a bridge would be within the limits of acceptability for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is expensive, but it is in our interest. Option nine, if Croatia does not accept proposal number eight, then Bosnia and Herzegovina will finance the total cost of the Peljega Bridge, which is favourable to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is, as Mr. Kožul said, a pseudo-science not mitomania, but a pseudo-science... I would say something, because we can't pay for it anyway. I think that the construction, the fact that the construction of a large seaport that scares Croatia, and the capacity of a port of over 3 million cargo, which could begin sometime in some future, which Mr. Magazinović spoke of, could happen and does not have to happen, the value of such an economic giant in the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina would bring hundreds of billions of dollars, and that profit in the future would never have stopped for all generations and would never have been final. And surely the next generations would deeply appreciate those fateful times in which we would resolve this issue – Bosnia and Herzegovina's right to go free to sea and to its port. And I think that would be a very wise move in the history of bh politics. There is no need to do anything quickly, to be very careful, this problem has not been resolved for long, I think that, above all, borders should be set and legal rights should be taken into account, in the end there is an International Court, a number of expert analyses of this extremely complex problem are needed, however, experts should be included in the analysis, not so-called. pseudoexperts like they've been involved so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19783	Thank you. Before we move on to the next debate, just one brief notice. Here, with our colleagues from the college, we decided to work tonight until 6:00. We'll take 75 breaks and we'll continue the session tomorrow at 11 o'clock. We have obligations as members of the College and we cannot continue to work. And something else like a proposal, due to the ever smaller agenda of the sessions we have, we will also have to plan a two-day session of the House in the future. And now representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19784	The government has been working so well that we have been talking for so long about problems, therefore, this sarcasm, this, should be regulated in political parties agreeing on what is important for Bosnia and Herzegovina and what should be decided in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I think we should work in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina every day, but the problem is that we spent today on nothing, and we're gonna spend tomorrow on nothing. So, what's going to be the result of our work? When you draw the line tonight and tomorrow – nothing, that's the point, so, sorry that, I had to, so I liked that you said before, before... But here, I'm going to, I've been thinking whether or not to talk about this topic because this topic has really broken the better relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, and I'm sure it's not in the interest of any country. This rhetoric we've been listening to lately is a rhetoric that will bring Bosnia and Herzegovina back, and those who in this way want to get political points maybe a little help, and I see the only purpose in this and these intense debates that we listen to today, which we can read every day on different portals and newspapers. Did you agree to this one of yours? I read somewhere before my vacation that the distinguished Mr. Halid Genjac, a member of the House of the People, sent a letter about this Peljega Bridge, and I thought because of his great authority that this issue would be resolved, that we would have no need to talk about it at all today. But here, nothing has changed, nor has anyone returned the letter to the esteemed delegate. And then the letters of ministers came to the Council of Ministers, given that the Council of Ministers has no position. So the question arises whether the Council of Ministers has a position on anything in the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is an important political moment and important political decisions should be made in institutions because this is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we had letters from the esteemed Minister Osmanović, and after that we had a letter from Mr Grubeša, so it didn't dawn, then we had another two or one letter from Mr Džaferović and Mr Softić. And if we were, here, today I signed this Declaration because I would have been declared a traitor if I hadn't signed it, and I'm sure that all I've listed so far is not how we're going to solve this problem with the Peljeka Bridge. I'm sure of it. And it only complicates relations between the two countries and it complicates relations between the two peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, when Halid couldn't, which a colleague says, he'll figure out who's gonna handle it. Croatia is currently making political views and some political arrangements. The fact is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is on the side of justice and international regulations, but the other problem here is that there is no one credible to talk about it minimally in Brussels. If Brussels had a good counterpart then it would not have happened that, in this feasibility study that went towards the European Union, where it says that not all formal legal matters between the two countries have been resolved, the European Union is making money, because this European Union is funding what is not resolved between the two countries, or there are some other arguments or possible arrangements, which are either being thrown away or somewhere under the table. I've heard they've been dumped, so they can't find them in the Council of Ministers, so they don't know what the real paper is, uh, in the session. We talked here today and oh, I'm sure this problem can and should only be solved by agreement, but no one talks, no one talks. The other day, Mr. Plenković said I heard from Prime Minister Zvizdić, a friend of mine. If they were talking about state interests 76, then we need to know, if they didn't talk, if they talked about a joke like that, then we don't need to know, that's their thing.n So, there's something going on behind the system, the bridge is being made, probably, if we do this, we won't solve the problem if we don't open the dialogue, and I see, if it's true, that there are such hints from the Republic of Croatia. The question arises whether the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can protect its territory. There is a way that it can but a far-reaching goal, and interest, and a commitment that should be to those who exercise power, to protect the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not allow the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be shut down when it comes to its maritime law. But as far as I can see, no one is in Zagreb, no one from Zagreb in Sarajevo, nor is anyone in Brussels to say – stop, don't give money for what we haven't agreed on, if someone is trusted up there. So, I do not dispute Croatia's right to have its own interest, nor Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, but if we really talk like this, we will not solve this issue. Please, therefore, those who spoke of international arbitration, don't just be... when it comes to this appeal for a review of the genocide verdict. So it must be responsible, serious and implemented through the system in this country. I hope that both in this Parliament, both in the Council of Ministers and in the Presidency, there are people who have sworn to protect the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If not today, then there will come a time when everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina will love this country more than the one that gives them less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19785	Thank you. So, word came from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers of Finance, but we have a correction, probably referring to this, so let's give the MPs a correction to the wrong assumption. Representative Diana Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19786	Thank you. In short, the replica refers to a colleague of Ahmetović but also to most of the colleagues who have discussed it so far. I've been hurt by this traitor, if I hadn't signed the Declaration, I'd have been a traitor. Who, Bosnia and Herzegovina? Here, no one offered me to sign that Declaration, so I didn't have a chance, and I don't consider myself a traitor, nor do you prefer your home than I do mine. When a colleague of Lovrinović, a colleague of Kožul, spoke about the interests of the local population and of the Hercegovic-Neretva County, it is not patriotic, and it is patriotic to even look for Luka Ploce. So I would look again at the opinion of experts who said that the gauze in the areas we talk about in most places is no more than 27 meters, which means that all those famous ships you're talking about here have no way of getting through those waters and that we're going back to the UN Convention on the Sea, etc. There's something else in the background here. And in fact, we all know very well that Neum will never be a port to which ships of more than 55 metres will sail, and that is clear to all of us. And, as fellow Kapetanović suggested nine solutions, I would, in accordance with what I hear here today, also suggest one solution to this problem, to make, to have some kind of compromise, make it like Tower Bridge in London, so every day at 16 o'clock let that bridge rise to pass ships called Sejdić-Finc, which are more than 55 meters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19787	Thank you. 77 Co-chair of the Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19788	Hello, everyone. My motive to answer is because it will end the session at 6:00, you said you're continuing tomorrow at 11:00, and we're with Mr. Vučić tomorrow at 11:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19789	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19790	It doesn't matter, just that... And it seems to me, here, this address of mine is an attempt to just say the facts, because it seems to me that there's so much fog around, and it's quite clear both the positions and the opposition and that it's proving that this Council of Ministers, I don't know, is doing anything or is not doing what it does. I'm not replicating anyone. I just want to make a few facts. So, you're the 05th of July, the House of Representatives has brought, discussed this, reached four conclusions. In more here, the discussion was that the Council of Ministers never came to terms with the conclusions, which is incorrect. So, the Council of Ministers has come to its conclusion, we unanimously adopted the conclusion of Nos 1, 3 and 4. He's got a stenogram, he's got a record, he's got everything. We did not adopt your conclusion number 2 to send a note to the Republic of Croatia because when the note is sent it has its own procedure and the rest and we simply did not accept it. As for Mr. Juska, who probably came into an awkward situation, whether or not it was before him, it wasn't working before him. So here mentioning the struggle for our interests in Lucy Ploche, I can tell you that I haven't seen that kind of interest in the last 10 years except that a couple of us, uh, were trying to. The port of Ploce was built by Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is simply unnecessary, has no capacity, can work without the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And instead of focusing in that direction, we came here where we are. I read what was adopted at the Council of Ministers, because simply in this mess you can't say. On 19 July, at the 108th meeting of the Council of Ministers, material was adopted unanimously prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communication with Conclusions. Conclusion No 1 – Report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješko Bridge is being adopted. Conclusion No 2 – The Council of Ministers tasks the Ministry of Civil Affairs to ask the State Commission for the Borders for a full report on its work in connection with the demarcation at sea. Conclusion No 3 - The Council of Ministers notes that the solution to the issues relating to the construction of the Land-Peljesac Bridge does not prejudge or create legal assumptions regarding the solution of other issues under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. It's facts, it's stenograms, if someone signed it, didn't sign it, so that's it. The supplement of this report was subsequently requested, probably in accordance with, but I speak a lot of you earlier, this one, we have requested, we have responded a little bit, what the distinguished representative Vajzović asked for, but it doesn't matter, before the supplement is requested. New materials have also been delivered to the supplement. And that's the end of it. The Council of Ministers did so and it happened as far as the Council of Ministers were concerned. I've been obliged to tell you, and I can back up all possible documents. Thank you. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19791	Thank you. Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong quote. There you go, but it's gone. _________(?) It's Sadik. Then it's wrong, how it happened to you I don't know. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19794	Well, it's not a replica to the esteemed Minister Bevanda really, but I wanted to supplement around these letters, because in this little break, a smoke break, I just found out that there's another letter gone, this time they sent us a letter of honor to Mrs. Krišto and Mr. Čolak. So, here, it would be good if we got all those letters here to see what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19795	Thank you very much. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19796	After all this and so much of this is very difficult to explain, if you are indoctrinated by one, the other, the third, the fifth discussion and what you wanted to essentially become something that is painfully diluted. But I'll be back, so I'll just have a few facts before I make any suggestions. This is not discussed for a year, not two, not five, but discussed since the period when the prime ministers of the Federation government were, because then the state was not wondering, the Prime Minister of the Federation was Mr. Bičakčić, and his current member of the Croatian people's presidency, that we should not forget, and these were related issues of Neum, Ploče, Sibenik, the railway, as it is now called, I do not know exactly, the Un-San railway, the Željava, I remember that well, well. And then it was established, then in '99. the year, about the terrible kidnapping of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets. And then the director general of the Šipad, perhaps never bigger and more reasoned, filed a criminal report that was roughly this way, one 7.8.10 cm, handed it over to the prosecution then, handed it over to the prime minister and the deputy prime minister and then handed it over to the members of the presidency. The next morning he got, well listen to this, this is very important because these documents exist, so they're not missing, a note from the then member of the Council of Ministers, who, by the way, was very interesting to him as a student – you can't be a director of the Šipad anymore because you sent it and that. And in two days, a new director was appointed who was brought here from Gorazd. And it's all done as it is done, we don't have luk ploča, and in the arbitration court in Paris it's all over to make judgment in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are the facts you know, because such is the same dispute that was led with the Republic of Serbia, and related to property in Australia, at the arbitration court in Paris was won. And 79, since these foreign companies were what they were then, you don't know where they were at the arbitration court in Paris. And this dispute was led by the court, the then-Court of BiH and the link, for the first time by a video link. Now we come to this current question. Niko one is arguing, I'm not contesting the construction of the bridge, but I'm contesting to start something before the previous step is over. Why doesn't the issue of boundaries end? Why? If that's the interest of all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then let's ask the question of the borders. I'm not arguing, I'm saying again, building a bridge, but I'm contesting that Bosnia and Herzegovina has no right to access the open sea, because then you're like a sardine locked up in a can. Why don't you get rid of it so we can build a bridge? What's the problem? Of course, obviously everyone forgets the studies that were previously made, from the peninsula of Klek, across the school, and so in turn, until, again, I'm going up, Željave. You guys have fun playing games so you don't see what's going on here. I think it would be necessary for those in charge, and it is up to the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, Denise, not to think of you personally, but of the Council of Ministers, to raise the issue of borders. It is in the interest of both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to finally bring the issue to an end. When that question comes to an end, we will have no problem with the Peljesak Bridge. And it's not, I'm saying again, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not against it, but for the moment that the previous questions are resolved, and I quote some of the previous questions. And why isn't Luka ploča working? Is it just because there's nothing to take out, and then we find out that there's so much roadways and so much furniture, so much and so much of this, so much and so much of that, so here's the report. Why isn't he going over the board? Well, because we've destroyed rail traffic, and from Mostar south no longer can, but again some others, we have another railway company for that little dot. Let us talk a little differently about the interest of these citizens, that what is really in the function of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in the role of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we must be seen as a whole regardless of the internal arrangement, because it will be very fluid if people from these areas disappear, as we already have holes, territorial holes in Bosnia and Herzegovina uninhabited, as if we are the Sahara Desert, and everything is green, but people are gone. It's too close to Neum as a port for everyone in Republika Srpska and they're very far away from Bar, too close. We need to start thinking as a whole in terms of economic space. And Luka Šibenik, so I own it, I'm stressing, maybe someone from the Council of Ministers will be interested, I own it, from the first day it was supposed to be built until the first time it was released, all the documentation. I own it at home because my father was the bearer of that project. And it was he who was removed this way, when he filed criminal charges for alienation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19797	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19798	Correction in some way, uh, which Mr. Bevanda explained a lot. I'd just like to hear if it's been adopted on the Council of Ministers by this supplement you've received. And what's always being said is that there's this harmonised note, the technical aspects of the bridge, and all the members are sneaking out. In that concerted note from the meeting of the expert groups of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on ensuring the safe passage below the future mainland-Paljesac bridge, held in Sarajevo on December 7th or December 2006, point 5th and the agreed 80 notes said that the Croatian side had informed the Croatian side that notes from the expert group meeting are subject to verification by the Council of Ministers. I'm interested, since you're an native to the Council of Ministers here, you're directed to a lot of things, about boundaries, about everything else that's going on, I'd like to hear that too -- whether the Council of Ministers has ever verified this harmonised note regarding the technical aspects of the Land-Peljesac Bridge.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19799	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19800	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the correction of the alleged Deputy Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. As I understand it, Mr Bevanda says the Council of Ministers has not adopted Parliament's conclusions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19801	The other one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19802	Please, please, since when has the Council of Ministers adopted Parliament's conclusions? The Council of Ministers shall implement Parliament's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19803	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19804	The Council of Ministers has never adopted Parliament's conclusions. So, please don't let us, we'll have, here's the agenda point -- the Council of Ministers' relationship to Parliament, I mean it doesn't make sense, it never happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19805	Thank you. Hanka Vajzović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19806	Thank you very much. I actually volunteered to contribute to the understanding of these questions. I'm afraid many, I'd say, don't know what they're talking about. Don't mind me, but talk about the bridge gauges and maybe even joke about who can, how many ships can pass is actually the set-up since that 2005 which has, in some way, been placed, not to say planted, Bosnia and Herzegovina to have fun with it and not to solve this, these questions. So I want one comparison to understand, it's practically a replica of 81 colleagues, dear colleague Diana, it looks the same to talk about passing under the bridge as that, and of course it's about the harmless passageway, as if I say it's not a problem, you can go through my corner, but through a gate that, don't worry, the gauge gates match the gauges, you won't hit anywhere with your head and you can go, and then there's the question -- when you're going to go through what I'm going to ask you at that moment. So, can it go through, because the Pelješki bridge is set up, it is a fact, on the inner waters of the Republic of Croatia and that is why Croatia is right, as it says - we make on our own ground. That's true, now that we haven't decided to know what it is. Secondly, by the way, by the way, no one has ever answered – what is agreed at a joint session. Mr. Plenković often calls, says we agreed on it, and we don't know. I'm interested, I say, not in what the Croatian side did, but in what we did.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19807	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19808	I had no intention of answering, but I must say one thing, the Council of Ministers made a great decision. I couldn't believe the... the speech about these conclusions, I couldn't believe that the House of Representatives adopted within the framework of the conclusions that the neighbouring state was sending a note. It would be such a donkey move that they sent a note, that it would be a scandal over scandals and evidence that Bosnia and Herzegovina absolutely has absolutely no relation to anything. The notes are written, therefore, by the foreign ministers, but approved by the executive authority. And that it's done, I mean, I can't believe what we do. The identical thing, please understand your emotions, I understand completely that today is so many cameras, I'm surprised that the media is asking suggestive questions. Right away, I am for Bosnia and Herzegovina and respect for all laws within Bosnia and Herzegovina, including territorial integrity and sovereignty, I am an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but please, if there is any more nonsense after this...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19809	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19810	Aleksandra, I know quite clearly that entities have a constitutional position that is highly independent, but they are part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can talk about anything but that's the reality of it. Please, is it normal to have a debate about the Peljesk Bridge and that today.... What does the BiH Presidency... is therefore the constitutional position of foreign policy management, what does the Council of Ministers do as executive power, what, do we have the views of the 2007 Presidency, from 2006, we had expert groups? And we're getting into a situation where today we propose a declaration that bids who is for this country. I have to tell you something, I'm not... ten times better conclusions that my colleague Kožul made and they're ten times more in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina than this Declaration. So please, we here order the BiH presidency an amazing thing. How is it, how is it possible that... And one more thing, who's been an MP for a long time, I have to say one thing that's amazing, do you remember the stories of Sutorina? Please be careful, the Republic of Croatia is a much more serious story than Montenegro. Under the circumstances, I was outside, and I spoke to representatives of the Montenegrin legislative authority, this one, and the legislative and executive authorities, they were not touched by the story of Sutorina. Does this story not touch anyone in the Republic of Croatia, except we will have consequences, only we will... 82
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19811	Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19812	I'm sorry, except we'll have consequences.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19813	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19814	An esteemed colleague of mine, now that I'm not telling who, he told me one thing that's a tragic story, which is said, so I ask you what kind of way it is for ministers to individually address neighbouring countries and the European Parliament or the representative of the legislative authority. Is that good? It's not good. And a colleague who, therefore, is neither my political option, said – you know what I have concluded..., the saddest thing for us in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we do not see ourselves here as representatives of the executive, nor of the legislative authorities, which even the smallest country does not experience, and until until we have one vote on it so will always be. That's how it's gonna be here and about the Peljesk Bridge. What we should have said today is that we support, that we expect the BiH Presidency to carry out its activities in accordance with the constitutional position, the Council of Ministers in accordance with its own and that the Republic of Croatia is one of the most important countries for us, that this is an extremely important country and that we want to have friendly relations with it. Please, how many years do we have to wait on the bridge in Svilaj, how many years do we have to wait on the Bridge in Gradišca and do we have to make it turn out again to be 10 more years of the citizens of this country while we enjoy plenty, everyone wants us to be knights for writing to someone else... Well, that doesn't make sense, it doesn't have the basics of diplomatic yes, diplomatic bonton of anyone.../the speaker is warned in time...... can temporarily only use in terms of..., but I believe. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19815	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19816	The Honorable Chairman, you've allowed a colleague twice the time for replication, so for over two minutes he's been saying, "unauthorized time," you've spoken well, but you've interrupted me, and I feel the same way that I've spoken well for 45 seconds. So you shut me down after 45 seconds, and you allow other colleagues to step into the replica two minutes. A colleague was supposed to apply for a discussion, he'd have 10 minutes and wouldn't hurt his Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19817	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go, counsel. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19818	The correction of the wrong allegation refers to the wrong quote by Mr. Lazar Prodanović. It might be nice for you to listen to this replica of his.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19819	I hope it's you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19820	To me, it wasn't very good for me, because here I am going to say that I have answered to correct the wrong allegations, you know we have not sent a note to the Republic of Croatia as a House of Representatives, but we have reached a conclusion legitimately and legally and we have given the Council of Ministers the task to conduct. And now for the first time in this House, this is an invention that the Council of Ministers is voting on the conclusions of the House of Representatives, it is inadmissible. And yet someone is convincing us here, that someone is convincing us here that there is no need for us to fight for the rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know, because the Republic of Croatia is a serious country. Serbia is also serious, Montenegro is serious, regardless of the number of people. But it is our legitimate right to fight for the rights of this country and the citizens of this country and no one can deny it. Maybe the path isn't right for us, maybe we're late, maybe it's taking a long time, maybe it's done, and it's certainly, a lot of failures, but we can't be challenged by anyone's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19821	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19822	...it looks like we're getting into this pre-election year and it's getting more and more interesting. As Honorable counterpart Prodanović said, Croatia will absolutely not touch this, to be clear, all of these discussions are focused here primarily on the domestic public. Well, here, I have one constructive proposal, which will hear in Croatia just as much as any of these other initiatives. Since it is obviously a controversial bridge in Neum, and we in Republika Srpska have a highway, we have a border crossing, but we lack a bridge near Gradiška that Croatia will not make. Let's send one letter to Croatia from here that and that bridge from Neum, Pelješac, move up to Gradiška where we pray and we will all be satisfied and I think it is then satisfied with the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19823	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19824	I apologize first and foremost for discussing longer, to all of you, and I have no intention of reporting, not saying this against anyone, I have to tell you right now, I support Bosnia and Herzegovina's right to go out to the Convention of the Sea, but this is not the way, it's one thing. 84 Another thing, distinguished counterpart Pandurević, the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the European Union has the right to connect its territory, therefore, in the way it has decided. It would be better if that were another way... it would be important for us to keep the Adriatic-Ionian Highway. When it comes to the Bridge of Gradiška,.... it is our priority over priorities and we believe that only by dialogue and agreement can we come to all solutions, including this issue when it comes to the Peleski Bridge. I think that we, I've only spoken here from the point of view of what I don't think we should do, we shouldn't do something for the sake of our own harm, we need to do everything we can to come to a solution with neighbouring countries and with everything else in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19825	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19826	I don't know what I'd like to say, and then I'm correcting the wrong quote. Dear counterpart Pandurević, the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina is that he has more than good relations with his neighbours, more than good. And in order to have more than a good one, I guess it's starting from where we are, I guess this farce from talking about the borders should end, and I should finally say I'll break this play and let us finish this story, and not that, so again I'm not contesting the right to build a bridge, it's unilaterally saying, because by its law, by the law of the neighbouring country, I'm doing it on my territory and closing the passage of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the open sea, which is contrary to international law. The European Union has the right to connect territory, but it has no right to annul international regulations and law. Imagine if they say they will build and connect territory, bridge to Greece, because Greece is separate, I am livingly interested in what they will go through, perhaps through Albania, perhaps through Montenegro, perhaps, who knows what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19827	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19828	Thank you very much. Well, I've heard a few times in a crack so far that someone doesn't allow anyone to defend the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we're all talking about the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at least so far as I've heard, and these colleagues who speak differently from those colleagues also talk about the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and obviously we understand these interests in different ways. I think it is the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina to define all borders with neighbours in agreement with neighbours. I don't think we should solve each case individually, so we've solved Sutorina a little bit, so we're going to solve Peljesac a little bit, so we're going to do a little bit of the Kostajnica, so we're going to solve the Štrpce, etc., etc. If every time we have a problem, which we're partly responsible for, not us personally, but I'm telling institutions that haven't dealt with this seriously for 10 years and more, are we going to go into conflict with any of the neighbors or neighbors, are we going to, or are we going to end this story once? So, proposing these 85 declarations, conclusions and everything that solves only one problem each time leads us to further conflicts and nothing else. And that is why I do not accept that here in Parliament are one for, one against the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that all of us here want this issue to be resolved through an agreement between the countries that we are bordering, I repeat through the agreement. And we are the most responsible that these agreements have never been so far, even we have sometimes avoided them on some of the questions where we estimate that we can go worse. And then we get into this situation to get somewhere worse, somewhere better, instead of having it over in general, we'll be dealing with each case individually. Whatever you gentlemen bring here, whatever conclusions we draw here, we will not convince the Republic of Croatia not to build the Peljek Bridge. We can do that, so we can only lead to arbitration, and yet we can't get rid of it here and we won't be asked about it in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19829	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19830	So, several colleagues, so far, I've been thinking about avoiding this call for replica, but, above all, colleagues and colleagues are not building a Croatian wall but a real bridge, a real bridge, so don't build a wall. And on the other hand, I will remind us that at the 49th session, we have reached these conclusions, which was also spoken by the Deputy Prime Minister's Chairman, so we have asked for information, and we have already made an immediate request for the note, here it is, even if it has the right to give it. So then Mr. Osmanović, not waiting for what the Council of Ministers is going to do, sent a letter right up, uh, the Minister of what he thinks about it, so Mr. Vice-President of the dom also sent a letter awaiting this session here what's going to happen today. So, Mr. Ahmetović, we have these transcriptions all over the place. So, I don't mind that, I hope you won't be angry with Mr. Džaferović, I call his name and... because the state is him. So he can send a letter because he's a deputy, because he doesn't have any attitude, and then maybe he'd prefer to be called Pasha, but now it's past time. I would also like Mr. Džaferović to have been at the ZAVNOBiH meeting, imagine what our country would be and who would be a fighter against anti-fascism, so that we would then have attitudes built here, so that we would have good relations, in order to resolve these issues. So, give the people, what Mr. Prodanović said, so don't, don't take everyone for the right to represent the state, let's make some decisions, and then present them to whoever they need, even if they vote what you do most often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19831	Thank you. Deputy chairman, Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19832	Well, I'm going to try a little bit differently to look at this problem, and I'm provoked by this claim that it's not building, that the Peljeski bridge is not a wall I just think it's the other way around, that by building the Peljega Bridge and bypassing Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory in communications, we're bringing the European 86 into isolation. But it is not Croatia's fault that if I were a negotiator, I would offer everything they want just to make that piece of Adriatic-Ionian highway that passes through Bosnia and Herzegovina. And if you have time to reopen the negotiations, maybe it's a more favourable variant for Croatia, and we will remain part of some corridors and some events, rather than talking about isolation and fighting, like we are here fighting for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina and by fighting against the construction of the bridge. Let us fight for the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina by going towards integration, not isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19833	Thank you. A colleague, Deputy Džaferović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19834	The President-in-Office, chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I answered the replica after Mr. Novaković's discussion. Meanwhile, there was a discussion of Mr. Lovrinović who, as a result of his style, tends to present some qualifications that only he can think of. I, of course, don't want to go down to that level and ILovrinović not going to answer to you at all, I'm just gonna tell you that I'm not doing it because I don't want to go down to the level that you can climb down to. That's obviously your problem, and it's not my problem. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement. The Dayton Peace Agreement implies that the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its existence with a changed name, as an internationally recognised state, with the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the internal structure, etc., and the borders of that state have been internationally recognised borders, so the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been internationally recognised according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and according to the views of the... commission, i.e. the International Community, and these are those borders where Bosnia and Herzegovina exercised administrative and judicial authority at the time of recognition, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been recognised on 6 April '92. The year retroactively with March 6, '92. The year of the European Union, the United States, followed by the recognitions of a number of other countries. This means that mali Školj, the velik Školj, to the middle of Maloston Bay, is the top of the Kleka Peninsula territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This further means that Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a signator, as well as all these countries I mentioned, the '82 International Convention on the Law of the Sea. The year has the right to be completely unlimited, as a maritime state, access to the open sea. The problem here is that Bosnia and Herzegovina, by building this bridge in a situation of unregulated border and by arguing that they are building a bridge within their internal waters, makes it impossible to access the open sea in a manner and by regime as prescribed by the International Convention. So, completely open, unobstructed approach. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It is not those regimes that are mentioned in the statements, but it is a free approach, with nothing interfered access to the open sea, and that is the problem. Bosnia and Herzegovina has no objection that the Republic of Croatia connects its territory and Bosnia and Herzegovina does not dispute it, but it does not object to the fact that the Republic of Croatia is doing so, that in this way, through one-sided action, Bosnia and Herzegovina is being rewarded and we are fighting for our right. And the whole thing is 87 of it. We call on the Republic of Croatia, the European Union whose member is Croatia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to be a member of the European Union, it is in an accession phase, to solve this issue in this way. So this can't end differently than by setting the border on the principles I was talking about, on the principles of Dejton. I've been acting like this, and when Sutorina was involved, I've suffered a lot of criticism. I defend the principle of internationally recognised borders, the principle of administrative and judicial authority on the day Bosnia and Herzegovina is recognised and I remain consistent with that today when I speak on the subject. So, this can only end by regulating the border by agreement, so agree between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, with the intervention of the European Union, which is from the facilities being set up, including the bridge, which allows Bosnia and Herzegovina to consume rights without any restrictions on open sea access as prescribed by the International Convention. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19835	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19836	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As someone who has been Mr. Džaferović's victim too many times when I would spend 10 seconds over a certain period of time, I am really asking you to react. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure here. So, Mr. Džaferović, on the subject of the replica, spoke four minutes instead of two, as far as the Rules of Procedure allow him, and the other thing, this was a discussion was not a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19837	Thank you very much. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19838	Well, I've been itchy for a long time to press this button to correct the wrong quote, but I've been waiting for the debate to go further, to collect, so now I'm going to correct one false quote, perhaps once again to warn Mr. Bosić or to convey, here, this one of my views. So, this particular road that goes through the peljeski, lower categories, which goes along the Pelješki bridge and through Pelješac, definitely solves doubts about the course of the indisputable Adriatic-Ionian road. It ends in Bosnia and Herzegovina with a strong interregional node in the south of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one thing. Second, I must correct the wrong allegation, i.e. to replicate a few colleagues who have ironiced the Croatian National Assembly as an NGO, etc., even though I should not defend them from the Croatian National Assembly, but here I am obliged to say that the Croatian National Assembly is a political organisation composed of more than 15 political parties, and these parties have more than 600 representatives in different legislative bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this Parliament we are five, and in the House of Peoples with five envoys we are the most numerous political group. No one who takes politics seriously, no one who takes seriously and accepts the constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina should ironise it, and should in particular question the legitimacy of the views of the Croatian National Assembly, which I am representing in this House. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19839	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19840	Here I am, trying to figure out what I, uh, caused my colleague Džaferović's discussion, so I didn't find out that it was me, or that anything in the discussion of my colleague Džaferović was about my discussion, except that I said that we wouldn't solve any of the declarations we brought here. And that's what I'm saying, and now, whatever declaration we bring in, we're not gonna solve it. It is a good thing we have intensified the correspondence with the European Parliament, so we write letters to them every day. Unfortunately, we're not going to get any answers from there, but here, uh, we've had a good call these days. I repeat again – Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot protect its interests by partial border resolution, and I guess it is clear to everyone. What have we been doing for 10 years since the problem of building the Peles Bridge? How come we didn't finish the border story, but after 10 years, we now remembered that we didn't define the border, and people wanted to build a bridge? It took us 10 years to remember what we did for 10 years. I don't know if anyone understands my discussion the way I want to say it. I mean, we don't have to, and we can't bring the declarations here, but we can assign those who can in contact with the Croatian problem to solve. And in that sense, I think that these discussions and these discussions should go, and not by correspondence, on the contrary, that is no longer the opposite of practice, it is the practice of this Parliament to abuse the position, to strike the seal as it pleases, to write on behalf of Parliament whoever it wills and to whom it wills, without any views of Parliament and of the College. That would be long and wide, but I don't want to open up about it. It's the only thing that makes no sense to duplicate the problem. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, the problem is solved by talking to the neighbors around the borders, and it needs to go right now, to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19841	Thank you. Deputy Mladen Bosić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19842	I must respond to Mr. Kožul's findings that I am wrong because there will be a Adriatic-Ionian highway that will be defined by the Peljeski Bridge. So, Mr. Kožul, I'm just saying that this is a problem, the Adriatic-Ionian highway passes through all the countries of the Mediterranean, i.e. the Adriatic and the Ionian Sea, except through Bosnia and Herzegovina because it will be bypassed by the Peljega Bridge. And since it never occurred to anyone, that Bosnia's interest is, I'm talking about the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina is to be, that it passes the highway through its territory and that this is more important than the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19843	Thank you. Deputy Šefik Džaferović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19844	So, Mr. Novaković, I referred to your discussion, I did not quote later in my replica, given the attitude you have taken about this, when you said that Bosnia and Herzegovina should put all these questions in one place, to resolve them, and we have a liquid, burning question, building a bridge going, credit going, etc. That's why I answered and called on you and your discussion. Mr. Arnaut, I have long avoided leading the controversy with you, but today you have shown the peak of your insolence and inaccuracy. You, Mr. Arnaut, are no victim of Šefik Džaferović, nor anyone who is the victim of Šefik Džaferović. I am trying, and I have tried to respect the Rules of Procedure, look at the little stenograms of all the sessions of Parliament, and then you will be able to conclude for yourself that this Parliament is actually a victim of your ambition to make progress and that's why your boss likes you, and it's all a joke. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19845	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19846	I thank the chairman. You see, I think the Rules of Procedure very clearly prohibits insulting MPs and what Mr. Džaferović pointed out, by any definition, is an insult and I am asking, in accordance with the business provision, for this to be my warning of his insult to enter the record. Obviously, Mr. Džaferović is nervous because he contests my right to intervene in business when he very clearly violates the Rules of Procedure. So I intervened on two basiss, one business basis is that the replica lasts for two minutes, Mr. Džaferović uncontestedly spoke for four minutes. The second business provision is that the replica serves, i.e. the correction of the wrong allegation, to correct the allegations of another MP, and not only in length, but also in essence before Mr Džaferović's exposure was a discussion rather than a correction of the wrong allegation. So that's quite clear. And as for ambition, here I am not going to break the Rules of Procedure, so speak under this, this point, or this reporting, but a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19847	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19848	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Uh, this is just amazing. A topic that has been on the agenda for many years, so let's say, Mr Mesić, so Mr Josipović, so here we have Mrs Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarovic, talking about these things, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina we don't talk about these things. And if it had not happened that colleague Vajzović had not asked that question, it would probably not have been discussed yet. We have very few details, including the ability and knowledge to discuss these matters properly. I say that 90 on my own behalf, but I don't believe that the others who, I know about what provinces are and what education they are, that they can talk properly, and that's why we have discussions that come down to a personal level. And I really can't, I can't believe we're gonna come up with some sort of solution here that's gonna be consistent with the renaissance, status, reputation and position of this tall home. Well, someone in this country has to lead that policy. Who is second than the Council of Ministers, who is second than the Presidency, to discuss these things and, if necessary, to give these things to parlament, and not to discuss us here in this way, whether Matanović did this, whether Jusko did what we do, how we understand Corridor 1, the Ionian Corridor, how any of us understands what this bridge is doing, so we're talking about gauze now, about the depth of the gauze of ships, I am right to tell you I don't believe that anyone who mentioned the gauze ship knows what it means and that in his working life he hasn't met with these things. This is a completely politicized debate. I really think it would be a good idea to come up with some, as I would say, valid debates, reasoned debates, because we have an interest in saving good relations with the European Union, i.e. with Croatia, but to protect the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina first and foremost, and that this should be much better and better quality to prepare and to lead the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19849	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19850	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, all I see is that he's approaching six hours, and you said we'd stop working and you said we'd move on tomorrow. I'd like to pray, if possible, if it's not a rush to continue tomorrow, because it's Our Gospojina's, to continue on Monday.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-07-0.u19851	Like this, we've exhausted at this point the correction of the wrong quote,... 18 hours, so we agreed to suspend the work of this Parliament, that is, for today. We should make a deal. In addition to consulting with the College, that's a proposal for 1:00 p.m. _________(?) Wednesday at 10 o'clock. Wednesday at 10 o'clock. Since tomorrow he is visiting President Vučić, so, here, because of the obligations and others, of course, that they have, the continuation... _________(?) . [[Common discussion]] We also have obligations that were agreed earlier on on 13. [[no microphone turned on]] Monday... matches probably... 91 [[Common discussion]]
