ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16375	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, continue the 42nd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by the esteemed representative Aleksandra Pandurević. BiH Civilian Minister Adil Osmanović delivered a notice of the inability to attend the session, and Vojin Mijatović, deputy minister, will be present on behalf of the ministry. Here's information I'm getting that the Honorable Minister Marina Pendeš has also apologized that she will not be able to attend today's session. According to the service, 36 representatives attend the session. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in that order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16376	Good afternoon. Nice greeting to the chairman and all present in the hall. I am this question, I think, and the last time it was an occasion, or a chance for such a thing, I asked, but there was no minister, so here I am, in some ways, obliged to repeat this question, and I hope that today I will be able to get an answer, and that is – Please provide me with information relating to the implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy and that: 1. How many unsolved war crimes cases were committed at the time of the adoption of the Strategy, and how many are completed with the 11th month of 2016? 2. Out of the remaining number of pending war crimes cases as many as are in the investigation phase, how many charges have been filed, and in how many cases has the court reached a verdict and how many cases are in the process of resolving the appeal? 3. Of all the war crimes cases brought before the Court of Justice of BiH in which the Court of First Instance ruled, I ask that legal qualifications of criminal offences be delivered to me, and on a case-by-case basis, is the SFRJ Penal Code or BiH Penal Code 2003 applied? 4. Of all the war crimes cases in which the court of first instance or second court ruled on how many cases were tried by the Court of BiH and how many entity courts? 5. The national structure of the cases in which the first-degree ruling was adopted by the BiH Court of Justice. 2 Here, these are questions, actually there are more of them, but here, they're under one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16377	Thank you very much. Here is the chairman of the Council of Ministers together with the deputies and respected ministers, I am taking the opportunity to welcome them, as well as, of course, all present guests and media. The word has a minister of justice in the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16378	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs, MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The High Court and Prosecutor's Council provided the requested information to the Justice Department, so I'll brief them as follows. In response to the first and second question, the State Strategy for War Crimes cases was adopted at the end of 2008. On the day of the adoption of the D.A.'s Strategy, a total of 127 "KTRZ" applications were under way, 1,285 "KTRZ" investigations. In the courts the proceedings were pending 16 first-degree cases and 3 second-degree cases. Also, when the Strategy was adopted, it was registered in the prosecutions and 2,692 pending "KTARZ" cases, meaning an undefined criminal offence or perpetrator and 517 unsolved KTNRZ cases, a specific criminal offence with an unknown perpetrator. On 30.11.2016, according to data from the system for automatic administration of cases in courts and prosecutors, there were 434 "KTRZ" applications and 485 "KTRZ" investigations. In the courts there were 195 first-degree cases and 36 second-degree cases. On the same day, 30.11.2016, it was recorded that the prosecutions had in operation 90 KTARZ’ cases in the application phase, 258 unsolved KTNRZ’ cases in the application phase and 268 unsolved KTNRZ’ cases in the investigation phase. In response to the third question, VSTV provided the following information. According to data provided by the Court of Justice of BiH between 2003 and 2016, the Court reached a total of 346 verdicts in which KZ BiH was applied in 248 cases, while in 98 cases it was applied to KZ SFRY. And this, out of the 177 first-degree rulings of the KZ BiH was applied in 134 cases, while in 43 cases the KZ SFRY was applied. Out of 161 second-degree rulings, KZ BiH was applied in 51 cases, while in 110 cases, KZ SFRY was applied. Of a total of 8 third-degree rulings The KZ BiH has been applied in 4 cases, while the KZ SFRY has been applied in 4 cases. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As far as concrete crimes are concerned, we will provide the honourable representative with a written reply due to a large number of data. In response to the fourth question, VSTV provided the following information. From 2003 to 2016, the BiH Court reached a total of 177 first-degree and 161 second-degree verdicts, and 8 third-degree rulings in war crimes cases, while courts in entities and Brcko District made a total of 295 first-degree, 227 second-degree and 16 third-degree sentences in war crimes cases. In response to the fifth question, VSTV met the Justice Ministry that it was unable to provide data on the nationality of persons who were convicted of war crimes in the first-degree criminal proceedings before the BiH Court of Justice. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16379	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. I would only ask that you really understand the answers at the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, that we do not come into an unpleasant situation to warn you. Commentary, esteemed representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16380	Nothing, so I thank the minister and expect an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16381	Thank you very much. I now give the word to the honourable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16382	I thank the chairman. I remind you that this is a question I orally asked at last session of the House since 18.01, but the foreign minister was not present at the time. The Rules of Procedure obliges him to respond at the next House session, I will repeat the question, it says – How many countries have abolished visas for ordinary holders, stressing the ordinary, travel documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina between 31/03/2015 and 17/01/2017, so the current Council of Ministers' meeting? In response, please do not provide information concerning visa waivers for holders of diplomatic and official travel documents. I also use the rest of this time to stress that when MPs do not get an answer at the first session at which they are placed, they are disabled at the next session, because we do not now have the right to a new question. So I'm asking, here for the third month in a row the same question, so I'm really asking that the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers take this issue more seriously to answer parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16383	Thank you very much. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16384	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable College, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs. Before I specifically answer this question that was asked just before by the honourable Member of Arnaut, I must take the opportunity to make an apology once again, even though I did it last time I was here, indeed, which I am certainly, without competition, least present of all the cologne from the Council of Ministers at the sittings and that it is exclusively related to my activities that are in most countries outside of the country. And really when I'm here, I'll make sure I'm here as much as I can and I'll be as available to you and past the session. I don't think it was as much a problem as the sessions themselves. 4 As regards the specific issue, Bosnia and Herzegovina concluded a visa waiver agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on visa-free travel signed in Tirana on 22.05.2015 during the requested period from 31.03.2015 to 17.01.2015. The President of the Republic of Belarus signed Decision No 8 which entered into force on 12.02 this year, and according to which citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina carry ordinary passports travelling to Belarus by air via Minsk airport, except for those arriving in Minsk from the territory of the Russian Federation or continuing their flight to the Russian Federation, the entry and stay for up to five days without a visa in the Republic of Belarus is approved. On 17 March 2016, the President of the Republic of Indonesia signed a document eliminating visas for short-term visits to Indonesia for 30 days for citizens of 169 countries, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. It also refers to ordinary passports. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16385	Thanks for the answer. Your Honor, do you need to comment? Mr. Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16386	I thank the chairman. So, the data is even more catastrophic than I am, I had even the information that in that period, four states that had lifted our visas for ordinary passports, it turns out that there are only three, three of which are Belarus and Moldova and Indonesia. So what is particularly devastating during the term of office of the esteemed Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina fell from 42nd to 52nd in these two years. And, uh, that all indicates that we have a really bad practice of the Foreign Ministry when it comes to this area. As for the presence of the sittings, I also remind you that here is the Secretary of the House who knows very well, for the sixth time I am asking the same question to the Ministry in writing, and the sixth time the Ministry has answered that it does not want to answer. Here, if we can, and I'm with you ministers the last time you were here, there's more than a year, uh, talking about it, you promised it would be settled, and it hasn't been settled so far. Six times I asked the Ministry the same question, six times, the Home Secretary can confirm, I got an answer that you don't want to give an answer. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16387	Thank you. Please respect the weather. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, as far as I can see, is not present in the hall, so I give the word to the honourable representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16388	The Honorable Chairman, the prices of colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. My question asked by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH is – a special Variety of Seeds and Fruit Material at the state level was adopted in 2010. Since then, no more changes have been made. In the EU, a large number of varieties and 5 hybrids of plant seed are produced each year that are far more profitable than existing varieties and hybrids on our market. Our country is therefore lagging behind in the agrarian for countries in the region. New varieties and hybrids produced each year are being examined and adopted on the EU Sort List. Last year, Republika Srpska adopted a full copy of the EU Sort List, while the Federation of BiH did nothing in the field. The Federation is therefore in an unequal position. In that entity, importers, compared to Republika Srpska, and in Republika Srpska, import more recent varieties and hybrid seeds and fruit material, agricultural plants, while importers to the Federation of BiH cannot import new varieties and hybrids of agricultural plants. There are still a small number of varieties and hybrids of seeds and fruit material that are not produced by developed agrarian countries or products in minimal quantities which will make it difficult for us to reach these minimum amounts of seed and fruit matter in this time of globalisation. The list of seeds, the same seed, enters the border crossings towards Republika Srpska only for importers from Republika Srpska, while farmers from the Federation cannot introduce the same goods at those crossings because it is not on the Sort List. I can't even sell myself in Federation territory. My question from this, I purposely gave my first explanation to get the Minister's question out of this – is this information correct and when the Council of Ministers will harmonize, whether the law in this area or some legal act, or regulation, or possibly adopt a new Sort List at a state level? [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16389	Thank you very much. Dear Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16390	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you as well as the College, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps at the very beginning one or two small corrections, and most of them, I would say even the answers you gave in your question. Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2010 sort list was updated once again in 2012. A small correction for the second part, according to our findings, Republika Srpska did not fully copy the EU's Sort List, but without questioning it signed the sort lists of neighbouring countries of Hervatska and Serbia, but it is true that since November 2013, the process of examining and entering new varieties has been blocked in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Sort list, which is the most tolerated by farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there are many new quality varieties that cannot be found on the national Sort list. For a reminder of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 2005, there has been a law, at the state level, on seeds and fruit material. The reason for the blockade of work on the entry of new varieties lists lies because representatives from Republika Srpska do not participate in the work of the Joint State Committee on Variety, and the lack of an opinion on the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Commission, making it practically impossible to register new varieties from which all of these problems arise throughout the agricultural sector, but especially for the Federation, which considers it necessary to update Bosnia and Herzegovina's Sort List. Republika Srpska also started establishing an entity register of varieties, and the BiH Foreign Trade Policy Act, Article 6, stipulates that imports and imports of goods are provided under the same conditions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I purposely quote this member, because setting up the Sort List in only one part, whether it is a Federcija or a Republika Srpska, practically complicates and does not allow the realisation of the key provisions of the Foreign Trade Act. 6 The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in recent weeks makes efforts to update Bosnia and Herzegovina's Sort List, and we will give you a broader answer, given that this is a two-minute response, and that is, give you more concrete answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16391	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16392	Well, here, I'm happy with the answer. It was deliberately a matter of some things that I expected through the answer to be confirmed, through confirmation of this answer. You yourself said you'd deliver a written reply, I'd like to get a written answer. Only this question, then, has potentiated some things in this area, and it is clear that this area needs to be arranged and there are irregularities. Whether it's copying from neighbouring countries or not, but the fact that there must be state law here, a state list, and in that sense I would like the Ministry to continue its activities. And I'll ask for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16393	Thank you very much. The word now has a respected representative, Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16394	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, respected ministers. My parliamentary question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, i.e. Minister of Transport and Communications of BiH. You gave public authority to certification vehicles,..., technical inspection of vehicles for international traffic, AD permits for transport of dangerous substances,... of all types of vehicles, passenger, freight and trailers to the engine of the Shiroki Brijeg, is the carrier of these jobs. Eco test, a new vehicle testing introduced since 2017 is also a business carrier of the Center engine Široki Brijeg. Vehicle type-approval of the EIB Banja Luka consortium, the Shiroki Brijeg Motor Centre and the Sarajevo Traffic Institute, only one physical person. Technical examinations at the Federation of BiH Center engine Široki Brijeg and.../hard to understand what the MP is saying/... At the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a consortium consisting of EIB Banja Luka, the Chiroki Brijeg engine centre and the Sarajevo Institute of Transport and Communications, one natural person. In all areas, the Centre's engine, they used to be both IPI and..., but they were expelled, they remained only for technical tests where the smallest profit is. There's a consortium of three engineering colleges, but it's like they're not there, because they all hung up, almost all the technical checks. Central Insurance Property Center engine Wide Brieg mass rents them or where they can buy technical inspection stations and give... huge rents, because... their insurance, have... the other above mentioned... My question is: Who, when and how gives public authority to almost the same entities? Is there a conflict of interest, given that there has been... insurance as co-owner, appears Central Insurance as co-owner and interested party. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16395	Thank you. Mr. Jusko, the Honorable Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16396	Honored chairman, deputies, distinguished representatives of the media. Dear Representative Ahmetović, the tasks of vehicle certification shall be carried out in accordance with the Regulation on vehicle certification and the conditions to be met by the vehicle certification organisations from 2008 and the tasks carried out by two organisations and those you listed, the consortium within the Centre motor d.o.o. Široki Brijeg, institution of consortium, Institute of Transport and Communications d.o.o. Sarajevo, ADE “EIB Internacionale” Center for Motor Vehicles Banja Luka and Auto... center... Sarajevo. Vehicle type-approval operations shall be carried out in accordance with the Regulation concerning the type-approval of vehicles, parts, devices and equipment of the vehicle also from 2008, and shall be carried out by the consortium of professional organisations already mentioned. Jobs related to the eco-test as well as technical checks, as the distinguished representative stresses in his issue, are not in the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, and therefore the issue needs to be addressed to the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications as a competent institution. Also, the issues of rental or purchase of technical inspection stations and their purposes are... not within the authority of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport. What I would like to point out in particular is that I have given my colleagues, even before asking this question, to start working on the amendments and additions to that Regulation and that a very quick public call will go, where everyone else, as I say, will be able to run and apply for learners in all of these. So, for the first time since 2008, we are making a new public call and after that we will have official results that, I say, institutions meet the conditions for doing all these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16397	Thank you for your response and for respecting your time. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16398	Of course, I'm pleased with, uh, the answer and the intensity was to get to what the Honorable Minister was talking about and about this job that... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16399	Thank you, too. The word has a respected representative, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. 8 I refer the issue to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, an area where the Civil Protection Mechanism is. So Article 25(4) of the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina found that entities and the Brcko District of BiH adopted the Protection and Rescue Act as well as other regulations adopted and comply with the provisions of this Act within one year of the date of entry into force of the same. The harmonisation of the entity laws and laws of the Brcko District should be carried out in order to meet the legal obligation arising from the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue, as will be the condition for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the EU's International Civil Protection Mechanism, which has been defined by the competent institutions of the entity and the Brcko District. Question – Are the entity laws and Law of the Brcko District of BiH on protection and rescue in line with the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina? If so, why are we not already part of the Civil Protection Mechanism, or if this is not done, what appears to be harmonising this legal matter throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16401	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denis Zvizdi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16402	Dear Chairman, deputies, ladies and gentlemen, fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, distinguished media and guests, I welcome you all. Here we try, of course by the system of coffee 3 in 1, these three answers put in those two minutes, as far as possible, right. The first question is that the Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents of the Federation of BiH is in line with the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, while the Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in line with the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the difference is in at least 10 members in those laws. The Republika Srpska government adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Rescue in emergency situations of Republika Srpska, but no necessary changes have been made to comply with the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As regards membership in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, Bosnia and Herzegovina sent the request immediately after the 2014 flood. A grant of 2.5m euros was also allocated for this. Out of the total amount of 1.5m euros, plans and evaluations are foreseen in the area of protection and rescue and fire protection in 10 municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and a million euros in equipment. For the second part, 1.5m euros in co-operation with the entity civil protection administrations and the Brcko District Department, as well as representatives of the European Commission delegation, the Ministry of Security of BiH has drafted a draft document and a delegation from the European Commission has announced a tender for the selection of EU member states or agencies from EU member states to implement the project. This tender lasts until March 21st this year. The European Commission, i.e. a European Commission delegation, implements a full procedure on the issue and after 9 successfully implements all the necessary planned activities, will discuss the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. As far as the third issue of the BiH Council of Ministers has been concerned, it has not taken action to harmonise the Law itself for the reason that the obligation of the entity government and the Brcko District of BiH is in accordance with Article 25(4) of the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, within a year of the adoption of the Framework Law on Protection and Rescue, to comply with its protection and rescue laws. So, the Federation did so, the Brcko District did so, unfortunately neither the amendments and additions to the Law in Republika Srpska do comply with the Law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope that happens. After this tender, all the necessary activities will be carried out quickly so that it is certain that we can become a member in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16403	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16404	It's just that I thank the chairman, part of these facts I knew, and here's a little bit of reason why we're here in the parliamentary benches and the public, in some way, this, I remind you, we have this problem, because it's a little bit illogical, here's that the Armed Forces and police structures already participate in international missions, means that we're part of this international activity, and that in this part of civil protection, that is, in the part of the rescue and protection of people and material goods, here's because of the lack of compliance of the Law in the Republika Srpska entity with the Framework Law, we didn't get that opportunity. I hope we are taking part in this international part, because it is also, in my opinion, a presentation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I hope that the Council of Ministers, even though it has not participated more significantly so far, as the chairman said, in part of talks with the entity government of Republika Srpska, will make an additional effort to remove this part of the bad situation in this legal matter in the coming period and make Bosnia and Herzegovina part of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16405	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16406	Thank you. Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I have a question for the Council of Ministers. In fact, last year we've been reviewing the Law on State Property of BiH, so I'm asking today -- why didn't the Law on the Use and Management of State Property of BiH go to parliamentary procedure by the end of December 2016, as was the obligation of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of the Council of Ministers, because it was the conclusion of this House? 10 Namely, this legal project is one of the strategic laws in each country, because a country without its property becomes a fiction that is unquestionably moving towards its division. This finding also hides the reason for the conscious resistance of the forces of destruction and the division of this country, as well as the wings "who is the pit". Our country shows an incomprehensible relationship to the state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose value is valued at a minimum of 50 billion marks. Property collapses, traffic, alienation, and seems to be a legal mess in this area, which the state unfortunately does not care about. That's why I'm asking urgently for the law to return to procedure, to consider this House, a team more because the bill, as I'm unofficially informed, has already been done.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16407	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance and Treasury, Reverend Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16408	Hello, everyone. At the question of the honourable representative, Mr Mehmedović, I can conclude that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury is not the address responsible for this issue. I will give an explanation, the Law on the Use and Management of State Property, which needs to be addressed to the Committee on State Property, which is formed by the Council of Ministers Decision and which gives jurisdiction to propose laws on the use and management of property. This question could also be asked to the Council of Ministers, as you have asked, but then addressed to the Ministry of Finance, given that the Council of Ministers established this commission which unfortunately did not do its job. For reasons of reminders, the Commission for State Property has prepared several drafts for the Council of Ministers since its founding, but it has not been possible for any of them to reach agreement. The latest draft law, in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, prepared a working group containing three ministers, Mr. Čolak, Mr. Nović and Mr. Hadžić. They were doing that bill with their associates. Immediately after delivering the Council of Ministers for consideration, Mr Hadžić withdrew his consent to the proposed text of the law, so the draft law was withdrawn from the process of reviewing the Council of Ministers. It is also true that, in accordance with the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury has so much responsibility for the management of property owned by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, without the legal framework adopted, it is simply not possible to implement and consume this jurisdiction. On this occasion, I also inform you that at the 52nd session, the Council of Ministers discussed the Information of the President of the Committee on State Property, which contained all the facts and facts relating to the problem in this area. A conclusion has been reached that we have tasked the Ministry of Justice to propose amendments to the Decision replacing the members of the Committee, since most members are no longer working in the institutions that have delegated them. We have also reached a conclusion asking the new commission to continue their activities in the adoption of the Law on State Property. So the Council of Ministers has already taken action on this issue. In the justification of your question and the arguments that have been made, I fully agree and this needs to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16409	Thank you very much. Commentary, distinguished representative Mehmedović. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16410	Well, look, I've carefully addressed and referred the question to the Council of Ministers who appointed this particular State Committee and who is making an account to the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I feel that I have made no mistake when it comes to the address to whom this question has been addressed. Of course, I'm not satisfied with the situation, the answer is as it is, but it seems to me that an effort is being made to reach some political consensus when it comes to resolving the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's state property. I think this Council of Ministers has the strength and capacity to achieve this political consensus, however, and finally that law gets the green light in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16411	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, let's not wait for the end of the device to register so we can go after the device. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16412	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respect for all present, my fellow MPs and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers. The question I refer to, I refer it to the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Defence and all of us. The Dayton Peace Agreement defined overall relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also relations concerning regional stability. The I-A Annex concerning part of the military agreement, which was signed by no guarantors other than Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia, defined internal relations in the region. These internal relations in the region are very precisely structured in Annex I-A, as well as in Annex I-B. In Annex I-A, the overall ratio of the internal forces of the States signatories of Annex I-A of the Dayton Peace Agreement has been defined. It states precisely that the total internal structure relating to three aspects, the number, the weapons and the structure, is a ratio of 4:2:2. This means that the total number of physical Military forces in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a factor 4, in the Republic of Croatia factor 2, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2. Also, in the overall arms structure in all segments [[Employee is warned on time]] From the most sophisticated, aviation, to that infantry, the ratio is 4:2:2. [[Employee is warned on time]] We're witnessing that it's happening today. that our neighbors carry out arms, carry out through the relationship 4:2:2 structure of the total number of states, as well as the creation of something that does not fall within the framework of the military, but is without dilemma according to the structure of the whole military, [[Employee is warned on time]] The underground, the special, the kind, the kind... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16413	Thank you, Mr. Backović. You've spent more of your time than you've spent. If there is anyone, thank you very much, if there is anyone from the Council of Ministers, I have warned you four times, you do not care at all about what I warn. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16414	12 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16415	Well, then you have this reaction. Is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who can answer this question? If not, please, the question is delivered in writing, deliver the answer in writing. And now I give my word to the honourable representative, Safer Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16416	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I welcome everyone present. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and that reads – Are other legal and sublegal acts prescribed by the 2015 Customs Policy Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina also adopted? If I remember correctly, there are three members of this Customs Policy Act that need to adopt certain other acts to make this Customs Policy Act operational, so to speak. I am, of course, obliged to give and explain, this question was asked for the last session because of all these events, here's what happened, for this session I have a partial answer to this question,...through the agenda, but here I would pray if you could have one complete answer at some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16417	Thank you. The word has a respected foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr. Šarović. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16418	Thank you, Chairman. Just for a reminder, the Customs Policy Act was adopted in 2015, about half of the year, in July, and in accordance with this Law for its full implementation, it was necessary to adopt more implementing acts within six months, including the one you speak of and delays, certainly on this matter, and I would like to remind you that all implementing acts are adopted by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Law, the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In this regard, it was more urgent for business operators to rush with implementing acts by the External Chamber of Commerce, various other associations, the chamber system in entities themselves, the businessmen themselves, and the Ministry itself has had more consultation with the Indirect Taxation Administration on this matter, of course, to come to this implementing act. This relates essentially to the implementing act referred to in Article 208. The law on equipment and special, means, equipment under Article 207 of this Act, and related to equipment, for the release of equipment from customs duties for manufacturing equipment not manufactured in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is imported for enlargement, for new production, modernisation, etc. During the last consultations with the Indirect Taxation Administration, we found that the Administration had prepared an implementing act, at the moment, to sum up the objections of the interested, but since this implementing act could be applicable, it is also necessary to amend the Tax Act on an additional value. In January of this year, the Council of Ministers referred the law to a parallel procedure in order to bring the package into practice. We'll deliver a broader written response to you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16419	Thank you. Dear Representative Safer Demirović. Do you have a comment? You don't. Thank you very much. You can't get a word to Mr. Backović. This is now the phase in which parliamentary questions and answers are going. He's got a Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16420	But I'm right...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16421	You can't, please, the word has a gentleman, the word has Mr. Hazim Rančić, the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16422	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. My question is focused on Minister Ismir Jusk, Minister of Communications and Transport – How long has it been since the course was set for the construction of a fast road in Sarajevo-Belgrade? Namely, we have all the information that Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Turkey's investors are conducting activities on the construction of this road and in late December several fellow MPs and I have submitted an initiative towards the Minister and the Council of Ministers on the establishment of this route, with our proposal that this should go through Tuzla, Brcko and Bijeljina. I see in the answers to today's session, about our initiative, that it has an answer, but I would certainly ask that you, that you respond today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16423	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16424	Your Honor, this is one of the most frequently asked questions in the past month. I will give you the freshest information, the last meeting we had with the entity ministry representatives was more informative, to bring all the routes proposed, and at that moment we had eight defined routes, or proposals to connect Sarajevo with Belgrade. At this point, however, we are unable to provide any more precise information that will be on the route until we meet with the Turkish investor. 15 days ago, I had an opportunity to speak to our ambassador to Turkey who I said I would like to be scheduled to meet with the investor and with all those who represent the institutions in front of Turkey, and they can give us this answer. Tomorrow I set up a meeting with a representative of the Turkish Embassy, the Turkish ambassador, and only after returning from that meeting will I have the exact information that is the way of funding, whether it is a loan, whether it is a private public partnership, and already all the small details, I apologize, the large details we need to know clearly define the route. Like I said, at this point we have eight on the table, but none of them are favored. Once we get feedback, then we'll know which way to go. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16425	Thank you, Minister. Dear Representative Hazim Rančić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16426	I am pleased that there are eight of these possible routes, because in the response we received from the initiative, which we submitted on the 12th, late 12th month, counterparts Fazlić, Demirović, Denis, Damir Bećirović, co-worker Đonlagić, we suggested that the route go towards Tuzla, Brčko and Bijeljina. In fact, I would love to, and I think it would be normal for the professional criteria to be respected in determining that route, and from the people involved in the construction of highways and fast roads, I was informed that all the arguments on the side of the route we suggested. Both demographic and economic, economical, traffic, the number of vehicles that pass daily, the amount of transport of people, goods, etc., so this route deserves attention, and in response that we all got together on our initiative, which was not the last time I asked the question, unfortunately only two routes were treated, and this is Sarajevo-Vardište-Wardishte and others, so the analysis of Banja Luka-Dobo – Tuzla – Zvornik– loznica-Ruma-Novi Sad. [[Employee is warned on time]] I ask that our initiative be taken into account and explained with all arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16427	Thank you. Before we move forward, I therefore find that, under Rule 167(4) of the Rules of Procedure, it is prescribed that the MP may say whether or not he is satisfied with the answer to the parliamentary question, giving reasons for a period of up to one minute. If not satisfied with the reply, the representative may request the delivery of the reply in writing within 15 days. This results in that if there is no answer, then there is nothing to comment on, but so far we have given this right, and I would not want to deny anyone and I am giving the honourable representative Zaim Backović a minute. Here you go. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16428	Thank you. And I would ask you to treat all MPs equally. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16429	That's how it's gonna be, and that's how it is all the time. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16430	I don't know if it's all the time, but it is, I can see it's not. I can't understand that no one from the Council of Ministers, so no one from the Department of Defense can, or won't, or knows how to respond to what I've set up. It says precisely that there must be a body that will coordinate with Annex I-A, a body composed of members of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, of course now it is Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. That body doesn't exist, it doesn't work, and the peace agreement has been completely violated. Annex I-A has been run over, because what's being structured in our neighborhood doesn't correspond to what's been signed and what is said to be 15 guarantors have signed. I ask you to, since you said that the Council of Ministers, and that I asked that question as well. who is in charge, to the Presidency, to deliver to me in writing the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the obligations and the Ministry of Defence. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16431	Thank you very much. We heard, so it will be done. The word has a respected representative, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16432	I thank and greet all those present in the O.R. But before I ask the question, since the foreign minister is present, I would take the opportunity to remind him that I asked the foreign ministry myself, Mr. Crnadk, 1612, and I haven't received an answer yet. I beg if you can give me that answer as soon as possible. As far as the question is concerned, my question has been updated, in fact, following a World Health Organization report on the state of the sign in certain environments, where a particularly infamous second place, therefore high in a negative sense, took the city of Tuzla in air pollution. I would like to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, given that as an MP, but above all as a citizen of Tuzla interests me – is the Council of Ministers of BiH familiar with the World Health Organization data? If so, does the BiH Council of Ministers have data on which the mortality or disease caused by pollution is rated? Has the BiH Council of Ministers taken any action on this issue? If so, what are the activities and what are the results so far? If not, why didn't it do so, and when and what activities of the BiH Council of Ministers intend to undertake to change the current situation for the better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16433	Thank you. There's a word, please introduce yourself, Deputy Minister. Here you go. _________(?) The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs has continued to implement reporting co-operation activities towards the World Health Organization. In order to meet Bosnia and Herzegovina's international obligations in the field of reporting and thus to the World Health Organisation, the Ministry of Civil Affairs in co-operation with the entities' health ministries each year determines a review of Bosnia and Herzegovina's obligations to international health reporting for the coming year. The World Health Organisation has never requested data from the health authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the purposes of the air pollution database in the cities of the world, and therefore the data provided by the Ministry of Civil Affairs have not been delivered. The Ministry of Civil Affairs does not have data on mortality due to air pollution, since the Institute or the Institute of Public Health do not have in their statistical programmes a defined indicator of the percentage of mortality caused by environmental factors. The same data is obtained only on the basis of certain research and evaluations. The ministry of civil 16 jobs, aware of the dangers of air pollution in Bosnia and Herzegovina's cities, with a special reference to Sarajevo, Zenica and Tuzla, addressed the World Health Organization in December 2016 to obtain technical and other support in preparing a report on the impact of half-seats on the health of the population, which would allow activities to be launched to address this very important health problem. In line with the obligations of... a declaration relating to the protection of children's health, from areas caused by environmental factors, and the improvement of basic environmental health conditions for children of the European region, the Ministry of Civil Affairs prepared a proposal for a project and held a series of meetings and consultations with entity health ministries, public health services to find a way to carry out the same activities. The ministry of civil affairs also sought support under the UN environmental protection programme, to create a health, environment and transport Action Plan. Also, the Ministry of Civil Affairs is currently in communication with the Swedish Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology to prepare a modelling project for air quality, as well as an assessment of the main causes of pollution that will certainly serve as a pre-study to the UN Action Plan on Health, Transport and Environmental Protection. Thank you. Thank you, Deputy. The word has a distinguished representative, Đonlagić, a comment, is it? If you like, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16435	Of course, the answer shows that the gentleman who filed, uh, that burden to give the answer knows what it's about. But I'm not happy with the answer, because the answer doesn't offer me anything concrete, and the question was concrete. If there were no exposés of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and it was not in this way the Council of Ministers also took over certain obligations concerning the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina when this issue, this issue, is on the agenda, but the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular in three cities, Sarajevo, Tuzla, pardon, yes, Sarajevo, Tuzla and Zenica is extremely alarming and this requires urgent measures. This is all we've talked about here is long-term measures that require time, and the problem is not solved. I really ask that all those who are invited and responsible for such a problem do as soon as possible and as much as possible to solve this truly dramatic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16436	Thank you very much. Dear representative Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16437	Thank you, Chairman. I warmly welcome all those present. I refer the question to the BiH Council of Ministers. So, in the context of all the more ongoing problems with the alleged institutional inequality of the constituent peoples, I also ask the question – How many among the executives of the ministers, in any case more interesting, directors, their deputies, assistants, secretaries there are Bošnjak, Hrvat, Srbin and so on. The others, separately according to functions including all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the state level. More specifically, I ask the Council of Ministers to provide us with 17 aggregated data, such as the national representation of the current management staff in the state institutions, i.e. how many in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in those 70, I think, among the executive staff there are Bošnjak, how many Hrvat, how many Srbin and ostali. I think it's important to add that in my explanation, I listed the following. In view of the fact that the story of the threat of one constitutive nation versus another, or of two constituent nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in recent times, has clearly gone from chronic to an acute phase, I consider it to be a very important consideration of the real situation in the conduct of this type of equality of constituent peoples and other citizens, especially in order to stabilise the socio-political situation and interethnic relations in the sense that, or (a) we are necessarily correcting ourselves if this type of institutional equality is not shown in any of the ethnicities of one another, or that, b) we finally put a point on tendensive political manipulations if this type of institutional equality is not questioned. I had an important note, I think, if I could just take a second, since it's generally known that it's so institutional. national equality and legally regulated by binding to the last census or the one in '91, means that it is constitutionally guaranteed. [[Embassy is warned on time]] It's expected that the data, so I expect the answer, The data I'm looking for is not only transparent but easily available, so here are the services to answer. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16438	Thank you very much. The word has been respected by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16439	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the honourable representative for the matter. I will give you an overview of the national representation of the management staff in all the state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and on the basis of the facts, everyone will be able to judge whether it is institutional equality or institutional inequality when we talk about the management staff at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the table I will submit you have the names and last name of the holder of the function, the dates of appointment, the term of office on which these officials are appointed, the name of the function which he behaves and the nationality of the person who acts, so that we do not have the information about the party membership of the holder of the function, nor can we provide you with such information. At the end of this review, which is really very comprehensive, I cannot read it completely, therefore I will deliver the answer to you and in written form, the situation is the following – of a total of 205 function holders at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Srbin is 69 plus 1, which has a function at this time, the Bošnjak is 68, the Hrvat is 61 and the ostali is 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16440	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vajzović, comment. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16441	I have no comment, except to thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers for his reply, and I have also asked for one review in my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16442	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16443	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. My question was also addressed to Mr. Petrov, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and the question is – Did you discuss the need for a more urgent session of the two states of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia at which the Interstate Agreement on the Use of Hydroaccumulation would finally be concluded? I asked this question at the 37th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, and then I also stressed that I wanted to be delivered in writing, following an oral reply in writing. Of course, I have never received that written answer, and I have taken over from the stenogram what the chairman of the meeting then said to me – that it is one of the most powerful issues that he, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, will delegate and react more pro-mptuously to this problem. So, on the website of a statement from a meeting with a respected delegation from the Republic of Croatia, we were able to read again, of course, that Croatia as a state will not interfere with the internal policy of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I, in fact, constantly tormenting that no one from the Bosnian Herzegovic delegation has the answer that they and cannot interfere with the internal policies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they have something that they should and must say when they are very concerned about the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that they care very much, so that it would be to prevent the economic poverty of Hrvat and leaving, when they are already committed to the Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their constitutionality, to sign this Treaty as much as possible in order to prevent us as Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular Canton 10, finally began to charge interest that we have, and compensation for the use of the accumulation of the Bulgarian Lake, which is the largest artificial lake in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16444	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16445	Thank you to the honourable representative for asking. Before answering, of course, I would like to reiterate the conclusion that Croatia is the first neighbour and friend of Bosnia and Herzegovina with which we have a border of nearly a thousand kilometers long and therefore we want to really build good neighbourly and friendly relations, without any bilateral problems within our relations. The 19-nation delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina was a delegation from the Croatian Parliament without members or representatives of the Croatian government, so we did not discuss specific issues with them, except that we also agreed that we were preparing materials that would be the subject of a joint session session of two governments that would follow very quickly. So, as for the Council of Ministers, all the ministries in the Council of Ministers, all the accompanying agencies and directors have prepared their proposals, including this topic that you spoke of. So, on our part, we have precisely defined topics that we will propose for a joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I have information that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also prepared its themes. The exchange of these topics will be within the next few weeks so that probably a joint session will be held either at the end of April or during May, where there will certainly be a question on which you spoke. It is run by Bosnia and Herzegovina, very clearly explained and we hope that we will certainly come across the understanding of the relevant representatives and ministries in front of the government of Croatia, and that we will come up with those solutions which, in accordance with international laws, are in line with the obligations that the Republic of Croatia has in this regard and that will certainly be of mutual satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16446	Thank you. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16447	I'd like to really chair if I could trust you on your word, especially as you say it will be held, uh, a quick session of the two governments. I will remind you of October 2016, if I am not mistaken, September, October, Mr Plenković, Prime Minister of the Government, came to Bosnia and Herzegovina, again there was no, uh, clear communication on this topic at all, whether you have even delegated it as the next one, for the next meeting. And this in your presentation of bilateral problems and borders, so I learned geography in the elementary school in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am quite clear on the extent of the border between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Does that also mean that bilateral problems, we will not touch anything, so let ours go to our harm, that we would not somehow as a good neighbouring country endanger, for God's sake, the Republic of Croatia. And the fact that all the constituent nations are at risk, and when we talk about these in Canton 10, it is too much to mention that the Hrvat are at risk, because, the Republic of Croatia is highly entrenched for the position of Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm going to point out that you know very well who rules in these cantons and that it would be very important that these parties also potentiate and delegate, i.e. that already in this one One year, in the middle of this year, you hold a government session as soon as possible to at least do something for these people. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16448	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16449	Thank you, Chairman. 20 My question also concerns enormous air pollution primarily in Tuzla, but here in some other cities, as my colleague Đonlagić said. We are aware, and we have seen all of this data from a colleague, Đonlagić, that it is about the values that are life-threatening for the population of Tuzla. At its meeting of 30.12.2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a National Plan to reduce harmful emissions from the major deposits of Bosnia and Herzegovina that define the reduction of harmful emissions, also from Tuzla Termoelectrica, an example. – Does the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations implement any measures on this matter that would protect the lives of citizens in Tuzla and other cities, and are you aware of whether the BiH Elektroprivreda respects the obligations defined in the NERP document in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16450	Thank you very much. Minister, respected Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16451	Thank you, Chairman. This is in some way a follow-up to the question of another MP, his question, and this is the answer from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in the part in which the ministry is responsible. I would like to remind you from the very beginning that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Contracting Party to the Energy Community Agreement has an obligation to reduce harmful emissions from so-called. large combustion plants, which are more thermal power plants in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Natron Maglaj, heat and others, some other entities that release harmful, harmful emissions, harmful matter. The Ministry, in this sense, has an obligation to adopt the so-called The NERRP, i.e. the National Emission Reduction Plan, which is to be verified by the Energy Community Secretariat and its main role. In other activities, the Ministry has a co-ordinated role, given the authority of entities and cantons and some other levels of government in this area. At the Council of Ministers, you noted, the Ministry proposed, and the Council of Ministers adopted, the National Plan for Emission Reductions for Bosnia and Herzegovina and on 31 December 2015 delivered it to the Energy Community Secretariat, which gave it a positive opinion during 2016, and we are the first in the region to adopt this National Plan. It's this so-called. The NERP, i.e. the National Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina, should first and foremost implement European directives in this area before, under the most important Directive 2001/80 of the European Commission. Otherwise, the obligation of the electricity industry in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Elektroprivrede and Republika Srpska's Elektroprivredje po NERP is to deliver evidence of the provision of financial resources and a plan for the implementation of measures that would reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and solid particles to the quantities, i.e. the ceilings foreseen by the National Plan. Associations, i.e. the Tuzla Clean Air Group, addressed the foreign trade ministry and economic relations recently, several weeks ago, we informed the Federation of BiH's competent ministry, waiting for an answer on what they had done on this issue, but we also addressed BiH's Elektroprivreda to deliver information to us as far as they arrived with the development of the plan and the provision of funds. We also had a consulting conversation. on this matter. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The obligation certainly exists from the Elektroprivreda BiH, we are waiting for a written reply, we will deliver it to you as soon as 21 we get it from the Elektroprivreda. And this is not just a commitment to NERP, this is a commitment to the citizens, and in that sense, the Ministry will forward all the information it has to to both you and the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16452	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16453	Thank you to the Honorable Minister for the exhaustive response, with me being a little bit, I have to comment because I also asked because you also have the sector, within the Water Resources and Environmental Protection Sector that is once in the past, there have been even some concrete measures taken by your Ministry on this issue of pollution. Of course, this is one of the burning problems, especially when it is known, you said, since 01.01.2018, we are entering a phase when probably, I suppose, again, we will come under the sanctions of the European Energy Community and we will not be able to export electricity, we will not be able to participate in the European Energy Community projects and we will be blocked financial resources concerning, in this area of energy. So I don't believe that the electricity industry will first of all meet those conditions that we have to meet under this Treaty that we signed, and I'm guessing it's one of the burning problems that we should be dealing with. And I will also take the opportunity to remind Mr. Zvizdić to finally deliver an answer to the question from three months ago on the travel expenses of the Council of Ministers and others in... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16454	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16455	Good afternoon, everyone. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but I won't be angry if the resolution minister answers it, and that as well as the question of counterparts, Rančić, concerns plans around the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway, but in another context. In fact, here we have heard, and before that most often through the media we heard, after a joint session of the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on serious activities related to the Sarajevo-Belgrade, and last night I heard from the minister, that there are eight or even twelve nice routes around it, as he put it, which the highway could go to. On the other hand, I would remind us all that half last year, the Council of Ministers adopted the Framework Strategy for Transport in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that document was also our main document and main argument at a conference in Paris from which, as far as I know, we also pulled some benefits. So my question is – How much are these activities related to the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway in line with this Transport Framework Strategy and do they keep in the Council of Ministers and Ministry that these activities should be in line with this Framework Strategy for Transport in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Namely, there is no road called Colloquial 22 Sarajevo-Belgrade in the Oviral Transport Strategy, but there are a number of high-ranking roads leading towards Belgrade. So, I'd like to hear, uh, how much are all these activities related to this roadway in line with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Framework Transport Strategy, a document that is just over half a year old? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16456	Thank you. Dear Minister of Transport and Communications, Mr. Ismir Jusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16457	Your Honor, I thank you for this question and I am telling you that one of the basic leaders was when we discussed these routes to be harmonised and that they are already in the Framework Strategy. I'll retati you that all eight of the routes proposed are already in the framework strategy plan. Of course, not one has been defined by this moment, but all proposals have already been made... through a network in our strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16458	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16459	I must say that I am not satisfied with the answer, I cannot keep all eight routes in line with the Transport Framework Strategy, because there are no such eight routes in the Transport Framework Strategy. There are two or three, one of them is compatible with the wishes of the people around Tuzla, it's a separation from Corridor 5c in Zepč, so the highway across Tuzla to Orasja. And there are a few more paths, but there are no eight. I would really like, in all the plans, the work of the Council of Ministers, the debates, and even the media statements, not to derivate the documents that we adopted and brought, if this, this, because this is the way we talk on this many routes. We must be aware that, uh, if there is a need absolutely no problem changing framework strategies, etc., different strategies, but we must clearly warn and stick to our documents and plans.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16460	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Diana Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16461	I thank and warmly welcome everyone. Lately, many have been calling for the original Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution came out of it, so I must mention that it is not respected, and it violates both the Constitution and human rights. Therefore, my question is intended for the Minister of Human Rights – What do you think to do to stop the systematic majorisation of members of the Croatian people in the Federation of BiH in the field of employment equality in federal ministries, as well as the irregular distribution of budget money from these ministries, which according to the '91 census list. must be in proportion of 23 1:2.3 in all segments, because according to this list of Bošnjak were 52.09 and Hrvat 22.13%, which systematically violates the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the European Convention on Human Rights on Discrimination, and the Constitution of BiH guaranteeing the equality of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Official information on the majorisation of the Croatian people in those areas is easy to identify by the number of employed members of the Croatian and Bosniak people in all ministries of the Federation of BiH, as well as an insight into the distribution of budget money. I must stress here that this specifically applies to the Ministry of Defence, where the distribution of money to the BiH Army Ministry is also a component of the HVO, according to my knowledge, 88:12% Bosniak provision, to the damage of the Croatian component, which is nowhere near 2.3:1 but mathematically approximately 8:1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16462	Thank you. The Honorable Minister for Refugees and Displaced Persons, Human Rights, Mrs. Semiha Borovac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16463	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs. Dear Representative Zelenika, concerning your question, I can say that immediately after receiving this delegation question we have passed the same to the Federation Government with a recommendation to deliver the same to all ministries so that we can get a clear and accurate answer and accurate data from the latest records of all federal ministries and in anticipation of this response I would ask that we answer you in writing when we receive all this information, because otherwise we would not be able to read about the law, about the equality of the Croatian people when it comes to these two significant issues – employment and budget money schedules in the Federation. And if, here, you respect us as soon as possible. Of course, he first answered us, although we received this issue on 02.03 by the Secretary General, but on 03.03. we passed it on to the Federation Government and we got an answer from the Federal Ministry of Combat Affairs, but it's not in the set and it's not what you asked for, so we're going to ask for an additional explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16464	Thank you. Honorable representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16465	I'm just going to thank the Honorable Minister and say that she is, in my opinion, one of the brightest points of this ministry because she is present at all of our sessions from the beginning to the end and I don't doubt a good answer in writing to which, here, I thank in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16466	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16467	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question concerns the adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Diaspora Act. For almost five years in various forms, I have proposed here in Parliament that Parliament give the green light and accept the idea of both Bosnia and Herzegovina getting the Diaspora Act. After several attempts, mainly due to the absence of the entity majority in the second round, in early 2015, parliament accepted my proposal. Since then, since 2015, this is no longer my proposal but the decision of the highest legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say, because of the lack of that law, I responsibly claim that Bosnia and Herzegovina lost hundreds of millions of marks in the post-day period. There are no countries in the region and beyond which there is no such law, and the obligation was, after the conclusion of the House of Representatives, to deliver the Council of Ministers of BiH by the end of 2015 to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's diaspora. It passed both in 2015 and 2016, here we are now in the third month of 2017, and such a law did not come to parliamentary benches. There are countless economic and other reasons why Bosnia and Herzegovina needs one such law. He needs not one nation but absolutely all the nations, given that in the diaspora we have both Bošnjak, Srbin, and Hrvat, and ostali and not just those who have left since '92. We've already got a diaspora before '92. A year. I think it's really a very important issue for Bosnia and Herzegovina, there's no reason to block it any further, and I remind you behind that proposal is now parlametan's decision. Therefore, general and necessary and entity majority. [[Employee is warned on time]] My question is – What is the Council of Ministers waiting for with such a law and why is it not implementing Parliament's decision?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16468	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Human Rights, Refugees and Displaced Persons, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16469	Dear Representative Bećirović, here, following your initiative to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Diaspora Act, the Council of Ministers held at the 22nd session, on 8 September 2015, concluded that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in co-operation with other competent institutions had prepared a policy proposal on co-operation with the diaspora aimed at a comprehensive approach to resolving the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the diaspora, first of all, for the reason that such a document did not exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina because Parliament did not support the adoption of legislation from this area in the previous two times. The above conclusion was also introduced, MEP Bećirović was also introduced on October 01st 2015. The task force formed by the Council of Ministers is the service of representatives of 12 institutions and so on – the BiH Presidency, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the BiH Central Bank, the Agency for Labour and Employment, the Statistical Agency, all Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Foreign Trade Chamber, the BiH Economic Planning Directorate, the Foreign Investments Agency in BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH, the Government of the Brcko District. The Republika Srpska government did not appoint its representatives to the Working Group, although it was invited. The working group prepared a draft policy towards emigration, held two public consultations and a round table on this subject, and then the Council of Ministers discussed this material at its session in December 2016. 25 Some suggestions have been given at the session for the correction of the text of the Policy Draft, and since these, that finalisation of this document is expected to end very quickly at the Council of Ministers' meeting, the draft policy towards the diaspora is found, that is, according to emigration as it has been prepared. The fact is that the deadline has indeed been extended, but you will understand that there have been certain intentions and that it has agreed and reached consensus among the members of the Council of Ministers on this issue, as well as the complete Working Groups working on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16470	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, Mr. Denis Bećirović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16471	I must say that I am dissatisfied with this answer the reason why I am unsatisfactory may lie in the first sentence of this answer. I also see on another question that this is being called your initiative. I remind you once again, it was my initiative until the moment Parliament is not clear. After the dom has declared that it is this Parliament's decision and I call on you, therefore, to treat it that way. Our system is thus set up not to establish the BiH Council of Ministers on the agenda of the BiH Parliament, but vice versa, Parliament is making decisions and the Council of Ministers should implement them. In this case, Parliament has made a decision and I will, therefore, insist on implementing Parliament's decision and I think the Council of Ministers must implement it, and I will continue to insist because it is in the interest of absolutely all the citizens and peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because such a law, as in other countries, needs to improve economic co-operation, cooperation on the educational agenda, in scientific research, in sport many other fields. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16472	I'd like to thank the representative. I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16473	Dear ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the minister of justice at the BiH Council of Ministers, which is – What criteria were managed by the Minister of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina when he appointed the newest Justice Examining Commission, by Decision of 21.02.2017? Is the principle of proportionate representation of the people in terms of composition, as well as the Commission's leadership, therefore respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16474	I thank the chairman. Answer, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Justice Minister, Mr. Josip Grubeša. Here you go. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16475	Thank you very, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, In short, Article 6 The law on the conduct of a judicial examination at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina is prescribed to be passed before the Committee for the Laying of the Judicial Exam, which consists of the president and four members from the list of interrogators. In accordance with the provisions of the Law of the President of the Commission, two deputies and 18 interrogators shall appoint a competent minister of justice at a time of two years from the order of graduate lawyers with a passed judicial examination which has been carried out in the judicial bodies, or by a lawyer, or by the state bodies of the administration, other institutions or other legal persons, have acquired a high reputation as a legal expert, as well as from the order of scientists in the field of legal science in the case under examination. The President of the Committee, his deputies and interrogators from the list are interrogators for certain items, and the appointment solution determines which of them is the subject-specific interrogator. The Commission's appointment decision, dated February of this year, proportionally represented all constituent nations, i.e. equal to the number of respondents from each constituent nation, although there is no explicit legal provision. Each of the interrogators shall satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 6(2) of the Law, i.e. by working in judicial bodies, or by law, or by law, or by the state authorities of the administration, or by other institutions or other legal persons, have acquired a high reputation as a legal expert, as well as from the order of the scientists in the field of legal science in the cases subject to this examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16476	I thank the minister. Commentary, chairman, Mr. Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16477	Dear Minister, I have asked this question very unhappily and I am not a man who asks such a kind of question, but I was not surprised that by who knows which times, and it is certainly the second time, that when it comes to the president and two deputies of this Commission, there are no representatives from the Bosniak people, so now you say whether it is okay or not, according to the Decision. Parity and proportion, you have now said respected is the principle of proportional representation by having determined the same number. Look, parity is equal to number, parity is prescribed by the Constitution, laws are prescribed, and it must always be respected wherever it is not, then it is a proportional system and this Commission belongs to that system. And you have to respect that, that's the Constitution of BiH. If you harm parity, then you insult the rights of collectiveity, and if you harm the proportional system, then you insult the individual rights of the people who live in this country. So that is one consistent ratio that exists in Bosnia and Herzegovina and must be respected. Smart people have always taken care of it, respect parity wherever it is prescribed and respect the proportional system everywhere where it is prescribed. On these principles, this country works. I ask that the Council of Ministers put this matter on the agenda of the session, that this be well analysed and that this disgrace be removed. It is a shame, Minister, that neither the president nor the two deputies, according to vaš rješenje, either of them is Bošnjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16478	I thank the chairman. I give my word to the honourable representative, Fehim Škaljić. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16479	Mrs. Krišto, Mr. Džaferović, Dr. Zvizdić, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My address to the Council of Ministers today is motivated by the need to invite citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to address Parliament more intensively. We are witnessing that we occasionally receive letters from the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that present certain assessments and suggestions, and most often the fate of these letters is unknown further. Recently, we received a letter from the citizens of Rifat Tirk from Sarajevo, who gave appropriate assessments, gave some recommendations, I did not communicate with the gentleman, nor do I know him, I do not know if those facts he commented on were founded, but the letter was sent to all of us, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and both entity governments. My question is – What is the fate of these letters, what are the answers and we need to know that citizens have the right to answer and that they should get the answer? The answers do not have to be a confirmation of what is being written, but they must be a determination of authority and support for citizens to communicate. We as Parliament are obliged to open that corridor and stimulate that the letters we receive are not deaf phones. That's why I've instructed, on the occasion of this, I'm writing to Mr. Tirk as an example of one of the letters, and there were others, a request to assess what it is. I do not expect to comment on this subject today, but I would ask the Council of Ministers that the letters that the citizens wrote to us and the Council of Ministers have an answer and that we know what that answer is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16480	Thank you. So, the oral response is obviously not available today. Mr. Škaljić, please comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16481	I did not expect a oral response today, I told the competent ministry to which this letter relates that it was only a letter from Mr Tirk for me to generalise the whole topic of communication between citizens and Parliament, citizens and authorities, that this communication must be two-way and in this sense seeking answers to what is the fate of the letters we receive.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16482	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this is how we ended up asking oral questions that we have combined with both the past and this session. Now we're moving on to the agenda. As for the addition of the agenda, I would like to point out the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-652/17, from 06.03.2017. 28 Point 4. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-653/17, from 06.03.2017. Point g) in point 14. Report on the Commission's work to prepare the election of the BiH Council of Ministers, issue 01/7-50-19-58/17, since 28.02.2017. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. The word came from a respected representative, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16483	Dear Chairman, deputies, fellow MPs, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, others present, I warmly welcome you all. On my behalf and on behalf of my colleague, Bećirović, I propose to supplement the agenda with the agenda item – Information on the Presidency Decision number and number, and in connection with the infringement of Annex VIII of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I'll explain the proposal to supplement the agenda. On 25 May 2016, the Bureau adopted a unanimous Decision authorising international members of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments from their duties. In addition, the Bureau made a decision on the same day to amend the decision-making procedure within the framework of this Commission, which previously meant the participation of one of the international members. Annex VIII of the Dayton Peace Agreement strictly states that the Commission is composed of five members, of which 3 from Bosnia and Herzegovina and 2 international. I also asked a parliamentary question in line with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Inzko, High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as regards the interpretation of this Presidency Decision and the violation of Annex VIII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the manner in which his Office reacted. Of course, I have not yet received an official response, but I see that OHR has appeared in the media by claiming that it is also a high representative and several bilateral donors, has warned members of the Presidency before taking this Decision that the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments and its work is being questioned by making such a decision. Since aneks vi of the dejtonski Peace Agreement has clearly defined something that the Presidency has defined differently, as the decision was reached unanimously. This session was chaired by Mr Izetbegović, who, if formally and suggested, voted and signed the decision published in the "Official List", number 42/16. Of course, there is legitimate concern that this is an introduction and perhaps even an alibi for other people and a violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement in its other annexes. It was also quite justified to open a debate on whether the issue of the international judges of the Constitutional Court would be resolved in the same way, perhaps by some agreement that came out almost a year after the deal happened. [[Employee is warned on time]] Here I am, respecting this time to stop here, and I suppose there will be opportunities for this important issue to be discussed by Parliament and possibly bring some of its views.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16484	Thank you very much. We have no material but to know. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16485	... We've got the material we're going to give... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16486	So, I'm saying what's up with us here, so now you know what you're gonna do in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Momčilo Novaković has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16487	Honored members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. Today, I received an updated agenda for the 42nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Last time we had an updated agenda for the 42nd session of the House of Representatives, then this could be an updated agenda for the extension of the 42nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. I don't think business is possible. We were given the agenda for the 42nd session and the 42nd session began, so today this is called the 42nd session extension. That agenda we got from the extended college for the 42nd session can only be extended here at the House vote session and nowhere else can it be done. So on today's agenda of 33 points, 19 points were not on the agenda of the 42nd session and none of these 19 of this House had a chance to declare whether it would be on the agenda or not. I don't think it's possible to talk about these points today unless the chairman proposes and we say each of them separately in this debate on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16488	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, yesterday at the College in an extended composition, I suggested that point 18 with, the one referring to the declaration, but as it is called, proposed by colleague Magazinović take off the agenda because she had no elements of the binding point There was a vote on the College in an extended composition and the point was therefore left on the agenda, the votes of colleagues from the Bosniak people. So, I would like to stay here today, with what I may, in a way, respecting, in some way, the fact that my colleague Magazinović, although there is no argument here, and there is this previous part, the introduction, which introduces us to what he later proposes in Resolution, is that, in one of the paragraphs, third, fourth, he said that, this, something about internal interference, by mixing into the internal affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I would suggest to him, therefore, that he withdraws this point and that he may prepare for the next session in which, therefore, he may wish all the members or let's say the PIC or the European Union to make good progress because a lot of them interfere in the internal affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why am I saying this? Because then it would be a complete approach to the subject, and I could support it. So there's a lot of really mixed-up countries here, so I'm even listed in the first item, so the State Department's views, so maybe the United States. It would be a good idea to pull that off, to make it a complete solution, because, uh, otherwise, if a fellow promoter doesn't want to, therefore, withdraw from today's session and suggest maybe similar to what 30 I'm saying, then I suggest, therefore, that this point from the agenda be taken down today. So, to take it off because this is not a wish, this is the BiH Parliament, this is a wish, so I think this is not a wish, and I would really like not to turn this Parliament into a disaster or a force about some desire for good progress, and above all because I am a member of a delegation, this, friendship with neighbouring countries, I don't know if my colleague Magazinović is in that, so I don't think this friendship is going to be built and that this resolution would then have a foothold, and the specials, uh, because so-called friendship. Left, though, this may be a proposal only for Mr Magazinović, I am not sure whether he is in front of the SDP, this one, because he is particularly interested in the work of representatives from the order of the Croatian people and in the country, and outside the country, and lately, the DF, this one, I guess, is on track. And I will also remind myself of the obligations and constitutional solutions that Croatia has in its Constitution and as signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement and obligations and constitutional, constitutional jurisdiction. But if, I say, he doesn't want to withdraw my proposal and accept it, then I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16490	Thank you. Word, correction of the wrong allegations, sir, honourable representative, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16491	As we are used to, colleague Lovrinović did not prepare for what he was talking about, because what he was talking about is not really the content of this document. On the contrary. This resolution is, in fact, an attempt for us as Parliament to once again claim that the advice and love that comes from neighbouring Croatia shows that love does not know the borders or even the interstate, and that at least partly in the same way we return that attention and love. So this, colleague Lovrinović, is all the opposite of what you were talking about. In doing so, this should not be puberty love, we have been 25 years old of independence, but we are entering a mature stage where this love should be accompanied by mutual respect. And that's why I really don't see why this positive thing would be taken off the agenda and I don't see it, I expected your support, and I expect it still, but the basic prerequisite for it is that you read what it says here and then we talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16492	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Denis Bećirović, please. I apologize, the correction of the wrong allegations, the esteemed representative Nikola Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16493	To answer in a package.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16494	You have the word, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16495	Thank you very much. 31 So, I have read again what it says here again, and I hope that the item will not remain on the agenda, because it would be too much to turn this Parliament into a wish, as I said, but here we will see how colleagues will plead. I hope that my colleague Magazinović has the mandate, therefore, that the part he speaks about this rezolicija, in one of the points, to represent some minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the minority group, that he has received from them the mandate to propose such solutions in the BiH Parliament. I sincerely hope that's the case. So, I remind again, the position of the constitutional Croatian state, and the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina in such mutual relations is not the same. I don't know what's not the same, so we could have suggested, for example, that we worry about bringing a resolution to the Bosniak, Bosniak minority in Albania. I have signed such an initiative in my time to recognise their status as a national minority, so, me and my colleague, Rančić, it is not respected. So we can put it in your constitution, try to install, bring, etc., but we don't have it. So I say, I wish that, if you were consistent, so I hope that you agree with me that in the domestic affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, many get involved, so I suggested that I could even support it if it were done in such a way that all here... we recognize these, therefore, those countries that do this to us, whether these are PIC members, whether they are, I don't know, the signatories of the Dayton Peace Agreement, or some other state. And of course I might even be able to support it, I'm not against it, but you're only singleing out one country, which, I don't know, is probably because of what you said, puberty love for this country, or this people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16496	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16497	The Honorable Chairman. I must say that I expected today's session to be in the agenda, among other things, an initiative that I had set up in December 2016, and the initiative concerns adopting a strategy to prevent mass war crimes and genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a huge question that it would only be resolved in such a way that, according to my information, it was imagined by Mr. and counterpart Mladen Bosić. This question, i.e. that initiative which has been legally delivered in the procedure does not treat the question of either the past or the present. It is evident from her name that she treats the question of the future. And it's not a partial one, or another or a third nation, or the others, but all of them. And absolutely one such idea is in the background and in the interest of all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know why counterpart Bosić, as former SDS president and now senior SDS official, decided to introduce a new type of blockade and now block the College from sending it to parliamentary procedure. I remind you that this is not a very good practice for the simple reason that after that veto by, first of all, my colleagues, Bosić, I now expect that, let's say, Šefik Džaferović, as the current chairman of the House of Representatives, when in the next period, and if the proposal comes, say SNSD and HDZ, on the abolition of foreign judges in the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I now expect that Džaferović, such a bill will stop already in the College, so he will not even come to parliamentary procedure. And secondly, on the agenda is the fact that, and I was saying that at the end of last year, we have a business obligation to have a joint session of both homes. So far, we have had two sessions in previous mandates, and for the first time, we do not have any sessions in 2016. When I set this up at the end of 2016 was the answer to plan, 32, however, it is clear that March 2017 will pass and that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we do not have such meetings scheduled, and I want to warn you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16498	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, deputy chairman, Mr. Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16499	First of all, I think that in this assembly, or Parliament, we need to talk about all things, but there is some limit that people should have in mind. Words are a difficult thing to repeat over and over again, but not everything can be said regardless of the consequences it produces. So, Mr. Bećirović, I appreciate your involvement as an MP, I think you've opted for provocation as political discipline. Prognosis is a fine thing if it doesn't cross a certain line and it doesn't send messages that mean hate. In your provocations and messages, as was the proposal of this agenda point, I can sometimes recognize the intention, which is not good intentions for the future of human relations here. I will never support such things, I have never supported this initiative of yours on that agenda point on any committee. It's not the first case that happens that way, it happened before, we got information from the Secretariat, you were chairman when the same case was and when you concluded that it was the end of the procedure and informed the promoter that there was no further discussion. So I took advantage of my right, based on my assessment, as a member of the College, that your initiative will not bring any good, on the contrary, there will be a cause for further misunderstanding and for further tightening of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16500	Thank you very much. Mr. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16501	So first, unlike my colleague Bosić, there is no need to use any qualifications that can in any way disqualify fellow Bosić, I have a need to talk only about facts and arguments. So, an initiative has been delivered that is precisely called the Strategy for the Prevention of Mass War Crimes and Genocides, not over one people, but for all peoples and citizens. How did you find that it could be a provocation and for whom it is now a particular question. The other thing, you compare it to some previous mandates, etc., it doesn't matter. This is such a big and important question for Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is impossible to compare it with certain things that were related to certain... technical circumstances. Therefore, my colleague Bosić, I wish you'd used your replica in a way that you have some argument against it, not that you're giving qualifications whether it's a provocation or not. It is no provocation, believe it should be done for the future and for the Serbian, and for the catchers, and for the Bosniak and all the other children in this country. That this state guarantees that they will never, at least in the future, repeat what has happened to them in the past. And it should be fundamental to us, one of the basic tasks of ensuring it, not looking at things in this way and running away from what is essential. And to remind you again, I am not going to give up that idea, because I deeply think it is needed by this country, and I repeat not one nation, but absolutely to all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16502	Thank you very much. Correction of the false allegation, the esteemed representative of Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16503	Thank you. Regarding the initiative of respected counterpart Magazinović and Bećirović, Information on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency Decision concerning the resolution of international members of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments, we will support the request to include this in the agenda. I just want to point out that if there is a debate on this issue, we will ask for another question that is equally important, if not more important, to be considered in this context. At the same session, the BiH Presidency adopted a Decision amending the Commission's decision to preserve the national monuments and in that Amending Decision on the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments, the BiH Presidency made an amendment to the decision to say that decisions are made by consensus of the members of the Commission, and Annex VIII of the Dayton Peace Agreement clearly states - the Commission makes decisions for most of its members. Therefore, in addition to making a decision exempting the international members of this Commission, or disbanding them, the Bureau may have made an even more dangerous decision that, although Aneks vi says that all decisions are taken by the majority, the Presidency of the Commission on the conservation of national monuments says that all decisions are taken by consensus. It is not clear to me, too, that at least one member of the BiH presidency voted in favour of such a thing that may lead to a precedent when it comes to the BiH Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16504	Now we're going right where we're not supposed to, but here I am, I'm gonna hold it off, this one. I give the word to Mr. Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16505	Well, I'm going to join my colleague Lovrinović's initiative here, although I am holding it, it's on behalf of our club, so maybe I shouldn't have, but here I'm going to say I'm going to join that initiative to get off the agenda point 18, just for the reason I've read the proposed Resolution. And that I believe that this document, this resolution, is below the level of this Parliament and that it is rude. I do not want to lower the level of work of this Parliament, and I do not want to be rude in it, and therefore I propose that we take item 18 off the agenda. It is possible that according to Bosnia and Herzegovina, different foreign, different states, different external factors were frequently rude in the past, the bigger the state, the bigger the factor it was more rude towards Bosnia and Herzegovina very often, we witnessed it. Did the Republic of Croatia act that way? I don't suppose so, especially not at resolution level. And that is why I really suggest that precisely because of the level of this Parliament, because of the way it works so far, that point 18 be removed from the agenda. In principle, it is on the trail and so far the work of colleagues from the SDP Club, and so far every initiative from that club has created a conflict in this Parliament, an internal conflict that has been passed on outside. This resolution goes one step further, so this conflict is also being passed on to the abroad, to the outside. Of course, this way very quickly, this country would lose its friends. 34 One more thing I will mention about the 2nd item of the agenda proposed here by my colleague Magazinović, so, even if that is possible, so that it does not go into debate, I will quote the first sentence of Article 9. aneks vi, which says – five years after this Agreement enters into force, the BiH government will take responsibility for the Commission's functioning. I am finally pleased that the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina... have taken responsibility for something written in the annexes of the Deton Agreement. Not only because we need responsibility, but because we are very aware if the European path is often mentioned here that we will finally have to take responsibility for this country in this European way. If this is the first step towards it, I really welcome it. And I suggest that this item of the agenda be not included in today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16506	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16507	Thank you. A kolega, Kožul, says this is below the level, and it is not below its level when representatives of other countries enter this country as in the pub, do whatever they want and say what they want. It's not below his level, and I haven't heard any of his reactions yet. It's not below the level when someone sees Bosnia and Herzegovina as a hobby state, so when there's no topic about their country, they start up our own issue, internally. That's not what he's responding to. But it is below the level when anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina says -- people leave us alone, we have our own problems that we don't know how to solve without you helping us how you help us. After all, this resolution aims to tell everyone to look in the mirror first, to clean below their threshold, at their doorstep and then try to help us, but with respect. You had a report from the State Department a few days ago about us neighbouring country, that's not what Saša said, but I appreciate that you don't even agree with those grades. My colleague Lovrinović is talking about legitimacy. You weren't paying attention again. I invite you to be more focused. counterpart Bećirević explained to you finely that what Parliament adopts becomes Parliament's position, it has nothing to do with Saša or Nikola or anyone else. So, Parliament rejects this, okay, Parliament disagrees. So there's no need for you to ask me anything, but to get involved, so maybe you can make a suggestion. And we're not asking for any constitutionality, you haven't read it again, but we kindly invite people to think eventually about it in order to give a hand of reconciliation in the region, send a positive signal, etc. [[Employee is warned on time]] So there's no need to get nervous, and colleague Arnaut Right, this one, and the explanation is what he was talking about. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16508	Thank you very much. The word has the esteemed representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16509	Something the State Department says to our colleague Magazinović, now I've been following you, and, as my colleague Kožul says, I've been reading what you suggested. And I asked you if you have a mandate to propose in a resolution that will adopt the BiH Parliament for something that needs to be resolved in the Republic of Croatia, do you have a mandate from those majorised groups until it requires that some national 35 minorities become constitutional? I suppose you have a mandate, I suppose you've got it to this Parliament on that determination. And again, I remind you, therefore, that the position of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement, plays a special role, therefore, as a witness to the Peace Agreement, and as a commitment to the citizens of the Croatian people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The position of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not relative to the situation in Croatia. So, you may have, we can agree, but, therefore, I suggested, since everyone is messing with us, you took an example of Croatia not to do it, there is and there is, you could be anyone, you have the right to do it, which is why I suggested that you withdraw, so that you prepare this resolution for all those who are messing with us, so that we send them this powerful message. I'm on that trail, and maybe I'd support you, if you pull it back and do something like that, if you don't, then I suggest you take the point off the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16510	Thank you very much. I call on MPs not to conduct a debate on the essence, this is the mandatory point of the agenda to know, I mean, right now, and not... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I told you that, I'm saying it now and it won't even be voted on. Don't ask us to have a discussion about something that hasn't become a part of the agenda yet. Let's get this over with. The word has a distinguished representative of Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16512	I thank the chairman. Since his colleague Lovrinović said so. Left, I'm going to now, do you, take advantage of his example and say so-called. The party representing the Croatian people, which is the party from which Mr. Lovrinović comes, and so I will continue to use the term. So, we see from the accompanying that it is the representatives, or those who issue themselves as representatives of Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who are mentally defending their country of origin. So their country of origin is not Bosnia and Herzegovina, their country of origin is the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately. But Bosnia and Herzegovina receive all benefits, all benefits, live perfectly, while Hrvat, whom they say represent, live very, very poorly. If our colleagues were to fight so hard for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would all be very well, we would have a much healthier relationship, it would be much nicer in Bosnia and Herzegovina than when we, like, left-handed, were told by Mr. Lovrinović that so-called.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16513	Please, please. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16514	So-called, I apologize to you, Mr. Chairman, 36.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16515	Please, have a discussion, ma'am, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16516	I have my own time that I can use the way I do
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16517	No, no, you can just use time to point, for what's subject to discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16518	I'm sorry, you've never warned anyone but me before.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16519	So behold, I warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16520	And why tell me?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16521	Because I warned you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16522	According to the Rules of Procedure, who have I offended and what have I violated by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16523	Mrs. Gasal, don't have a dialogue with me. Please, go ahead and bring the discussion to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16524	Well, I'll bring the end. And don't interrupt me. So, Mr. Lovrinović suggests that this as a mandatory point, which cannot be removed, should be removed from the agenda and invited by his colleague Magazinović to prepare one all, one comprehensive initiative, and I propose here to Mr. Lovrinović to accept this Resolution, and that he prepare for the next session all those resolutions that should go in the direction of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16525	Thank you very much. Did Lovrinović have, did he have two interventions over the point? Non-compliance with the agenda, please, but that's all. Let's see what it is, non-restraint.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16526	So this, Mr. Chairman, I said yesterday that this is not a mandatory item of the agenda, that according to the members who are listed there is no such position, so neither the bodies have passed, nor, therefore, by emergency procedure, has the status of a binding point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16527	Okay, thank you very much. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16528	No binding point status. And the Republic of Croatia gave me exits to the world, and Bosnia and Herzegovina...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16529	Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16530	It often takes away everything that...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16531	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović, thank you. Your Honors, ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a debate on the agenda. Things about the agenda of today's session and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives stand like this. We had Mr. Magazinović's proposal on the agenda point, the material was delivered here, and we're going to... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16534	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16535	So, I have concluded the debate with Mr. Novaković, you can only make your position known when you vote, no more discussion for anyone. And we won't vote on this, so this is just the way it is. 38 As far as Mr Lovrinović's proposal is concerned, according to the Rules of Procedure, this is a mandatory item of the agenda and we cannot download this item of the agenda but we can declare ourselves when the time comes. As for Mr. Beirović's proposal... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, as far as I'm concerned, please, please, as far as Mr Bećirović and his proposal are concerned, I must say this, therefore, that we had two materials at the session of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16537	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16538	So, but I'm answering you now, Mr. Bećirović, you've come to the debate, so I know that you have no suggestions, but that you know that your proposals were at the College and there was no agreement on any material, and there were two materials to go to the committee in charge. And according to the Rules of Procedure, it's up to Dom to decide. But there was no agreement at the session either, but then we decided to write you what was going on at the College, and you'll get that letter if you haven't already received it. And as for Mr. Kožul, his proposal is the same as Mr. Lovrinović's proposal, we can't take this off the agenda for the reasons I was talking about. And as for removing this point, which you also suggested at the beginning of the agenda, and that is the mandatory point of the agenda, and we can't take it off. And I beg you, so no more, I can't allow the discussion after I've concluded the debate. I invite you now to join the vote on the agenda. Please withdraw these discussions because I cannot allow the discussion after I have concluded and provided an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16539	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16540	Mrs. Krišto is requesting a five-minute break. Five minutes off. Please enter the O.R. and take your seats. I ask MPs to take their seats, approach...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16542	39 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16543	There's no need. So, please nicely, Mrs. Krišto asked for a five-minute break to consult within the College and consult with her club, but after consulting within the College we inform you as a College that we will vote on Mr. Magazinović and Bećirović's proposals, because procedural assumptions have been met, no matter what they think of it, but the procedure is respected. Then we made it clear with Mr. Novaković and Mr. Novaković also accepts our explanation. Mr. Lovrinović and I also, as a College, had a conversation, so this is really a mandatory agenda point and there will be no vote on it. Mr. Bećirović has received an explanation, Mr. Kožul, so we have only to vote on this proposal by Mr. Magazinović and Bećirović. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You'll get that later. Now prepare to vote on this proposal, prepare to vote on Magazinović and Bećirović's proposal to include this point on Annex VIII. 15 for, 9 against, 8 abstentions. There is no general majority entity from Republika Srpska entities. Agreeing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16545	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16546	It's an ex post adjustment. Therefore, I find that the agenda of today's session is as you received in addition to today's session, which is: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-652/17, of 06.03.2017; 4. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-653/17, of 06.03.2017; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1 2610/16, of 10.10.2016 (second reading); 40 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Administration Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017 (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/17, of 26/01/2017 (first reading); 8. Report by the Commission from the House of Representatives' College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure (Law No: 01-02-1-105/17, of 11/01/2017); 9. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-1-126/17, since 12.01.2017; 10. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016, act No: 05/2-50-19-386/17, of 07.02.2017; 11. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2016, Act No: 05/3-50-19-402/17, of 07.02.2017; 12. Reports on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, act No: 05/1-50-19-469/17, of 14/022017 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, act No: 05/1-50-19-467/17, of 14.02.2017; 13. Report on the Commission's work to decide on a conflict of interest for 2016, act No 01,02,03-50-19-331/17, of 31.01.2017; 14. Reports on the work of permanent committees of the House of Representatives: (a) Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, dated 18.01.2017; (b) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Affairs of the Representatives' House for 2016, issue: 01/2-50-3-181/17, of 15.02.2017; (c) Report on the work of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs at the Representative's House for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 07.02.2017; d) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the Representative's House for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 24.01.2017; e) Report on the work of the Commission for Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives for 2016, issue: 01-17.17.17.2017.2017. Reports on the work of the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-14-108-11/17, of 17/01/2017; b) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development for 2016, issue: 03/3-50-14-108/17, from 02.02.2017; d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission on European Integration for 2016, issue: 03/4-14-14-108/17, of 02.02.2017; d) Report on the work of the Joint Commission for European Integration for 2016, issue: 03/4-14-14-108/17, of 03.02.2017; Report on the work of the Joint Commission for Administrative Affairs for the years 2016-02.2017, issue of 01.02.2017. Report on the implementation of the recommendations of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution regarding the Special Report on the Accessibility of Labour Spaces of Legislative Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Persons with Disabilities, applicant: The BiH Ombudsman's Institution for Human Rights, Act No: 03/6,01,02,03-37-226/17, of 23.01.2017; 17. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2546/16. of 03.10.2016; 18. Proposal for a resolution on the desire for progress of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, number: 01-02-2-490/17, since 1602.2017; 19. Information on the Annual Plan for Training and Exercise of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-2884/16, since 10.11.2016; 20. Information from the BiH Ministry of Defence on the Defence Review document (under the conclusion of the BiH Presidency No: 03/1-03-331/16, of 13/12/2016); 21. Consideration of the resignation of Miroslav Škorić as a member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, act No: 01,02,05/134-1199/17, as of 20/012017 and Proposal for a decision on the discharge of an independent board member as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, act No: 01,02-34-1-199/17, since 01.02.2017; 22. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01,02-50-14-376/17, of 06.02.2017; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on the granting of financial assistance "The Water Supply and Waste Water Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II" – the renewal and upgrade of the water supply and waste water system in the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica, material No: 01,02-05-2-157/17, since 16/017; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1 to the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank concluded in Luxembourg on 05.10.2011 and 25. Ten. 2011 in Sarajevo – Hospital project in RS, material number: 01,02-05-2-158/17, since 16/01.2017; 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the field of tourism, material No 01,02-05-2-303/17, of 30.01.2017; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Employment of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia and the Protocol implementing the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Employment of Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Republic of Slovenia, material No 01,02-05-2-391/17, of 07.02.2017; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the maritime transport of cargo to merchant ships, material No 01,02-05-2-491/17, since 1602/2017; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Orio Grant Aid Arrangement for the implementation phase and phase of operation and maintenance of the construction of the 42 network and water processing plant in Bijeljina, ORI11BA08I, material number: 01,02-02-10-524/17, since 20.02.2017; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the First Supplemental Agreement on Financing and the project relating to additional measures after the flood and the reduction of the risk of natural disasters to the Funding Agreement and the project of 31.10.2014 between KfW, Frankfurt na Majna (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina (primary), the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Federation) and the municipalities of Tuzla and Zenica (the project realisation agency) for an additional amount of 2,375.00 euros – The Water and Waste Water Programme in Bosnia and Herzegovina II, material No: 01,02-05-2525/17, dated 20.02.2017; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of New Plant Varieties of 02.12.1961, as amended in Geneva on 10.11.1972, 23.10.1978 and 19.03.1991, material number: 01.02-05-2-563/17, of 22.02.2017; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sports, material No 01,02-05-2-564/17, of 22.02.2017; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the Prevention of Acts of Nuclear Terrorists signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina in 07.12.2005, material number: 01.02-05-2-565/17, dated 22.02.2017; 33. Consideration of material marked 'confidential', act number: P – Pov – 07-03-10-9- 49/16, since 17.11.2016 (Note: material for this item of the agenda is, for confidentiality, available exclusively to the security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cannot be delivered. You can get an insight into the materials in office no. 215 (II floor) every day from 9 to 17 hours. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. First item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the record. I'm opening a debate. Any objections? No objections. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16549	Thank you. So I got an answer to one question, which is from the Ministry of Foreign Trade, or the Council of Ministers, which refers to the Environment and Environment Strategy, and I am 44 with 44 answers, so I am satisfied, but I am not satisfied that it has not been adopted, but so it is. However, I will only take the opportunity to note that two more answers have not been received, it is from federal television never, and it is already over half a year and I have not received from Ms. Minister Borovac on the trail, therefore, protection of the human rights of the Filipović family here in Sarajevo, so resident. She is, though... I said a new year ago that I will no longer be a minister, uh, reminding myself of it until after the new year. Here, it's the third month I think it's time for the Ministry to re-enter the issue, to get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16550	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Monika Tomić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16551	I welcome all present. My question was addressed at the request of several pensioners living in Sarajevo in 1995, the issue was – by odluka piti/MIO Sarajevo to all pensioners who regulated pension until 31.03.'92. The pension has been reduced by 39.2%, which has been determined for the most favourable period of 10 years. The other republics have not reduced the pensions... of the former Yugoslavia. On what basis are those pensions reduced and can those pensions be increased by a reduced amount and paid retroactively for a reduced amount? In response, which I am really not satisfied with, he says that I need to deliver the decision in question, which I am calling for, and the official newspaper in which it was published. My conclusion is that my question is very precise and that the answer is clear that they do not want to answer that question, or they do not have, uh, a reduced frame that can answer that question. Mostly I'll try to ask that question in some other form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16552	Thank you very much. Commentary, distinguished representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16553	I thank the chairman. I would first comment on the response submitted by the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund of Persons with Disabilities, where I asked a question about the competition they published, which is a senior associate in administrative affairs. And according to my knowledge and information, even though people with disabilities have joined the competition, and by Article 15. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities of Persons who meet Generally, and hence special conditions, which are persons with disabilities, have an advantage in employment. The answer was that there were persons who approached, so they confirmed what I had as information, who had joined the competition, but they were not chosen because they were elected as top-ranked candidates. However, when asked whether CVs, i.e. interviews and selection and voting results for persons to be employed and who is the most ranked, are of course considered not to share this information with the public and retain it as their right not legally prescribed. 45 The fact is that the Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities established itself just so that the affirmation and promotion that we need as a society to employ and give priority to persons with disabilities to be employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina and as such institutions do absolutely nothing about it so that they, as an institution, are also the ones who employ persons with disabilities in their institution. When asked how many people in their institution, or in the Fund, who are disabled, I received information that they are three people, but there is no information in which positions and which is then a percentage, because I do not know how many employees are employed in the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. So I will use my business rights and additional questions to refer this Fund to a discriminatory relationship with persons with disabilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and a facility that is formed to promote the employment of persons with disabilities. The second answer I got was from the Federal Ministry of Health So, after all the broken business deadlines of 19.01. I asked questions and finally got an answer, and thank them for that. So, they, the issue, was related to the biomedically assisted fertilisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where I asked if there was a single fund from which attempts to biomedically aid insemination in Bosnia and Herzegovina for couples struggling with sterility could be financed. Of course, they say there is no information, unique information at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, although they are the Federal Ministry of Health co-ordinated with all health ministries at the canton level and it is quite logical that they should have a unique methodology for gathering this information and thus unique information. They are unfortunately unable to coordinate and have this information. Also in the budget of planned funds for the treatment of biomedically assisted fertilisation there is no fund from which, in fact, there is no money that would be reserved for this name and that our citizens and citizens could use, but there is a Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund allows women with disabilities to submit, whether, with a free attempt to biomedically aided fertilisation, the question arises whether discrimination against persons who are not, who have no disability against persons with disabilities. So here... we already have one note of discrimination where the Solidarity Fund sets out funds for people with disabilities, or women who can be subjected to biomedically assisted insemination, and other women don't. Of course, this amount that they set out for human reproduction of disabled persons, so women who could be subjected to the Solidarity Fund for the attempt of biomedically assisted fertilisation in 2016 was 100,000 KM, which is quite insufficient, and given that these are expensive procedures and that from two attempts rarely, there is a positive outcome. So, while in the Federation of BiH, the prime minister buys new vehicles, allocates huge funds for the purchase of new vehicles, we see how determined they are to improve ethnicity in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way. I thank you for your response, although the data that has been delivered to me is very worrying when we talk about people who are struggling with sterility.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16554	Thank you very much. So it is not prescribed but it is common that comment should not be, and logically, it is longer than the time foreseen for the parliamentary question. I didn't mean to interrupt, but I'm asking you to stick to it. There is no chairman who can make order here unless he has co-operation with his colleagues and colleagues. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, to allow this session... Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16555	I thank the chairman. As you pointed out, I've received three answers in the past period. I'm not happy with the foreign ministry's response, because it's essentially the fifth time they say they don't want to answer my question. I'm asking the secretary that, too, the College itself, to intervene on this matter. Indeed, this has gone beyond all measures, above all relations with Parliament, and I can say... behaviour. As regards the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers, I am pleased here with the fact that their answers indicate what the purpose of the parliamentary issues is, and that is, that we as MPs lead to certain changes in society, positive of course. And it's not my first experience, I've had experience with the Ombudsman Institution and access to people with disabilities, including the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I've been asking the Department of Justice here for some time now what about ratification of amendments to an international contract. And for a certain time, the Justice Ministry has been avoiding the ratification, and then acting in Strasbourg has become Bosnia and Herzegovina's international commitment. And then in October I asked what is now with ratification, and three months later I get an answer, they say – now we have started the ratification process. Of course, then I asked the additional question and asked – when, let me see the documents. Turns out, after I told them that a resolution was adopted in Strasbourg that made it an international commitment to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Also at the Council of Ministers, I asked what about the Interresor Working Group for the introduction of modern technologies into the electoral process, for nine months now, the obligation is to form it. A month after my question, that group is formed. So these are some positive examples, unfortunately in both cases this was the result of complementary rather than initial parliamentary issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16556	Thank you Mr. jasmin Emrić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked the public company of the Federation of BiH Railways, and that was said – what activities were the management in 2016, and what was done on the electrification of the Union railway and the training of signal and telecommunications facilities. I got an answer that I'm not satisfied with at all, not in form, not in content, not in the approach they've responded to. They answered with all three sentences for this very important project and those sentences did not answer at all what I asked and what I was interested in. In the first sentence, they match who's in charge of the Unika railway, and I know it very well, and I didn't ask them at all. Next, they say they don't have any information about what they're doing on the track. I think it's disastrous after so many years of neglecting this project that they say they have no information on whether anything was done on the shares of the Union Strip. Whoever passed that end then saw that nothing had been done, even though it had been announced in the past year. That is why I asked the question to see if they had finally woken up and whether they wanted to give this very important international railway corridor its function and thus help develop this region. It really pisses me off that after so many discussions and pointing to the need to invest in 47 electrification of the Union Strip there is no positive response. However, they respond that there will be activities in 2017, and that something will be done on signal-safe facilities, telecommunications contacts and the contact network. But here, it is before us and I hope that what they have stated and will be achieved in 2017. There have been too many promises over the past 10 years, so we can say that in the past 22 years nothing significant has been done on this very important international railway corridor. Of course, as I am not satisfied with the answer, I will ask an additional question in which I will look for a plan to invest in the Unska railway for 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16558	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16559	Thank you. I asked the defence minister, on the basis of information we had the opportunity to hear in the public, about the state of flight capacities, as well as about the Ministry of Defence's intensities to reduce flight allowances for those who fly and intervene in crisis moments which are very high in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the summer season, but also during the rainy season, it is also a latent danger. The answer I got indicates that something had been done. Is that enough here not having that comment, but I expect that giving this answer and comment on my question was quite a serious approach, and that in that sense I believe that what has been done, when the flight capacities are at stake, is correct. We'll see if that's enough in the period, I hope it's still better if they're equipped without intervening. And I am particularly pleased that the comment, which concerns these flight allowances, is that they have no intention of changing this in the BiH Army's Rules of Procedure and personal income. And what else I would now take advantage of again, I said that once again, because the foreign minister is usually present, not present, or if the presence is very short, 16 December I asked one question to the foreign minister, not until today I have not received that answer. And this is indeed an extremely unserious attitude towards MPs in Parliament, and I think that we ourselves have blamed and contributed to all of this, and we should intervene to respect the deadlines on which they are delivered, designed to provide answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16560	Thank you. And finally, distinguished representative Hanka Vajzović, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16561	Thank you, Chairman. I referred the issue to the Ministry of Security on 29 November last year, referring to the cross-border transport of municipal waste from the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of the Neumese hinterland. I specifically asked why illegal cross-border traffic is allowed, why such traffic allows us at the border crossing, at the border crossing, at the border crossing for border traffic and what the minister will do about it. I was sent an answer separately from the Border Police and the Directorate for indirect taxation, but I'd say I got a text that simply leaves a man speechless. Of course, then it's me, but who knows which time I'm not satisfied with that answer. The Border Police have told me that with regular border checks, border police have not registered the transport of municipal waste, although the media has already reported how many times, and everyone knows on the ground that it is so at the crossing... The management, of course, talked about how, uh, it's all legal, that everything goes right, that they perfect their work. The indirect taxation administration says it quotes from the law, and says -- waste imports are banned for disposal in the Federation of BiH and so on. Although I asked very specifically they say that, from the Department of Direct Taxation, it is transported but that it is goods in transit. Still, everyone knows it's not in any transit. And he says that the results of the checks carried out in the official records of the indirect tax administration that they refer to the crossings of Neum I and Neum II. Of course, they're not borderline, but that's not where it goes. That's true, but it's not what it's like in the field. Anyway, if I don't, no one, in response, knows anything, is still uninterrupted for years, they've been working, as we say, all by law. It seems that this fact, however, that something is being done, and none of the authorities know it is being done, reportedly becomes a more serious issue than our rather chronic problem with various unsettled dumps. It's not just the one in Neum, we have a very similar problem here in the capital, except that it's not about imports, it's about cross-border transport, but this is becoming a security issue that, here on a regular basis, even though I've asked similar questions before, I'm left without an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16562	Thank you very much. Moving to the point of the three agenda, that's Ad. 3. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-652/17, of 06.03.2017 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 07.03.2017, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The debate is about an emergency procedure, I note, and I am opening a debate on the procedure. Representative, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16564	The Honorable Chairman. We are in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so we have also proposed this and the following law that treats the same matter to go by emergency procedure, and indeed we believe that such unwarranted privileges introduced by the Dayton political class in the post-Dayton period are absolutely unacceptable in 49 of this Parliament and in this country. All attempts, not only by colleagues Mešić and mine and in previous years, that these things have not been exactly resolved systematically have not been met with the approval of the required majority here in Parliament. So here's the last two years we've had one approach to at least step by step of this thing. A colleague Arnaut also raised an important issue. We thought that it or a few such questions would go much easier, but it also got stuck on such issues. In this case, it is about abolishing the jubilee prize they are entitled to and MPs. We are witnesses that some MPs when they are discredited because of this and in public did not even know that it exists. So we really think that as a proponent that this needs to be done by emergency procedure, of course we don't think that this is the only thing that needs to be lifted, but here, if it's already a step-by-step approach, I think this is also a positive step forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16565	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next representative, on the basis of Article 27 (1) point (f) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in order to ensure that the adopted agenda is considered as a whole, I shall limit discussions on all points of the agenda for up to 5 minutes. The word has a respected representative, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16566	Since it is a procedure that I, frankly, do not see the reasons for the urgency of the procedure, because if we are to have at least one item at a time of change and supplement the Law on Payments and Receipts etc., it seems to me that every session we attend is at least one law or one amendment to the law that treats this area. That's one thing. The second thing, what's within the very essence of this law is actually, it's minor savings because it's only about elected officials, it's a groundless general consideration. I think it is still better that perhaps one, at one of the next sessions, we consider the formation of a commission that will make comprehensive amendments to the law that will abolish the privileges of elected officials, and not, here, every week we consider one amendment to the law. This one's funny now, and here I am rightfully talking about it because I'm one of the ones who didn't even know we had the right to do it and who I gave up. For this reason, I believe that there is no reason for the urgency of this procedure at all, but let us perhaps form a working body that will propose to this House a comprehensive amendment that will end the privileges and here we are as representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16567	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16568	I thank the chairman. Therefore, when it comes to procedures, Article 133(2) of the Rules of Procedure is clear, the position (1) of the Rules of Procedure is clear, the Proposer may request if the law of the high degree of urgency or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected in full to be considered by an urgent procedure. Whether it's a high degree of urgency or there's no need to get into that 50 question at all, it's kind of subjective in any case, not just in this one, but this other one that the bill is so..., i.e. it's conjecture in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely, uh, in one reading, I think absolutely without a dilemma it's fulfilled that business provision. It is therefore a law, i.e. a proposal for a law which fully complies with that business provision. As for the other reasons for urgency, that is, this first part that I said is already subjective, I will enter into it only because of what my esteemed colleague Mehmedović said. I also came across, as a proposer of three different laws concerning savings in the Law on Salary and Compensation, to urge colleagues to form a body, to wait for the Council of Ministers' opinion. It was indeed a barfing struggle to lift white bread, so that they were abolished and limited those fees for working in different commissions, so that I really became, and then when thanks to the MPs from, when the ruling majority was concerned, the Alliance for Change when the Law on the Restriction of Compensation was brought down, I really realized then that maybe the emergency procedure was the only way to do this, because every time we open up a debate about it in the commission phase we have all possible obstructions, so. So I think this bill also meets this first provision to be a high-level emergency law. Because you know what will happen, we have a draft of, which has prepared the Council of Ministers, on amendments, on comprehensive amendments to the Law on Salaries and Refunds, and you know what stands here to exempt the eight institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina from that compensation limit. One of these institutions is the Commission for the Judicial Exam. And we heard from a colleague, Džaferović, that recently this judicial exam committee has changed changes and additions to its membership. So, at the same time, we have this new membership formation, and I think some very important consultations are between a respected colleague and a secretary, so I gave them time to finish it. [[Common discussion]] So, I'm talking about urgency, colleague Novaković, I'm talking about a high-level emergency law because we have a draft in the Council of Ministers that predicts that fees are coming back. So, I think it's about the law, every proposal that comes up, I think it's about a high degree of urgency, because if we don't adopt that kind of thing right now, it's gonna come back to us from the Ministry of Finance where, not only will they not be saving, but those savings that have already been incorporated into the law are going to change. We have tried to return white bread for six months, and now we have an attempt in the Draft of yours to exempt eight institutions from this mechanism of maximum fees for commission work, so I believe that this bill meets both business provisions, so that it is a high-level emergency law and it is also a law that is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted in a single reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16570	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A fellow Arnaut seemed to want to return at a time when he was in opposition, so he suggested white bread to, uh, amend the provisions of the law. So, I fully support what 51 Mr. Mehmedović said, especially colleagues from parties that are parliamentary majority, so we have our people in the Council of Ministers, and even fellow Arnaut has this moment, so to speak, in some ways my people in the Council of Ministers and I would like to really return in this way to resolving the issues, at least we who are in the parliamentary majority. And all these other populist statements here, uh, performing in this House, I don't think we need them, that we don't need them, and we really are, really matured time might even be to pass the Law on salaries and fees of elected officials in particular. So that's one of the possible solutions. But let's let the Council of Ministers do that... at least we who are in the parliamentary majority. Therefore, I support what Mr. Mehmedović said, and I don't think anything here is urgent and that it should be done that way today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16572	Thank you for rectifying the wrong quote, the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16573	Well, I don't think counterpart Mehmedović fully understood all aspects of this proposed law, that is, its true essence. And its essence is not only in the financial aspect, it has its own political and moral dimension. See when we've had a chance in the past weeks or in recent months for some of our colleagues in the media to be accused of receiving a jubilee award, then perception is to see what they're receiving, what is the prize, etc. Now that you have a proposal in Parliament that we completely abolish it, now we are discussing it in a way that is minor. This is definitely another possibility of various abuses with this kind of so-called. Jubilee awards, and that's why we suggested that we put an end to it as an emergency procedure, and I support a colleague of Arnaut that we do not stop at that, but to continue in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16574	Thank you very much. I conclude, the distinguished representative Damir Bećirović, I apologize, the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16575	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Club, I'm asking for a 20-minute break while you agree on manipulation with the voting system, electronically.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16576	And I'm just asking you to explain to me what it is, seriously.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16577	Take a nice electronic and graphic view and this printed part regarding the vote of the SDS MP or the disagreement and then agree the graphic part and bring this printed part together, so tell us whether it is abstention or not, and compare it with the vote of counterpart Ahmetović. And that's why we're looking for a 20-minute break. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16578	I'll give you a break, of course I think I have to do it, 20 minutes, but nothing I can do about it, technique is technique, we know what the condition is. Break 20 minutes. Please continue in, please wait a minute, please, so wait a minute, so since Mrs. Krišto has obligations as a member of the College immediately after we continue this session at 13:20, so respecting Mr. Damir Bećirović's proposal for a break and otherwise the break we have, I am now giving a break until 14:00 to be used for lunch and at 14:00 we continue to work. Please take your seats, continue your work, we have a quorum, we continue our work. There's no Mr. Mehmedović here, the correction of the wrong quote, because he's not here, so I'm here, and no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm in the middle of a deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16580	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16581	Just a little, uh, I'm closing the debate, and of course I'm giving my word, and I apologize to the president of the DF Club, Mr. Damir Bećirović, to explain the request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16582	I remind you of another yen, so if you take Rule 86(5), which says - if the MP does not declare himself against, against or abstention, and he is present in the hall at the time of the vote is considered to be abstention. It was not done here on these printed copies of the vote with the MPs of the Alliance for Change
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16583	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16584	A category that does not exist is introduced and it is a violation of both the Rules of Procedure and the Rules, so. Either you work or participate in Parliament's work or invent new methods of how to get in touch with the SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16585	Thank you very much. So, I am asking the services, please just a little bit, so I am asking Parliament and the Home Secretary to take care of all aspects that are related to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. 53 I hereby conclude the debate and invite you to prepare for the vote. We are now voting on a request for an emergency procedure related to the request of MPs or MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-652/17, from 06.03.2017. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 16, they're against four, they're abstentions seven. An insufficient entity majority of Republika Srpska entities. Mrs. Krišto isn't here, the alignment later. Here, and Mr. Bosić says later. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad. 4. The request of MPs Mirsad Mešić and Denis Bećirović to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01-02-1-653/17, of 06.03.2017 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 07.03.2017, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16587	In one sentence, it is, therefore, the same reasoning as the previous laws, since it regulates the same matter, that I do not repeat the argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16588	Thank you very much. If no one ever answers their word again, I'd be the one to conclude the argument. He asked you to make a statement about the emergency procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] To do it again, yeah. We repeat the vote. Please system, services to prepare the system for re-voting. 54 We're voting again now. So 17 for, 4 against, 7 abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. It's an ex post adjustment. We're going to the five-day stand, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1 2610/16, of 10.10.2016 (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16591	I thank the chairman. I'm at the beginning just to say that the Alliance Club for a Better Future will accept this law, but I didn't get it right, does it mean that I can explain the amendment, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16592	You can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16593	Nothing if, if I can't just challenge this fact for the simple reason that on the Commission I had the right to discuss this amendment and explain it and we voted on it, I don't see why it shouldn't be discussed here right now. But thank you, if I have no right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16594	Thank you. Mr Isakovic, indeed, is a representative, Article 118. The Rules of Procedure are very clear and he's talking about all aspects of what we've been talking about so far. Your amendments don't apply to the subject of the law itself, so they don't apply to the law so it's impossible to enter the procedure, that's the attitude. But here it is, Mr. Damir Arnaut, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16595	Mr. Chairman. So, Article 124. The Rules of Procedure are quite clear, position (2) says – within the same 24 hours, the authorised amendments to Article 118, which you have just quoted, may propose amendments in writing which wish to defend at the House session once they have not been adopted by the Commission. Now you see, if the Commission had adopted what you are talking about, that Mr Isaković could not propose an amendment because it is not about the text of the Law, you would be right, but the Commission took a position, the Commission voted and took a position that Mr Isaković could propose the amendment, and then the Commission declared that the amendment and most of the votes refused the amendment. So, the Commission accepted Mr. Isaković's right to defend the amendment, to propose it, in fact, and then rejected it. So there was a vote on the amendment, not an attempt to propose. So, first it was voted on by the Commission to vote on the amendment as such, whether it could propose it, it was accepted, then the Commission, see the Commission report, voted on it as such, it was rejected, it did not get a majority. Article 124 gives it the right to defend again an amendment which has not been adopted on the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16596	Thank you very much, Mr. Arnaut. I mean, you and I both know what time it is, and I'm asking you to help me with your interventions, not to waste my time and don't go after me to do something that's against the Rules of Procedure if someone else did something that's against the Rules of Procedure. I won't do it, this is Parliament this isn't the Commission and I'm asking you to behave like this. But here you are, looking again for a word, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16597	Mr. Džaferović, so I will always help you if what you're saying is based on something. Also, please accept the fact that I will always first help a colleague from my club and do so right now. Article 124(2) – may propose amendments which he wishes to defend at the House meeting once they have not been adopted by the Commission. This amendment, the fact is, it was not adopted on the Commission, it was voted on, the amendment was voted on, not its right to propose it. So he proposed an amendment, the Commission accepted the right to propose it, the amendment was voted on, see the Report. Even the result of the vote on his amendment was 1 for, 1 against and 2 abstentions. The Commission rejected the amendment. It shall, according to Article 124(2), have the right to defend that amendment. That's, that's a business fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16598	Thank you very much. Discussion, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16599	I thank the chairman. 56 Very briefly, we at the SDP Club are kindly looking at correcting injustice against a large number of police officers who can be corrected, among other things, through this Law, and in this sense we intend to support this legal solution. However, through this debate at least we want to highlight a few of the things that we have learned about through communication that people in other clubs probably also have with the people to whom this Law applies, so where there is an assessment of even that correcting the injustice in this case is even greater. A collection of what? Because the salary increase does not apply only to those with the lowest rank and those with only medium professional preparation, and even to some of the parallel tables, which the people concerned have made, say that by one of the calculations an ordinary policeman would have an increase of cca 70 marks, while, for example, some of the higher acts would have 200 and more. So, right away, even if the question is whether there's money in the budget it's not about us from the opposition but about those who are the government and from that club is the man who proposes the law and I suppose he knows where the funds are going to be provided, but I am obliged to make visual communications with the people that this law refers to and I hope this thing is also accounted for. On the other hand, the interest we show for the state-level police, I would like from the people who are dealing with this topic, and here colleague Mehmedović is certainly one of these, resulting in the initiative to expand our knowledge of how the procedure is going, as well as what expertise leads to the most complex investigations, so that perhaps even in that sense, the criteria are tightened so that the police structure at the state level is truly representative. Once again with all this inadequacy and with the need to say what we've been told, we intend to give our support to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16600	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirsad Đonlagić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16601	Mr. Chairman of the SBB Club is requesting a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16602	At the request of the SBB Club, a 30-minute break. I ask the MPs to take their seats, we proceed with the work. The president of the SBB Club asked for a break, please the president of the club to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16604	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SBB Club, given the overall agenda situation, had to carry out consultations at the Club regarding our further activities during this session and we continue to work. Thank you for understanding. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16605	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. According to what I see here, there are no further hearings on this agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Administration Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017 (first reading) At last session of the House, we did not accept the Constitutional Commission's negative opinion on the bill's proposal. The Constitutional Commission is 15.02.17. For years, she delivered a Opinion on the Bill's Proposal. The Commission found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system and adopted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16607	I thank the chairman. In view of the fact that in the last House session, which was discussed at that time by the negative Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, I have quite detailedly explained this proposal of the law, I will now only remind the distinguished colleagues that it is only one provision, in such a way that in Article 104 which already provides for criminal penalties of 150 to 500 KM is added to the same amount for non-compliance by, among other things, the conclusions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, its homes, its committees, MPs and delegates in the same, etc., etc. Therefore, Article 27 which speaks of the obligations of the Authority shall be added to the members for which the existing law has already prescribed a criminal penalty for non-compliance by the Authority of the Administration. Meanwhile, after that House session where I had already explained this draft law, the Constitutional Commission changed its position, at the last session, the Constitutional Legal Commission gave a positive opinion on this bill. And I would also like to underline that the Ministry of Justice has also given a positive opinion on this proposal for a law adopted by the Council of Ministers in the meantime. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, I will not read the whole of the Opinion, with the view that in most of the opinions they are calling for provisions, etc., etc., etc., but when it comes to this essential part of the Opinion, it says – cijeniti the reasons for the adoption that have been given in the light of the bill of opinion we have the same justification. So, I think they're being created, and I think there's every basis for the adoption of this law. I also believe that any debate between colleagues, i.e. by colleagues on non-response by the Council of Ministers, on the non-execution of the Council of Parliamentary Assembly's conclusions by the Council of Ministers, i.e. concrete ministries and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration, are indeed not justified if they are not willing to support the introduction, i.e., to be very direct and concrete, the extension of sanctions, because the existing law already provides sanctions for non-compliance by the Authority of the Administration, and this is the only sanctions that we extend to the non-compliance with the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and its homes, commissions, etc., which is, above all, justified. And I think it was simply a failure or oversight in the initial, only when 58 were first done by this Law on Administration, which was not inserted, given that the Parliamentary Assembly was either directly superior to all the authorities of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina by nominateing their managers or indirectly appointed by the Council of Ministers, who then appointed the heads of the other authorities of the administration. It is therefore quite illogical that criminal sanctions are prescribed for non-compliance with the requirements of the Ombudsman by the administration authority, without being prescribed for the failure of the authority of the administration to comply with the demands of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Namely, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH also appoints the executives of the administration and the Ombudsman, and when the authority of the administration does not comply with our request, the entire House, the entire Assembly, there are no criminal sanctions, and when it does not act on the request of the Ombudsman institution, there are criminal sanctions. So one really illogicality that has no place in this law. And for that, among other things, I think that there is a need to correct this illogicality. I hope that the distinguished colleagues of the Alliance for Change, whose votes are of course necessary for the adoption of this Law, will also support, otherwise I cannot truly understand the constant steps of their individual staff in the past few weeks that ambassadors do not act on their orders, etc., because if they are not willing to impose sanctions then there is really no room for these remarks. As I said at the last session of the House, I explained this Law in detail, so I think this is quite enough now, and I remain, of course, if I have to maintain my right because I have now spoken to myself as a proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16608	Thank you very much. Since there's no more... Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16609	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16610	Yeah, sure, just say the word. Representative Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16611	Very briefly, excuse the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16612	No problem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16613	This law has two members. If we ignore the one who says when it will be published in the Official Journal, then this is a law with less than 20 words, including allies, but I find it extremely useful because it restores the dignity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I also believe that it corrects a mistake that was eventually made in the formulation of this Law, because it was quite logical for this thing to be part of the Law and there is the Proposer, Mr. Arnaut, to be absolutely right. I don't understand why it may not be proposed in an emergency procedure because of its simplicity, but it's the right, of course, to propose a decision on the procedure, but in any case this is something that needs to be supported. And in this way, at least we who have talked about this in different ways in Parliament's 59th Assembly were dissatisfied with the lack of response, the treatment of Parliament, and here are some examples that Arnaut has made, if we support this will surely pass, and I believe that everyone cares that this institution, which we are currently representing and in which we are sitting, is being treated in a responding manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16614	Thank you. I don't see anyone applying anymore, unless someone's trying, and the technique hasn't worked, I mean, if there are any. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Value Added Tax Act – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/17, of 26/01/2017 (first reading) The bill was submitted in procedure 26.01.17. A year. The legislative and legal sector is 01.02.'17. delivered Opinion on the determination of the proposal for a law with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which found that it did not fully comply with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. For this reason, the College of the House decided to ask the promoter to correct the observed shortcomings in the Bill Proposal, and the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal is on 03.03.17. submitted the required corrections to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the harmonisation of the draft law with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional and Legal System 06/03/2017. On 6 March 2017, the Commission for Finance and Budgets submitted its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16616	I thank the chairman. Well, this law is one of the laws that fits and I think it's the good part of this law. However, in the Law proposal itself on the Commission, I explained this and on the Commission, there were many of these parameters in which we would see the next thing, and I think it is very important at this point if we know that revenue in the budget is between 80% and 90% of indirect and direct taxes, in this case we do not have how much of the proposings, this budget will be missing, so how much the budget will be reduced in this year for these funds for why taxes and VAT are being released. So that's one, one bad side of this part. And secondly, they did for 2015 and part of 2016, but statisticalally processed data for the last year in which we had a number of other extraordinary imports, exports, etc., I do not think it is relevant. The value added tax, therefore, started in 2006, i.e. with the final account in 2007 and during that period we had a real condition. So what I'm missing here is the following -- let's see how much in the 2017 budget we're going to have less income on this basis and how much revenue you're making. If we have less income, we'll have less, less funds in the spending 60 pages. What are we going to deny? So for me, it took a much better, better explanation and a lot, a lot of statistics to see what it was and what it was. Therefore, but in essence the SBB supports this part and it is nothing controversial when it comes to the fact that it is also dealing with the harmonisation of customs policy, i.e. European legislatives in the sense of whether the tax on additional value and the release of customs duties of certain, certain goods. One grudge that should be, uh, and for the future when it comes to these, these and these laws, these kind of species, so that they know what's ahead of us and how much less money it is. Of course, the opinion of the Finance Commission, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, should also be taken into account in the light of whether these funds, the reduction of these funds, are foreseen in the 2017 budget. We don't have it all together here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16617	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16618	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, one small remark, I don't see a proposing anywhere. I don't see a proposing anywhere. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then you should, then they, of course, will be able to give a relevant explanation. So, after yesterday's session of the Commission, I am deeply convinced that more changes should be made, and not like this, of course, I am talking to you, sir, to my predecessor, I agree, these are cosmetics. Only on one example was it made to strengthen my conviction and that if it did not, according to what I had already said at the previous sessions, it was approached to make more thorough amendments to this Law to do so as an MP, representative, representative, alone. Temporary imports of customs-free goods, without any guarantee that the goods will come out of this country, because it is a temporary import. The goods will be distributed to Bosnia and Herzegovina in some magical ways. The VAT disappears, millions disappear, no taxes, and then no one knows how to resolve it. Niko. But one agency disappears, which is vital to those who do business and who want to do and give what Bosnia and Herzegovina has beyond the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no one to give you guarantees, because that money was actually spent on whoever was supposed to give guarantees. And 80 million vapors. You don't know, you say you went into internal traffic and it should be taxed now, the tax says this, and then we're spinning around in circles, and the wire factory has imported so many thousands of tons of iron that no longer exists. And the management cannot explain how it is possible that there is no roll over the temporary imports released from VAT due to potential exports. You don't even know if it's or where it's gone. You're saying that went to Zeljezar Zenica, did you have any guarantees that it would be, that VAT would be paid? Have you ever thought to say – you are freed, you are subject to bank guarantees, you will be returned at the moment you leave this country, the product? That doesn't make any sense to you. But this is one example, and I'm deeply convinced, and I'm not talking here about accessing the fundamental dimension of the law. Yesterday, I named your representatives an example of only two cities asking to see if they had any data. Banja Luka and Sarajevo together have registered 61,250,000 private-owned motor vehicles. If they spend two months just one tank of fuel, show me how many oil and oil derivatives, and then show me how many oil and oil derivatives are charged with excise duties, customs duties, VATs. Somewhere people are magically losing it. No, where, so I listed the exact data, 164,000 Sarajevo, 90,000 Banja Luka, 200, nearly 250,000 vehicles, where these funds are. The law obviously has a lot, a lot of hollows. Of course, I do, but this is still just one little cosmetic change and I accept that you have warned me, I conclude, that the Council of Ministers must take a serious approach to the analysis of the law and to the full amendment of this Act. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16620	Thank you. The esteemed, respected representative Mensura Beganović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16621	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. Mr. Backović would only, uh, correct an allegation relating to non-request of bank guarantees. The subject you're talking about is really looking for bank guarantees, and from the banks that went bankrupt in Republika Srpska, which is one problem, and the other is a problem that is not guarantees... timely. It's the Unis Dervent tube factory, so there wouldn't be one of the information you gave if it wasn't for a guarantee. The guarantee is requested, but unfortunately it hasn't been followed properly and they've allowed these guarantees to not be activated, which is much more devastating to me than not asking for guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16622	Thank you. And now Mr. Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16623	Respectfully, I can say, fellow MPs, are required guarantees, but I'm not talking about guarantees that were given to whoever financed the job. I'm talking about guarantees that the Directorate for indirect taxation, for indirect taxes, should have with him because the product did not come out of Bosnia and Herzegovina and was not charged with VAT. So I, I was talking about something else, not about these guarantees, I know that the guarantees were taken invalid, unquality, etc., I know that, but the administration didn't take guarantees for the goods that came in, on that difference, those millions of VATs she didn't take, and the goods went out, because he didn't have any obligation, he had the goods prodo, the money transferred to Bog knows where, and no one in this country has a word to tell us what happened, with that kind of money. That's what I was talking about, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16624	Thank you. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16625	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that these amendments represent a very positive example in indirect tax policies. The freeing area, the principles that apply actually introduce a new quality. We have so far had that philanthropy punished by a tax on extra value, today what is investment in health care, which is in scientific research in the field of health, is simply getting one new support. We must have a positive approach to those who want to donate, especially in areas that are socially useful and generally needed. This is one example, I support and encourage the Council of Ministers to move more and more in this direction, to mobilise people, to contribute to the development of those needs of society that are common. In this way one broader segment of social opportunities is stimulated to contribute to the creation of new material values in the field of health, especially when it comes to equipment. And that's a good thing, I support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16626	Thank you very much. If no one answers the word, I'll close the debate. We're going to the eight-day line, that's Ad. 8. Report by the Commission from the House of Representatives' College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MP Mirsad Mešić to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure (Law No: 01-02-1-105/17, of 11/01/2017) The House College, acting as the Commission, failed to reach agreement on the request. You've received a match report. There is no debate on this item of the agenda, given that this is an emergency request we will immediately vote on the request in the second round of voting. We vote, therefore, on the urgency of the procedure in the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 21 for, 4 against, 5 abstentions. There is a general majority, from Republika Srpska is one, there is no, no, there is no, so there is no 2/3 against it. I realize we've adopted an emergency procedure for this bill. Now I'm opening a debate on the very essence of the law. If you, distinguished representative Nikola Lovrinović, discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16628	I thank the chairman. So, I don't even know which time to fix article 42, the transitional and final provisions of the year 2005, and we think that's the solution, and it's always our solution, and here's how I've been in office for two years and more. Of course, this is not the solution right now, of course this is the opposite of the Consumer Protection Act, of course I don't know if it meets the, uh, 63 standards by which we're working to change the article from the transitional and final provisions, of course it's in force Article 18, and I've been repeating it for the tenth or the hundredth time. But, uh, I don't know how this bill of legislation, colleagues who do it all the time here, and try to introduce themselves to the public as rescuers of the system, never try to offer any whole solution or say that we will get out of this overall situation, but just let us bridge for a few months, and we'll see what we'll do again. I would also remind you this time that we still don't have the audit results, and we've come to the conclusion here that the review provides us with what is the situation in these houses, or in the system, when it comes to picking up and operating at all RTV fees. On the other hand, we don't know who's doing it right now and whether anyone's doing it, and where, and if he's doing where that money is lying down, and who's making that money, who's having that money, how it's being distributed, how it's being distributed, has the law there as it's being said, but since it doesn't work, we all know each other well. So, a lot of questions we don't have on this, to answer these questions, and here they sort of work, although they say, and unfortunately that's how it works, they say they work despite the fact that there's no permanent settlement of the question of the billing of tv fees. It's not permanent again, it's just like this again, and I don't know if it's appropriate for this Parliament, but I have to say, public bluffing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16629	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16630	Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean to say anything about this Law, given that this is a problem that you all know, but I was provoked by my colleague Nikola Lovrinović for the reason that very often all the efforts, the well-intentioned, well-intentioned efforts of the opposition are qualified by some inappropriate remarks. We're actually trying to correct what you're wrong, we're trying to correct what you're trying to bring down, and this is one attempt, a call and a request to all of you, to provide people with, and we're trying to bring in the legal solutions that are necessary. And you in HDZ for the first time, here, you did make some kind of step, so you made some kind of a solution, but now let's make it to the final solution that the BHRT system works. Otherwise I will personally consider you responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16631	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16632	Thank you very much. My colleague Mešiću, and I will consider you responsible because you were also the government when the agony of this system started, you had your minister, you brought him, you brought this system to what you led to, and now, here, by bluffing you're trying to say it's not like that, so. Well, stop bluffing, offer the law whatever you want. So, you know very well that the law doesn't respect itself in its largest part, you don't only respect it, you know that there's no corporation either, you know that, that the money you collect doesn't even know where they're lying, you know that in the last 5, 8 years you don't even know how long it's been, how much, how much, how much money they share, who picks it up, you don't know anything, 64 just give those 7.5 marks that they get and be calm Bosnia. So, let's stop bluffing, give it a once-in-a-lifetime solution for you. So we've offered it and we'll offer it over the course of this year until we find a solution, but one whole solution by which the system can function, not like this. So, consider me responsible only I've been here for two years, and you've been a little longer, and you've been in power, so I find you responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16633	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16634	Mr. Chairman, I suggest that you maintain the dignity of these MPs by holding a session. I don't bluff anyone, my political option doesn't bluff anyone. We were unfortunately in power with HDZ in the period when we could decide and solve this problem with the Radio TV system, but unfortunately we had HDZ with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16635	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16636	Not wanting to open up the controversy with each other, but I think it would be fair, correct, if anything that at least human to what works at this moment how it works, go... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16639	If you want to talk to each other, tell them I'm out of here. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16640	We can't, so you warn him instead of warning me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16641	Well, you're talking here, so I'm warning you both to come over here. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16642	He's talking to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16643	Go ahead, discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16644	We have no right to kill what works. We have the right to a legal solution to look for other forms, modality, and I don't know what anymore, but until we do, we can't kill. We kill a system that is defined by all the laws that exist now. And if they exist like that, we have sworn to the Constitution that we will respect the legality of this country, if that's the case, then we cannot disobey the laws. And we're doing everything we can to make the children that were created end up drowned. One of those children is, however it may be, a monster, a TV system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Give the bill of amendments to the common law, find the modality you want, but don't hold the handbook to kill anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16645	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16646	Mr. Backović, therefore nothing, but absolutely no connection of HDZ, neither Croatian representatives have with this system, no single hand of any Hrvat, at any level, has been raised for such a system. This is imposed on us, but we seem to have... But if that is the case, then, I invite all those to whom this system suits and this mode of work – so give your brothers a payment, which you do not pay that subscription, what you want only to transfer to the Hrvat. That's one thing. The other thing, I'm really sorry we were together back then, I hope we never will again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16647	Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Excuse me, I have a right...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16648	Of course this works the way it does, I'm sorry, obviously, Nikola either doesn't have the exact information or she has amnesia when it comes to law-making, obviously. Well, from that, to start from the lower level, the federal where we voted for him, me and Mrs. Borjana Krišto, voted, voted, I'll give you the stenograms of that, I'm a papyroman, so I've got it all. So, we voted for, well, to the fact that in all bodies the HDZ just gave people to the Supervisory Board, name and last name, who is, how..., and don't in that way, it's not fair, because this is what they look at and this stays and when people go through it they say – so this man obviously didn't either save him or give him the wrong information on purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16649	I'm standing behind... 66
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16650	I'm telling you now don't stand...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16651	I'm standing... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16652	Because the sequence...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16653	Please, no, no, Mr. Lovrinović, please don't let me warn you, please. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16654	I attended meetings when the HDZ gentlemen sought what kind of supervisory structure I was sitting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16655	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, the esteemed representative of the Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16656	I thank the chairman. I would like to correct Mr Lovrinović who says – no Hrvat has ever voted in favour of such a system, or system. And so the correction applies that it is not, so it wants to say that no Hrvat exists in any other party, so you should never say any representative or representative of the HDZ BiH has voted for such a system. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, all the Hrvat said, so don't generalize.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16658	Thank you very much. Please continue to work nicely, honor the colleagues who have applied. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16659	For a long time now, interest has been expressed and the need for a full solution is imposed, and that is evident. We are the founder of the Public Service and we have put him in a position that between 67 of something called an optimal solution and no solution that we now need to find a meeting answer and it is necessary and responsible to find a transitional solution. Today on the table we have one of the proposals that is in the procedure that allows us to have... a solution to the final. It's up to us when they'll finally be on the table and finally be adopted. Until then, let's take responsibility and vote for a transitional solution, that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16660	I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the point of the nine agenda, that's it, Ad. Nine. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-1-126/17, since 12.01.2017 The report was submitted in procedure 12.01.2017. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Report 15.02.2017. The Commission accepted the Report and commissioned the Legislative Sector to provide information on the Report. The legislative and legal sector provided information on 15.02.2017 – A review of the BiH Ministry of Justice's report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the construction of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The report in question, under point 4.2, lists the number of total rules drawn up for three years from 2013 to 2015, which is 101 laws and 304 sublaws. Now, if we're dealing with the average, then we're going to get the following indicators, so in 3 years, the ministry has made 11.2 laws, and 33.7 sublegal acts, or if we look at it for each year individually, then the ministry makes 3.7 laws, of course, including amendments and additions to existing laws and 11.2 sublegal acts. And now we are asking whether this is a legislative activity that is satisfactory for Bosnia and Herzegovina during this period when a large number of laws and regulations are necessary to comply with the EU acquis. I think this is very serious data and we have to worry about why the executive authority, but also the legislative one, does not accept these facts and is more actively not going to solve a large number of issues for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are regulated by regulations and laws. It also shows that there is no active role of the Council of Ministers, but not only the Council of Ministers, but also all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I think that this report can also be seen through the prism of the lack of political will, as it is pointed out, but there is no political will, which is the number of laws that have not passed through the Council of Ministers and have no political will, so that they are some indication of the lack of that political will and where there is no political will. But if we take the data from table one, that's the number of laws and data on page nine, then we see that somewhere there's a difference of 21 laws for which there was no political will. Although it states here that the ministries do not keep records of normative activities at all, 68 is surprising to me. Three laws a year and I can't keep records or 11 sublegal acts. I think it's funny to even mention it and it's weird that there are differences in the record of these legislative activities. Here, for example. On page 9, it was stated that in 2013 the Council of Ministers established 30 draft laws, in 2014. – 20 draft laws, 2015 - 30 draft laws. And then further when the table shows the relationship between the total number of new ones and the addition of existing regulations there are differences. When we add that up for 2013 there are 33 laws which differ from these 30 laws, for 2014 there are 23 laws, and on page 9 there are 20 and 38 laws in 2015, and page 9 says that the Council of Ministers has established 30 drafts of the law. Well, it seems to me that even the Justice Department didn't add this up, so it didn't see that you were actually writing uncoordinated things. I don't know, if there's a pronoun in there, I'd pray that if he made a statement about it, or if I didn't get it right. Further in the conclusions adopted by the Council of Ministers, the ministry and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are tasked with joining the establishment of specialised units for normative and legal affairs in the ministries with a greater volume of these jobs, while other ministries and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have specialised staff who would undergo the necessary training. I really don't understand this, now form some special law-making units, so I think it's funny. Do we not have in the ministries people who know how to make regulations and laws? It's a completely unacceptable conclusion to me. And if this is adopted by the Council of Ministers, I'm surprised, here in essence, and it doesn't say whether it's adopted by the Council of Ministers, because we have But these conclusions are listed here. [[Employee is warned on time]] Also, I suggest, here's the conclusion number 4, it's a short time for the chairman to take this matter seriously, he says -- the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are tasked with developing software to make regulations. Law-making software, that's what the departments do. You say in conclusion number 3 -- they can't make regulations, so how they'll make software. Well, the departments don't do software. I think it is a matter that is completely illogical and I suggest that this conclusion number 3 and the conclusion of number 4 be thrown out of these conclusions and that the Parliamentary Assembly, or we as a House of Representatives, do not adopt it. [[Employee is warned on time]] It also has information Thank you. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16663	Thank you. That's enough, over the minute, we can't tolerate any further. Dear Representative Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16664	I thank the chairman. If the disastrous result of the work was watching the number of laws we passed, whether the changes or the laws that are just being adopted, I would not really comment on it, my colleague Emrić has really defined it very closely. I would maintain on the Report, i.e. information from the Legislative Sector, which says that all these laws, that 50% of these laws are incompatible with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples and with the Unique Rules for the Making of Acts. It's something I can't figure out. If we already have rules that need to be followed and the Unique Rules, then it's not clear to me that there are so many laws that have come for adoption or that they have to go through all that previous control so much, that it's so out of line. 69 In this regard, we propose some five conclusions which, among other things, would solve the issue of this proposal, namely a proposal or a conclusion by the Ministry of Justice on the formation of specialised departments at the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice, which I will, of course, give you later in writing, that I do not elaborate them, because it is a short period of time, so I will just read them. The first conclusion would be: The legislative and legal sector and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, therefore both at home, are in charge of preparing amendments and supplementing the Single Rules for making legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because these are the Unique Rules that we already have but only need to be completed so that there are not so many dilemmas and so many non-compliant laws. In the Single Rules, the provisions of both Rules of Procedures of the Parliamentary Assembly should be incorporated, and in particular what the draft law should contain. We have witnessed that we have the law, here we have now, today we have the Law on Refunds and Salaries in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina where three, four proposals come in parallel, or the Election Law where we have had the opportunity to take a few proposals at the same session. The unique rules are that the Single Rules are complemented by provisions which are regulated by the establishment of an official and unofficial version of the consolidated text of the law, i.e. regulations, to prescribe mandatory novelty, the codification of the text of the law which has undergone a greater number of amendments and additions to facilitate its application in a consolidated course of law, which the Parliamentary Assembly would adopt by emergency procedure. Conclusion number two. It is up to the BiH Ministry of Justice to prepare a separate act on procedures and methods for assessing the impact of regulations that improve the quality of the content of the rules and as such is independent of the unique rules governing nomotechnical rules. Under 3. It is up to the legislative and legal sector to conduct once a year training for civil servants performing normative legal tasks in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat on the subject of the Single Rules. Conclusion number four. The College of the Secretariat shall be responsible for ensuring the necessary capacity to develop the rules in such a way as to ensure that training is provided to civil servants working on normative jobs in order to further improve and improve knowledge from their jurisdiction. And under 5. The BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with ensuring, or intensifying, co-operation between legal and language experts in order to strengthen the legal-linguistic verification system in the process of drafting legal rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, these five minutes that you've left us for discussion would be too small for me to have each of these conclusions specifically elaborated, but I hope you'll recognize that these are actually conclusions that should be fixed, repaired, or advanced or explained what it has given in its Justice Ministry report through those three, four conclusions, five, which they have given in their, at the end of their text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16665	Thank you. The word has the chairman, Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16666	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I went out for this pay phone just to say that this is an extremely important issue that we have serious problems with the functioning of both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are serious people here from the Council of Ministers, so the man who follows this area I hold that he is a serious lawyer, and I know that he is a serious lawyer, and they are serious people who work in the legislative sector, and I came out to say that these two groups, therefore the group from the Council of Ministers, from the Ministry of Justice, the assistant minister and our legislative sector, must urgently find a way to communicate, because almost every other regulation, which is also shown by statistics, which comes into Parliament having a problem with compliance either with the Rules of Procedure or with the Single Rules. This simply has to be done, so you have to find ways to make laws that practically come from one house, this is one house, so from the one who is authorized by the Constitution to propose regulations and the one who makes regulations and adopts them, so that there are no such problems. This just has to be done. So, the legislative and legal sector and the Council of Ministers sector that is following this area urgently sits down before any regulation should be consulted by the legislative and legal sector to be reviewed in advance so that the regulation is addressed to the procedure, rather than we stop it at the College, on the Constitutional Commission, and I don't know where either. So it's a serious thing, because over 50% of the rules are burdened by this kind of problem. And these conclusions are fine, I think it's okay to support those conclusions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16667	Thank you, Chairman. The word has Hazim Rančić. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16668	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I thought I'd also talk more about a document that the legislative sector referred to on this agenda point, but respected colleague Mensura Beganović came forward before and the grotesque of these things said. I would suggest two conclusions if my colleague would allow me. The first may have been modified if I heard and followed my colleague, Beganović, who suggested that education be provided to people from the legislative sector, with the obligation to educate all officials in accordance with the laws applicable to them. I think it is necessary, at least once a year, to educate people from ministries and other institutions who work to draft laws and sublegal acts. Therefore, the persons who prepare the laws and other acts first need to educate them to do so without error or with as little error as possible, and only in the second step when that material comes into the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly will it be easier for our legislative sector, i.e. there will be fewer objections. So I would insist on the education of each other, otherwise they complain, you saw in this document to prevent education of both people and people in our legislative sector. It is an obligation for all officials and I ask these executives to allow them, with a note and conversations with the persons of that legislative sector, that, if it is true that this sector is incomplete, to fill it with the corresponding number of people as provided by the Regulation. Thank you very much. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16669	Thank you. Since there are no more reported, excellently, Mr Grubešić, Assistant Minister in charge of this area. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16670	Thank you to the president and co-chair. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to refer to a few of these discussions that were carried out, which were in this report. When it comes to this formulation of a specialised unit, specialized staff, it is a formula from the Single Rules adopted in 2005 and this, this House and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted those rules that year and ordered the ministries and other institutions to form specialised units, this, for the making of legal regulations, and less institutions where they have less work, to staff. Uh, it wasn't done in most of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ministries, and that's why this conclusion, uh, so there wouldn't be a dilemma about that conclusion. And secondly, about software to make regulations. It is, therefore, a well-known thing and it is from public administration reform. The Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office and the Revised Action Plan foresees this activity. We believe that this activity would significantly facilitate the making of regulations because it would point to some nomotechnical errors made by those who make the regulation. It's nothing new, so it's one software that gets into existing computers and that's for those who do. And the third thing, study-analytical, normative-legal affairs are the most complex jobs in the administration and it can't be done by any civil servant. Therefore, there must be staff and staff who has both an affinity towards analysis and normative-legal activities, but also staff who has a certain experience and rank in the state service, this one, so it is on ministers to assess which persons they are, that they can do these jobs. When it comes to proposals for conclusions, the esteemed representative Beganović, I think I wrote down the name well, uh, I can generally agree with them. So the thing is, who formulates, is essentially what we want from the Justice Department. The only thing I have is one prejudge, a predication to special regulation to regulate the impact assessment of regulations. It's a little prejudge, because you know why, we've been working for two years and we've analyzed that question and we've come to the conclusion that it should be like through the Single Rules, because the unique rules in part four, chapter two, are talking about assessing the impact of the regulations. How we're going to pass another regulation that's going to be contrary to the Unique Rules, let's solve matter where it belongs. So it's about that. Therefore, and thirdly, the chairman, the esteemed president, Džaferović, suggested that co-operation be achieved between the BiH Ministry of Justice and the legislative sector of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I must say that we have already made those contacts, and we are already negotiating these issues that are in the conclusion of Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure Beganović, the Rules of Procedure of Homes, because we also want the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers to do so. That's what you get into, that's where you have to build on all the elements. We can have great home rules if it is not previously done that it has and in the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure we will have again from the legislative sector, this, the remarks – you did not deliver this, you did not, you understand. So, so, and this, and this service is... we're already repeating it, I think, for the fifth time in these reports that you're doing unofficially purified versions of texts, that you can use it easier. And the issue of official 72 consolidated texts has also been discussed in this House and the Single Rules have been amended and it has been said that this consolidated text is passing, uh, the law. Training, of course. And around the tongue, it doesn't concern this House as much as the House of Peoples. The Unique Rules state that the House of Nations will form a commission or a committee for language standardisation, so on the other hand. So we can't really, uh, do that since 2005, so 12 years isn't a commission formed that would work, professionally prepare that we have, uh, some use, proper use actually and standardised use, especially legal terms, you understand. So, that in the House of Peoples when I am going to mention this certainly question of a commission that hasn't been established for 12 years. I'd like to thank everyone. Here I propose, of course, nothing is perfect, this, or this report, what is the essence of this report is that we wanted to do one other thing, to bring our entire regulation into line with EU standards, and EU standards are contained in the principles of SIGMA, and there are twelve of them. So we went and said, let's see how we plan normative-legal activities, that is, how we create a political agenda, what will be done that year in that area, until the law is passed and reported on its implementation. So, all those stages we worked here. I'm not saying that the conclusions may be the happiest, maybe this clarification of mine can provide answers to some questions, this one. And here, I suggest that the House adopt this report essentially, and with the conclusions, here's how, uh, about Dom thinks it should, I think it has a very good idea for conclusions, uh, to adopt those as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16671	Thank you very much. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16672	I thank the chairman. When I discussed these conclusions, I highlighted specialized units, which means departments for normative-legal affairs within the current framework of the ministries. If you meant it with an existing number of employees, if you're going to introduce new special units, then I think it's really complete, it's the wrong formulation of this conclusion. It was supposed to be done in a different way, so we're not going back to it now. And this, when it is said, is tasked by the competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to produce software, not to purchase software, but to make software. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it's not a good formulation, but this is past the Council of Ministers, as I understand it. Well, we can't do that. Thank you. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16674	Okay, thank you very much. No more reports. Let's discuss these things a little bit, this is an important thing. Point 10 is, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016, act No: 05/2-50-19-386/17, of 07.02.2017 You got the report. The House College has designated the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of B iH as responsible for considering the Report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 06.03 this year. The Commission did not accept the report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the hearing because there are no reports. We're going to the 11th agenda, we're going to...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16676	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16677	So we have a colleague who wants to apply for the previous point, we have concluded, but here, so we have not yet moved to the 11th agenda point, we are still at the 10th agenda, there is no debate closed and we have an application colleague, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16678	Thank you, Chairman. It happened like this because... that the honourable representative... Bojić, because he was set on behalf of the Commission, so I thought something would happen, then I waited for it to happen. Here, thank you very much. I just wanted to say about this one interesting report that didn't go through on the Commission and one brief analysis. Since I have proposed the adoption of the law to an initiative, the Law on Putting Off the Power of the Law on the Establishment of Our Two Parliamentarys, this so-called independent bodies. One analysis of the short, 64 complaints on the work of police officers, border police mostly, of which 12 were established throughout the year, therefore estimated justified and if we include in the analysis the fact that the crossing of the border is about 5 million people and we have 64 complaints addressed, of which 12 justified, then the question is really asked whether such an independent body should be involved in this, this Parliamentary Assembly. I just want to say, with all this, that even such a report should be viewed positively, in fact with this number of police officers and police agencies, this is very optimistic that so few complaints. There's no appeal, but we have a board, so that was just my comment. Thank you very much. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16679	Thank you, too. Now, I hope we're done with the 10th agenda, right? We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2016, Act No: 05/3-50-19-402/17, of 07.02.2017 You got the report. The House College has designated the Joint Defence and Security Commission as competent to consider the report. The competent Commission forwarded Opinion 06/03/2017. The report was unanimously accepted and forwarded to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16681	The total discussion won't be 20 seconds, Mr. Chairman. In the context of the military commission's writing, I can't see anywhere that it was called to Annex I-A of the Dayton Peace Griment Treaty or agreement, something that is mandatory, something that is an integral part of what is called the BiH Constitution. No matter what anyone says, I don't see anywhere except in this body to find that kind of report, because in one point it's said: cooperation with others. But I don't see anywhere what treats I-A and I-B annexes the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16682	Thank you. Dear MP, there are no more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th agenda, Ad. 12. Reports on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, act No: 05/1-50-19-469/17, of 14/022017 and Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, act No: 05/1-50-19-467/17, since 14/02 You got your report and your work plan. The House College has designated the Joint Defence and Security Commission as responsible for considering the report. The competent Commission forwarded Opinion 06/03/2017. The Commission did not accept the report on the work, and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee was adopted. 75 I'm opening a debate. Dear representative Hanka Vajzović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16684	Thank you very much. This report was not supported by the Defence and Security Commission, the meeting was held yesterday. And I could also say the same in the package on the Citizens' Appeals Committee and this because both bodies are ours, the Parliamentary Assembly, and maybe not the Report, but I'm using the opportunity to say what we could and in the media might read to some, so it's problematicd, the resignation of the President of the Independent Committee, Mr Žika Krunić, who actually, who was called by the Commission for conflict of interest, left him 30 days, I don't know if this practice, to define herself, has also said that they have sanctions of some, and then man resigned. Now, of course, we have new commissions that choose new members of this Independent Committee, and I think that still, that our luxury is to keep these, to keep these committees alive, so to speak. Independents who do not serve their purpose. Yesterday, he also problemed fellow Bojić with the issue of attacking Mr. Vučić in Srebrenica, if nothing had been done, and there would have been a number of more likely issues of that kind. However, this is obviously not the case for those who, of whom we would expect to report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16685	Thank you. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Commission work report on conflict of interest decision 2016, act No 01,02,03-50-19-331/17, of 31.01.2017 You got the report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 14th agenda, Ad. 14. Reports on the work of the Permanent Commissions of the House of Representatives: (b) Report on the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, dated 18.01.2017; (b) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Affairs of the Representatives' House for 2016, issue: 01/2-50-3-181/17, of 15.02.2017; (c) Report on the work of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs at the Representative's House for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 07.02.2017; d) Report on the work of the Commission for Finance and Budget of the Foreign Trade and Customs Office for 2016, issue: 01-50-3-181/17, of 24.01.2017; e) Report on the work of the Commission for Transport and Communications of the House for 2016, issue of House of Representatives for 2016, No.17.17.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have nothing special but attention to the Secretariat, so it says in me "realization" in Croatian should be "realization" so I pray that this is not happening next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16691	Well, the services have taken note of that. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm closing the argument. We're going to the 17th agenda, Ad. 17. Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-2546/16. of 03.10.2016 You got the report. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 14 March 2017. The Commission unanimously accepted the report and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16693	...again I will not enter the metrics just a few, yet it will not last for more than half a minute, a few remarks that gentlemen from the Commission directly influence, and when you work in the audit you do not see, on the work of parliamentary parties. The law defined the financing of political parties, period. The House's decision correctly determines the way in which the allocation of funds is made in accordance with the budget item as much as and how it belongs to which political party. Now, I have to ask -- how is it that every quarter of you needs to write a request for funds belonging to a political party by budget and by the law of the Parliamentary Assembly to be sent to a political party? The party that I belong to, since you're writing it in the report so look there, and of course we're going to sue Parliament now because it's been hard for some clerk to come and say, you know, you have to apply for funds. Although I was present at all the meetings of Parliament, at all the meetings of all the committees, the funds were not paid. It's something that's abnormal in this House. Do you know about that? You don't know that, you don't know that. As the political parties that have their own club go for automation. And what kind of political parties are we sitting here trying to contribute to the work of this House and all the bodies this House has? Once again, who, how and how it is possible that 78 above the law is someone and that requires that funds be transferred to a political party if it is determined by law and budget, and that is the only place that exists here in this House. I checked no federal, no Republika Srpska Parliament, no cantonal, no municipality, just me and Mr. Emrić, we have the obligation to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16694	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 18, Ad. 18. Proposal for a resolution on the desire for progress of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer: MP Saša Magazinović, number: 01-02-2-490/17, since 16/02.2017 The motion for a resolution in the procedure was delivered on 1602.2017 and the motion for a resolution you received. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16696	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In determining the agenda here... we mentioned a lot when it came to this resolution, but here I am now sorry that Miss Maja is not here to tell her, therefore, that my motherland is Bosnia and Herzegovina and that I have no doubt about it. However, this country of my home to me and my people, which I represent, so unfortunately, all these years, it's almost more majorizing and frustrating than it's helping us, but it doesn't matter we've endured worse. On the other hand, therefore, I am a citizen of Croatia, which is also familiar, and the Croatian state has, in some ways, opened the world to me and to the world, and it is a country that has, in my opinion, helped Bosnia and Herzegovina a great deal for Bosnia and Herzegovina and now it does, and now it is the most serious partner and the best partner and the best neighbour of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I, it seems to me that this is a shame that we are talking about here today. When it comes to collecting wages, as my colleague told me, I'm sorry she's gone again, I guess she'll hear, so I don't think anyone pays me for something I don't do. So, I've been working in this country for over 30 years, and everything I've done has been paid me, i.e. what I've been paid for, i.e. it's not, it's not my colleague's employer, i'm not hers, i'm not anybody who pays for me here, but it's my employer who chose me in this House and these are my constituents. How, therefore, we did not accept these arguments at the beginning when we talked about the agenda, and in my opinion we brought this Parliament into a single power, a desire, therefore, so here we will help with the wishes of the good Republic of Croatia, so now that I have proposed that, uh, here I should withdraw and propose a resolution, as I have suggested not to repeat myself, I might also accept this proposal if we would respect the amendments that I am about to present and submit. 79 First of all, the Amendment I – The Proposal for a Resolution on Desire and Progress for the Republic of Croatia is added a new point 1 which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH considers it extremely important that the Republic of Croatia finally joins the implementation of the provisions of the Washington Agreement, i.e. finally access to the formation and launch of the Federation Forum, and that it implements the provisions of the same on specific relations with the Federation of BiH and the establishment of confederal relations". Points 1 to 6 so far become points 2 to 7. Amendment II – In point 2, which became point 3 at the end of the text behind the word "years", that is the second amendment, the point is placed and the word "especially after establishing confederal relations with the Federation of BiH" is added. Amendment III – At the present point 4, which became point 5 at the end of the text behind the word "state", the words "and especially help the Federation of BiH as its confederal part" are inserted. In Amendment VI(?) – In the previous point of 5, which became point 6 at the end of the text behind the word “Croatia” is placed a decimal and add the words “as if finally cleared with the totalitarian regime and its relapses by passing a lustration law”. Since this is going to be a confederate so we can then influence there, which is... in that society. The amendment next, it is – In the present point of 6 which became point 7 at the end of the text in the word "Hercegovina" is placed on the point and added the words "as Bosnia and Herzegovina will solve the issue of pollution produced by the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship, i.e. that similar questions will be addressed through the Federation Forum". So these are the amendments that I'm going to propose to adopt with this resolution, so maybe you could even get the strength to even support that resolution, in order to sort out the relationship between the two good neighbours, uh, for the benefit of everyone. And, of course, at the end of the day, I can only wish the Croatian Hrvat from the Republic of Croatia good luck, I guess our declaration will help them too. Thank you very much, Resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16697	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Saša Magazinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16698	I don't claim to be the chairman, but here's the thing I want to consult, the result of the anxiety at the HDZ Club, I've only been able to apply to the third, fourth, this one, and I'm guessing this 164 is about that the motionor should present the document at the beginning, is he? Well, I'm asking you now -- is it possible for me to get as a proposing word for me to say about this document, and then to develop a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16699	You can, say what you have, though you could apply right now, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16700	I am, but it's speed, the chairman, it's... 80
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16701	And it's not like that, I mean... Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16702	It just couldn't match that speed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16703	Please don't say, uh, Mr. Magazinović, you're the Proposer of the Resolution what you have, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16704	Okay. So, I'm going to use my 20 minutes on the Rules of Procedure as a pronoun to say about this document, so it says in the Rules of Procedure, I won't, of course, I don't need that much. So, today’s resolution in front of representatives of the House of Representatives does not need to be considered in any kind of neurosis, or with any mistrust. We are witnessing that countries in our environment as well as Bosnia and Herzegovina, as their foreign policy objectives have good neighbourly co-operation. Maybe it's a little bit of a problem that we don't all understand in the same way, but I don't want to suspect any of them for good purposes. What makes good wishes for the progress of the Republic of Croatia rather than other neighbours, Montenegro, Serbia or anyone else? Because Croatia is the most active in its good intentions these days to help solve the accumulated problems within Bosnia and Herzegovina with its advice, care and other ways. And not just today, but these things have been going on for many years, and, like I said, it's kind of embarrassing for a man how much care and attention they give us without us returning it. And this resolution is actually an attempt for us to equally show concern for events in neighbouring Croatia. The preamble of the document itself, therefore, also speaks of foreign policy priorities both for our Republic of Croatia, for how we share the common past and we want to share a common future, as we hope that we have learned something from the past together. And here I am, not to convince you now, and you've all received some of you in detail and read this document. The content of the Resolution itself is very well-intentioned and effectively subdued, all of what it says here as problems that have been recorded in our neighbouring country are topics which, among other things, have been treated by the Parliament, the public and the media in the Republic of Croatia. Since we are small countries, that this region is traditionally based on one another, there is, of course, the possibility that problems from one country are being poured into another. We wouldn't want some of the things that are bad, and there are a lot of those better, colleagues of Lovrinović, in Croatia, but we wouldn't want to say some of the bad things that happen temporarily to have such an effect. And that's why we care about making these things right. This is why we call, and I think it's friendly, in good interest, to pay attention to the State Department report, you've all had the opportunity to hear in the past few days a new report, which is not significantly different from the previous one, and that the correcting of the things that the US administration is, as far as I can see in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we care about, whose opinion we care about, recorded as problems, especially when it comes to discrimination against national minorities, women, LGBT communities, social discrimination, but also corruption in government, problems in respect of human rights, etc. I also think that the wrongly interpreted position (2) of this Resolution is literally understood by a number of people, calling for the status of a constituent nation to be given to national minorities. No, it doesn't actually say that, who read 81 well-intentionally, it says here that we are calling on the government and the Parliament to respect the messages they themselves, and in order to provide a reconciliation hand in the region to consider the possibility, colleague Lovrinović, therefore, not to give it, they may decide in some other way, but to consider the possibility of a special definition of status and rights to national minorities, especially one whose number has been drastically reduced during the 1990s war conflicts. You are all under way that there is a very important process in Croatia that aims to face the past and that a commission has been established, although some of the parliamentary deputies are calling for and to form a commission to face the present, because there is much to be said. Furthermore, we call on the Government and the Council of the Republic of Croatia to be aware of the corruption index for the past year, which shows that Croatia has gone back in the fight against corruption and to be reunited with corrupt states, concrete and credible works. So it can't be any more friendly advice than this, especially when it comes from a country that has a huge experience with crime and corruption, especially in power. And the judicial institutions aren't obviously immune to that either. So maybe some of our mistakes could teach you a lot. Unlike Bosnia and Herzegovina, their chief prosecutor does not change so often. The balanced development of Croatia is something we want for ourselves, so here in Parliament was a very common debate on the need for a balanced development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the government of the Republic of Croatia itself is aware of this problem, so we are not talking about anything new. We consider it important to stop strengthening right-wing movements as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Porous border, it quickly crosses, should be prevented, and we, therefore, are sending this message to Croatia keeping an eye on the person. People are prone to everything today, they see it on TV, so they think they should too, so it's very well-meaning. And finally about the problem we talked about here in Parliament, about the storage and disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste near the border, I agree and that it should also be of equal respect to our side when it comes to what is happening in the north. But here, these are some things, you have no idea how many different ideas were made by the MPs, after this resolution was handed over, that it, by its creativity, contributed to this being one richer document, but let's just say that we're stuck at these six points, although there could have been a lot more. That's what I'm gonna do for now, and then I have the right to engage.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16705	Thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto, deputy chairman, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16706	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues welcome you all. I reported under the rule of law, I do not belong and I do not find myself in what the esteemed colleague Magazinović says, that there was a race on this wheel and that he could not apply under discussion. I just gave up the debate, but I thought my colleague Magazinović as one experienced MP in the parliamentary life in Bosnia and Herzegovina would come up with some knowledge until this point comes to the agenda. In that sense, I do not want to show my love for the Republic of Croatia in any way here, it is really great and it is my right, I hope, as well as yours, especially the neighbouring, friendly country and how to develop and strengthen these relations if not in a manner of institutional and political cooperation. I do not see that 82 Republic of Croatia has interfered in any way in relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina. We had a meeting yesterday, members of the College, with Montenegro's president, who also pointed out that he wants to see Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country of three constitutionally equal peoples in the future. Should we have mentioned something about Montenegro and all or others today? But why did I report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Personally, I don't think it's a good text to respect what's being said in advance as in the paragraph of Resolution. But I would like to remind the esteemed Mr Magazinović, when he recently referred to Article 164 of the introduction around this Resolution, then I remind him that before that there is an article 163 that says, the submission of the resolution – the House can express its position on important political issues and establish the policy guidelines to be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH and other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I ask you, dear and dear colleagues and fellow MPs in this House – Does this resolution refer to the numbered institutions in this Rules of Procedure? And I'm just going to briefly refer to something, remind you, and you have it in front of you: 1. The Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives considers it important for the authorities in Croatia to respect the position of the State Department. 2. The House of Representatives calls on the Government and the Assembly of Croatia to consider giving the status of the constituent people, etc. 3. The House of Representatives calls on the government and parliament to be aware of last year's corruption index that Croatia has returned, etc., to re-group into corrupt countries. 4. Then again, the House of Representatives invites the most responsible politicians in the Republic of Croatia to take concrete action, etc., etc. In order not to further extend, I call on this House first, because I believe that this resolution has no business basis, that this House, at this point, when it is already on the agenda, must first be declared and I suggest a conclusion that we make clear whether this House has a business basis in Article 163? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16707	Thank you. The word has respected representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16708	I referirati to the presentation of my colleague, Agent Nikola Lovrinović, and I would ask not only Nikola, but future all MPs not to get into what is not in the treatment of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I know exactly what's in the Washington and Vienna Agreement, and I know it well, but I also know that by signing an older act of the Dayton Peace Act, it's the same ad act, the same ad act. And citing things here that can only cause tension doesn't have any need. The confederacy is gone, because it can't be the same. And don't, I'll discuss what Mr. Magazinović gave and I'll say what I think very openly, but these are things that we shouldn't be representing in this country but we should just as some boomerang or ball to fight back to someone to talk to. There's also a split, there's this hebeth deal, I know them, but I'm telling you they're not in effect. Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16709	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative Monika Tomić, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16710	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr Magazinović, I allow myself to be wrong, but I assume that your resolution for the progress of the Republic of Croatia is the European Parliament resolution on Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I'm very sorry that these two years I've never heard from you any motion resolution, such as amending the current practice allowing one constituent nation to choose a representative of another constituent nation. Resolution on the implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling for the City of Mostar, a resolution on how Hrvat should have a public TV system in Croatian and many other resolutions in which Hrvat would be an equal people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And to remind you, the Republic of Croatia has a constitutional obligation to protect Hrvat outside the Republic of Croatia and is one of the signatories of Dejton, which gives it the right to care for the situation of Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to monitor the implementation of the Dayton Agreement and comment on the violation of the same if it is to harm the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16711	The speaker, Šefik Džaferović, answered the word, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16712	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I belong to those who believe that such material should not have been found on the agenda of today's House of Representatives and I hereby and knowingly declare this in the function of a man who currently represents this high House, protects its integrity, Constitution and Rules of Procedure, and I have reported for it. I didn't want to prevent the procedural possibilities for this point not to come to the agenda, because I believe that everything that comes from an authorised promoter should be seen brightly in this room, but I said that I would speak very openly on this subject. And right now, let me say that this is a very unsuspecting thing, this is not how it is done, and this is not how relations are built, and this is not how the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be handled. I believe that the Republic of Croatia has problems at all points from 1st to 6th as stated in this document, and I can speak of them, but I should not do so within this House using this high institution and not abuse its importance and dignity. Especially when it is said that the proposals that have recently been coordinated come from politicians from the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, concerning internal policies and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, aim to provide advice on a number of issues achieved in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then to show the desire to offer suggestions and advice equally well to the friendly and neighbouring state of Croatia and its most responsible politicians sincerely wish for a better standard of living and human rights for all Croatian citizens, and then propose this text. I condemn every politician and every institution from any country in the world, including the Republic of Croatia, who interferes with my country's internal affairs, and there is no dilemma. But my answer and my country's response should not be as it is directed towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, if it is targeted. We should be serious here, and if 84 needs to do what, and we have a problem with relations with the Republic of Croatia, then we should say that as our position and adopt a resolution on this issue, which they are then obliged to implement both the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly. The resolution is a serious document adopted by this House and this silly, slightly said, way the SDP tries to bring this document here into Parliament is something that is absolutely unacceptable. And I am not saying that there are problems in the Republic of Croatia that are numbered under points 1 to 6, which I can talk about, not saying that there are inappropriate statements by politicians from the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so by not denying that, I cannot support this, because this is not a way of communication between sovereign states. I want my country to be serious, my Parliament to be serious and to answer seriously and with dignity if we have any problems. That's why I can't support this today. I've said this very well aware of all possible risks, but also of the responsibilities I have as chairman of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16713	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović. Is there a debate left or is it both? There's a debate left, you want a correction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16714	Again, not wanting to enter the controversy, my esteemed colleague, HDZ MPs, about equality and inequality, and I don't know what not anymore, but let's just avoid that vocabulary here for the simple reason that when the overall analysis is done, we're going to have a picture, not equality just what I think is equality. Yesterday on the commission, I had the following situation of the Directorate for indirect taxation of total employees, 30, about 36% of Hrvat, so much about equality, 36% of all employees. We just had the data that Denis Zvizdić gave us, and that's how the data is going to row now, so we're going to see what it really is. Not to mention the media space, regardless of this attack and desire, I understand the desire, and I absolutely understand it and immediately tell you that I will support that when it comes to language being fully equal, but in the whole media space, in the whole, I don't have that dilemma. Just about that and the constant threat, here's an example where we're sitting, so when you get into Hadzic and then you go..., Stanić, Konzum and so on, so you'll see... you'll talk about this equality and inequality. And so I can tell you DM, CM, because people think that breast markets are the one from Germany, it's not, it's not... the ambassador is being warned on time/... in Bosnia and Herzegovina is from Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik, given the circumstances of my friend. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's not a topic, but let's not talk about equality here, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16716	Thank you very much. The word has respected representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16717	I thank the chairman. Member, first of all, to thank my colleague Krišto for the kind words she has given me in terms of my experience and my work, I know that you think and you know what I have, what I think about you, but let's get back to this, Article 163, among other things, says that the House resolution can express its position. And that's the part that's the basis for this. However, I am a little surprised by the unarticulated position of the HDZ Club where one representative feels that this resolution is not in line with our Rules of Procedure, while others are making amendments to that same Resolution. But well, that'll be stalking, uh, by the end of the term. Mrs. Tomić, what she was saying, I'd probably get a lot of things with her, uh, agreed, there's nothing for me here, Mrs. Tomić, controversially, I'm willing to talk about any of these topics. Part of the SDA Club has publicly supported this Resolution, and here we see a part of the Club is against, doesn't consider it good, which says democracy knocks on the door and this party. It is important that my colleague Džaferović, whom I always refer to, I take care of how I do it and what words I will read, agrees with the accuracy of the quote, but I must correct him that this is not funny at all, these are very serious topics. It's about corruption, economics, international relations, so maybe it sounds funny to someone, but this is a very serious matter. In the end, I am not surprised at all, and I am not surprised that the SDA and HDZ have a close attitude on this issue, because we have seen that the common forces in the Federation House of Representatives have made it difficult to adopt the agenda on which the agenda should be the point of the agenda where the House should declare itself on the idea of federalisation. So, I absolutely expected something like this, but here we'll see what's going to happen here, and what happens in the Federal Parliament on March 21st when the session is scheduled with just that point of the agenda. And finally, I am aware that this resolution, even if adopted, and I think that in some normal circumstances Parliament would be, it will have the effect to solve problems in Croatia just as much as the advice from Croatia, not only on federalisation, but on various issues, will have an effect on solving problems within Bosnia and Herzegovina. But we as good neighbors, as people who think well of each other, are simply obliged to say some things.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16718	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Diana Zelinik, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16719	Thank you. I apologize for throwing Backović, uh, at once, because I'm the one fighting for some kind of culture of dialogue. I was gonna say he missed a theme like that. He's talking about equality here, uh, so while we're at it, we could talk about selecting members of the presidency and representatives of the federal home of the people. That's what Mr. Beganović and Fejzić are about... to withdraw vital national interest, etc., but it's not the subject of this. It mentions these points of the agenda, Stanić mentioned, etc., companies everywhere. It's about ability, not national representation. My Kolega, Magazinović, here is a colleague, who has already referred to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as taking care of the Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which she was doing with a heart attack. And since he is already friendly 86, he may have been able to thank one point of the agenda, one point of this resolution thanks the Republic of Croatia for providing 300 to 500 thousand moss with Bošnjak, not only women and children, but also men, this, during the merciless and past war. And apart from Croatia, he certainly could have cleaned up primarily in front of his door, and then probably sent one such resolution, this one, to other countries of the environments that were part of the former Yugoslavia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16720	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16721	So, to Mr. Backović, one part of my replica or, I don't know, the correction of the wrong quote was told by Mrs. Diana Zelenika. Whenever we go into some kind of equality conversation, therefore institutional, we return from colleagues from the Bosniak people's ranks to cartoon. So, we simply, what can we do... to this, Mr Backović, in Parliament, who is respected here by representatives and representatives of the Croatian people. This is the state of the constituent peoples. You are constantly out of position, citizen options and arrangements of the state you may want, that is your right, to extract our constitutionality and to have us for some minutes and some hours at public tv services or anywhere written, to talk about editing the program, to speak about the identity of the Croatian people, is not just a language. Language is one of the most important, faith, and I don't know what. So, come on, don't let us, if you want to talk seriously, we're ready, we put the agenda point to discuss this once taboo topic, let's see what equality is, what we mean by that, what do you think by that, and we'll talk about it, it's no problem at all. But don't worry about it, so about some numbers, we'll be disabling here. As far as Mr Magazinović is concerned, there is no problem with the amendment if the conclusion made by Mrs Krišto is respected, in accordance with Article 163. Rules of Procedure, today we do not state about this Resolution, that is, to say that it does not satisfy the business provisions, no problem is that the amendments are withdrawn because of what you have made of all of this, therefore, a kind of parade. And otherwise I can't get the impression that lately, I've said, lefty,...more, so when it comes to the streets that some others are bothered by it's just Mostar and it's not like Bugojno Sultan Ahmetov's, etc., or some resolution, you always find something, maybe you love us more, so you expect something more than we do, so I respect it, but here's just something you're onto us..., I don't know what. And on the other hand, if you support the amendment, if you do not support Mrs. Borjana's conclusion, be sure that we will support your resolution just support these amendments and there is no problem. Then we will be able to speak more openly about what is done in Croatia or not. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16722	Thank you. The word has, correcting the wrong allegations, the esteemed Denis Bećirović. Mr. Zaim Backović, this is the third announcement, he has the right to... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16723	87 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16724	You're right, it's all the same, you have the right to discuss. Therefore, I ask the system to delete this correction of the wrong quote regarding Zaim Backović. Mr. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16725	So, first of all, it should be determined that every MP, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has the right to propose certain legal acts and is also used by counterpart Magazinović, he proposed this Resolution, as we have now had the opportunity to hear the views of SDA MPs, Mr Džaferović. Neither Mr. Magazinović nor Mr. Džaferović, I hope, presupposed to speak on behalf of the entire clubs. We don't need things like that, Mr. Džaferović, to watch black and white. When the club is signed whole, then the club is a proposing, when it's an MP, then it's an MP. In this case, there are several SDA deputies who said they would support this. So, don't let there be a black white picture. Secondly, I believe that we should develop the best possible relations with the Republic of Croatia on the principles of equality, mutual respect and development of our good neighbourly co-operation, from economy, politics and beyond. And I honestly believe that in this establishment of good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Bosnia and Hrvat, as one of the equal peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can have a comparative advantage in that. And if we're smart, we should use it in a positive way. The resolution proposed by colleague Magazinović could be summed up into a word that you should remember well, that word is equality. So Bosnia and Herzegovina and its representatives will always advocate equality. And today, during the debate on the agenda, we had an interpretation of one HDZ MP who said Croatia has the right to interfere in the internal relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina does not. Look, no one can say that in this state parliament. Everyone must know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a full member of the UN, that it is the same Republic of Croatia, and that there is a principle of sovereign equality among the UN member states in their relations. It's one of the fundamental principles and principles. And I can't believe a message like that could come from the state parliament. If we have to remind them – Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia are fully recognised in April, i.e. in the spring of 1992, as members of the UN when they restored, both their statehood, which they lost in the Middle Ages, and in the Second World War at ZAVNOBiH and ZAVNOH. Some villain might mention April 10, '41. I want to say openly that no one should question this, both Croatia and the Croatian people are in the vast majority belonged to the Antifascist movement as well as to other nations and this should not be misused. [[Employee is warned on time]] The only truth is that Bosnia and Herzegovina had a lower discontinuity of its statehood compared to Croatia, I speak from the Middle Ages to the 20th century. The discontinuity of the Croatian state is almost nine centuries, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Bosnia, is about 4.5 centuries at the time. Therefore, our message and this Resolution should be – we build the best possible relationships, we build on the principles of equality, don't interfere with Zagreb's internal affairs in Bosnia and Herzegovina or vice versa, and there will be no problems. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16726	Thank you very much. I hope this was a discussion, which is why I didn't interrupt even though it was two and a half minutes. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16727	I wanted to report for the debate, the discussion, but my colleague Džaferović, the speaker of Parliament, said, I would say, a good part of what and a more important part of what I also wanted to talk about, so I will only correct one guilty quote by my colleague Bećirović. He used a colloquial term here by Bosnian Hrvat. Hrvat in Bosnia and Herzegovina are either Hrvat from Bosnia and Herzegovina or possibly Bosnian Croat Hrvat. I wouldn't be so petty as to react to the Bosnian Hrvat flossule that it does not represent all this attitude towards the constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in such a way as to, this, coloroquial name that degrades Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is not Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is Bosnia and Herzegovina. I come from Herzegovina, I am a Hrvat from Herzegovina, a Bosnian-Herzegovina Hrvat, a Hrvat from Bosnia and Herzegovina, or if you want a rope from Hrvat. The term, an ugly, Bosnian Hrvat, I will call it ugly, is just representing SDP's policy towards the constituent peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16728	Thank you very much. Mr. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16729	I thought that the replica would be something else, but that it might be ugly that someone, uh, calls for people living in Bosnia and Herzegovina or for the term of Bosnian Hrvat, then I can only recommend that we look at what all people have written and done over the past centuries, from Bosnian Franjevac, from the vast part of it, to the store to say, from the Middle Ages Ivan Jukić to the present days, and not to say, here, to the modern XXth century. There's nothing ugly about it, but we should be proud of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16730	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16731	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16732	Let the system rule out this discussion from Mr Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16733	Not wanting to get back into the metrics of what's been delivered, I'd have to react when I'm, like, human. when such resolutions are submitted. We must have any common relations on this very damn Balkans, cursed, with all sides. The one-sided relationship of the state doesn't lead to good, but that 89 is not resolved by the resolution, Saša really can't be solved by what would be done. He can't. One-sided interpretation doesn't work either. One who says someone has gained the right to care then forgets that there is a concern on the other. So it's a two-sided relationship. The action has a reaction, the reaction has action and it's like one... up and down. And so we must observe things if we observe the relationships of those who are called states. Of course, I will not support any amendments that I have received because he is in line with the Constitution, and the Constitution of BiH does not know, but I will also never accept that the Hrvat my friend Vlado Šantić, you see by chance the name Vladimir Šantić as well as the one from Bihać, but so called, is not the Hrvat from Tuzla and that he cannot be elected to the House of People tomorrow, as I will not accept that the Hrvat from Stupa are not Hrvat, as I will not accept that Željko Komšić is not Hrvat. It's something that, Željko, you regularly congratulate me, Bajrame, I congratulate you, Božić, all the holidays, neatly, you know that. But I won't accept that Maja Gasal is not Hrvatica and so on. We still have to go here, not to party national, but to what defines the Constitution. [[Common discussion]] I'm talking. May I ask you gentlemen the chairman, you give me your word, and then I can't speak to the intruders, and you talk neatly there, and you're not ready to warn them. Explain to me why. So he can go into my word any way he wants you to keep your mouth shut. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16736	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16737	Please don't, don't, please, Mr. Lovrinović, I beg you don't get into the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16738	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16739	So I'm running a session, I'm gonna say... ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16740	Only one religion. I know the Hrvat of Islamic events, I know the Hrvat of evangelists, I know the Hrvat of Protestants, I know the Hrvat... and so on. It's not just the Croatian Corps of 90 religion. And so on. But I say again, I disagree with the approach, it's in the sphere of real policy relations of the top states. And this is what you gentlemen from Parliament, who are chairing, should have discussed when the chairman of the Croatian Parliament was here, because very often words that are inappropriate in the Croatian Parliament about neighbouring country, neighbouring countries or so. So we need to talk parity. [[Employee is warned on time]] If you talk to those who are like you, then talk to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16741	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16742	vro brief, Chairman, in the end. As it usually happens in this House, from the problems in Croatia, we reach the Hrvat on the Stup where I live. And they're right colleagues from HDZ, it wasn't a topic, but here's my colleague, Backović. He's got a vivid expression, so whoever has a concentration can always figure out what he's trying to say. My kolegica, Zelenika, I am not afraid of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or I have sworn to the Constitution of BiH. As for Sultan Ahmed in Bugojn, kolega Lovrinović, please contact your coalition partners from the SDA, I did not install him there, and everything you have regarding the sultans and the rest of that you know where your address is. Finally, this resolution aims to send a message of need for co-operation on principles of equality and mutual respect. All those who understand differently, I think they missed out on the subject. And I was glad that in today's discussion, and otherwise the discussion that was led on on this topic, I saw that we all don't have the same relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we don't all have the same self-respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16743	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the next item on the agenda, Ad. 19. Information on the Annual Plan for Training and Exercise of Members and Units of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-2884/16, since 10.11.2016 The Joint Commission for Defence and Security delivered its opinion on the Information on the Annual Training and Exercise Plan on 17 January 2017. The Commission took note of the Annual Plan and referred it to a further parliamentary procedure. I'm opening a debate. 91 I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. Information from the BiH Ministry of Defence on the Defence Review document (under the conclusion of the BiH Presidency No: 03/1-03-3131/16, from 13/12/2016)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16749	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16750	Voting on a proposal for security, so, debates, please just, couple, two minutes just breaks. We have a quorum problem here. Get the agents to the O.R. Mr. jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You asked for a word, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16751	... point to the quorum, the system shows...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16752	And that's it, that's it, don't worry about it, we're taking care of it. Thank you very much. What's the status now? 3,5,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21. _________(?) There's 22 now. 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22. I counted 22, I think we have a quorum. Give the secretary another count, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16754	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16755	So we have a quorum. So, we are voting now, before we move to point 23. I suggest that a joint debate on points 23 to 32, given that it is about giving consent to the ratification of amendments, memoranda, agreements and conventions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, no problem, four abstentions. There's no entity majority. 93 We're going straight to the second round. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, no problem, five abstentions. There is a general majority, there is no 2/3 against the entity of Republika Srpska, I realize that we have united this debate. Ad. 23. - Ad. Thirty-two. Giving consent to the ratification of amendments, memos, agreements and conventions The opinion, therefore, of the Commission in charge of external affairs has been given to you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate because no one answered the question. Before, before we move to the 33rd item of the agenda...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16757	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16758	What a watch, what a what.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16759	It takes an hour, it needs a watch.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16760	Why?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16761	... KTZ review and all this, it should, it's scheduled and... an hour. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16762	Well, here, they tell me I have to say this. I'll give you an hour's rest before I go to the 33rd agenda point. [[Common discussion]] Well, I told you I had to say it, so I'm told by the service. I have to listen. I note that material for this item of the agenda, therefore 33rd, for confidentiality, was available exclusively to the security officer of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that it is not possible to present it. You could have made an insight into the materials in office No. 215, 2nd floor. Since the material for this point has a "confidential" sign, it is closed to the public, so I ask the guests to leave the room. Thank you. 94 And before we take a break, I would like to remind you that it is prohibited to enter a cell phone, laptop and other equipment that can make audio or video while considering the point of “confidential”. So, please, I'm taking a break until 6:00, it's a request from the service, and I have to respect it, and they have to do what they need to do to comply with the law. We'll continue at 6:00. At 6:00 p.m., when we're done with this point, we'll immediately approach the vote on the whole session and no longer have to take a break. Pause until 6:00. In the meantime, the clubs, the voting consultations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16765	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16766	Please, please prepare for the vote, we're going to vote. So, the first item of the agenda – adoption of the minutes of the 41st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, no problem, six abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Are we gonna get along now?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16767	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16768	Get back to work later. We are going to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Šemsudin Mehmedović, Law No: 01-02-1-2610/16, from 10.10.2016. Prepare to vote, we vote on the bill. Vote now. 95 27 for, no problem, five abstentions. There are no thirds of the Republika Srpska entity. Bride?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16769	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16770	He says everything later. So, the alignment later. Let's go, please, to point six. – Proposal for a law supplementing the Administration Act – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, from 06.01.2017. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 4 against, abstention 5. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Bride?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16771	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16772	Post-adjustment, okay. We're going to point 7. – Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Act on additional value – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/17, from 26/01.2017. We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, no problem, abstention 11. No entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. It's an ex post adjustment, isn't it? It's an ex post adjustment. We're going to the 8th agenda, a little bit at this point on the 8th agenda to see if this is the Commission's report or whether it's the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16773	This is the law now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16774	And why do I have the College's report?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16775	That's what the point was called, now we're voting on the law. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16776	So, please, the 8th point is, therefore – Report from the Commission of the College of Representatives of the House of Representatives on an effort to reach agreement on the request of the Members...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16777	One, it's the first round.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16778	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16779	We're voting on the law in the first round.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16780	So, I love you, so point 8, we are voting now, since we voted on the College Report during the session and there were no two-thirds against and adopted an emergency procedure, we are now voting on the Law, therefore, on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure (Law No: 01-02-1-105/17, since 11.01.2017). Prepare to vote, we vote on the law. Vote now. 23 votes for, 4 votes against, 5 abstentions. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Bride?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16781	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16782	It's an ex post adjustment. We move to item 9 of the agenda – Report on the application of the Single Rules for the construction of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-1-126/17, since 12.01.2017. Prepare to vote, we vote on adoption of the report. 17 for, 6 against, 9 abstentions. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Agreeing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16783	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16784	Later. Well, then there's no point in voting on the conclusions, is there, there's no point. 97 Let's go to point 10., on the conclusions we will then vote later – Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2016, act No: 05/2-50-19-386/17, since 07.02.2017. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 7 against, 6 abstentions. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16785	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16786	Get back to work later. We move to item 11 of the agenda – Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2016, Act No: 05/3-50-19-402/17, from 07.02.2017. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. 26 for, no problem, six abstentions. It has general, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Agreeing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16787	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16788	Later. Moving to point 12. – Reports on the work of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2016, act No: 05/1-50-19-469/17, of 14/022017 and Working Plan of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2017, act No: 05/1-50-19-467/17, since 14.02.2017. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 for, 20 against, 5 abstentions. There's no general majority here, so this report hasn't been adopted. We are voting on receiving the same institution's work plan. Prepare to vote. 17 for, 5 against, 10 abstentions. There's a general plan for work, but there's no entity majority. It's a later adjustment, isn't it? 98
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16789	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16790	Okay. We move to item 13 of the agenda – Report on the Commission's work to decide on a conflict of interest for 2016, act No: 01,02,03-50-19-331/17, from 31.01.2017. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 8 against, 7 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entities. Malden?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16791	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16792	Post-adjustment, okay. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Reports on the work of permanent committees of the House of Representatives. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 3 against, 6 abstentions. There is a general, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Later?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16793	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16794	Post-adjustment, okay. Point 15. – Reports on the work of permanent joint committees both home PSBiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 for, 1 against, 8 abstentions. There is no general majority entity from Republika Srpska entities. Bride?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16795	Later. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16796	Later. So, later alignment, good. We're going to point 16. – Report on the implementation of recommendations from the Human Rights Institution of BiH regarding the Special Report on the Accessibility of Labour Spaces of Legislative Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to Persons with Disabilities, applicant: Human Rights Institution of BiH, Act No: 03/6.01,02,03-37-226/17, since 23.01.2017. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 1 against, 12 abstentions. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16797	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16798	It's an ex post adjustment. Moving to point 17. – Report on the reviewed state of financial operations of political parties in 2014, material of the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01.02- 16-1-2546/16. of 03.10.2016. Prepare to vote, we vote on the report. 15 for, no problem, 17 abstentions. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. Get back to work later. We move to item 18 of the agenda – Proposal for a resolution on the desire for progress of the Republic of Croatia – Proposer: MEP Saša Magazinović, issue: 01-02-2-490/17, since 16/02.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for the conclusion of Mr. Borjana Krišto. Prepare to, if not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 14 for, 9 against, 9 abstentions. There is a general majority for this proposal, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16799	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16800	It's an ex post adjustment, isn't it? All right, later alignment. 100 We move to item 19 of the agenda, because there is no point in voting before we finish voting on this conclusion – Information on the Annual Training Plan of Members and Units of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-2884/16, since 10.11.2016. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We're receiving this information. 24 for, without against, 8 abstentions. There is a general, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16801	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16802	Post-adjustment, okay. Let's go to point 20. – Information from the BiH Ministry of Defence on the Defence Review document (under the conclusion of the BiH Presidency No: 03/1-03-3131/16, from 13/12/2016). We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 8 against, 7 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16803	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16804	It's an ex post adjustment. Moving to point 21. – Considering the resignation of Miroslav Škorić as a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, act No: 01,02,05/134-1199/17, as of 20 January 2017 and Proposal for a decision on the discharge of an independent board member as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, act No: 01,02-34-1-199/17, since 01.02.2017. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, no problem, 13 abstentions. No, there is a general, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16805	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16806	Post-adjustment, okay. 101 Does it have any purpose then to form this on establishing a temporary...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16807	Nothing until it's resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16808	Until he's relieved of his duty. So point 22, according to the Collateral on the appointment of the Interim Commission, there is no point until the resolution issue is resolved, that is the position of this College, and then we will not plead on point 22. I pray that this is recorded as being the position of the College, which Parliament has been informed of for these reasons. We're going to the point, so we're voting on a proposal to make a statement on points 23 to 32 in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 2 against, 5 abstentions. There's a general, no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16809	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16810	You agree, so we have consent, here we get to go to the second round. Prepare to vote in the second round. Vote now. 23 for, 1 against, 8 abstentions. No, there is a general majority, there is no 2/3 against the Republika Srpska entity. So we decided to declare ourselves in a package of dots from 23 to 32. We now vote on granting consent to ratification by points 23 to 32. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, no problem, eight abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16811	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16812	It's an ex post adjustment. Consideration of materials marked ''confidential'', act number: P – Pov – 07-03-10-9- 49/16, since 17.11.2016. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. 102 Vote now. 21 for, 1 against, 10 abstentions. There is a general, but there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska's entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16813	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-03-07-0.u16814	It's an ex post adjustment. Dear ladies and gentlemen, remain for one second. So tomorrow is March 8th International Women's Day, on behalf of the College and my name to all women in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I give sincere congratulations on the occasion of International Women's Day. I'm closing the 42nd session of the House of Representatives. I note that the next House session was planned for 23 March 2017. Thank you for your cooperation. Session completed at 6:45.
