ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20133	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 52nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome once again our distinguished guests at today's House session, with guests, presidents and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations or embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who follow the work of our House and media representatives. I warmly welcome all MPs and guests. BiH Council of Ministers' Office Denis Zvizdić, BiH Minister of Communications and Transport Ismir Juska and BiH Civil Affairs Minister Igor Crnadko have provided information on the inability to attend today's session of presidents and ministers. The Office of the Presidents of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, Milan Tegeltija, also provided a notice of the inability of the chairman to attend today's session, but a representative was delivered, the presence of a secure representative of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. The absence was justified by representative Diana Zelenika, and Asim Sarajlić announced the delays. According to the information service, there are 36 representatives present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to mention the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. Representative Borislav Bojić's request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. Point 9. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17 of 12.05.2017. Point 10. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I propose mandatory inclusion in the agenda of the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Assembly of Points: Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest guaranteed price and the safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH, and a proposal for a response to this initiative", issue: 01-50-1-1623/17 of 05.07.2017. 2 Point 18. Adherence to ratification of the Loan Agreement (Land for Public Finance Development Policy) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-2184/17 of 08/09/2017. On the agenda, at the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the following point 8. By way of derogation from the Protocol, supplementing and amending certain provisions of the Agreement on Air Transport between the Government of the State of Qatar and the Council of Ministers of BiH, No 01,02-05-2-2037/17, of 1608/2017. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20134	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague, ministers. I proposed two, three initiatives and the College of Parliament ignored what I proposed earlier. Let's say that no initiative has ever appeared in the BiH Parliament or agenda item "Information on language learning throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina" or indicative, implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental Education. But here, since it was a long time ago, so you forgot, I was in the last session, which is the freshest one, suggested the conclusion, that is, the item of the agenda and the conclusion that this Parliament adopted here, that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers collect the signatures of MPs whose support is in its work, so that in the coming period, a position on the status of the Council of Ministers could be adopted. I don't know why you ignored the conclusion that this House has brought and that you don't put this item on the agenda in that conclusion. I've read that some have said it's unserious, but I think quite the opposite. It is known that in parliamentary democracies, those who have or do not have a majority, it is proven in a way that they have the support of most of the MPs in the home they choose. This was recently done by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and also, almost in the same period, was done by the president of the Macedonian government, Mr Zaev. What is normal in the environment and in parliamentary democracies is declared inconclusive here. I think you are inconclusive because you are not putting the conclusion of the Parliament you are chairing. Every day we can hear those who have proposed the mandate, which is the Presidency, say publicly to the citizens of this country that there is no parliamentary majority, and that the minimum they could do is that they have consulted with the parties to know whether or whether we have the capacity to address the accumulated problems and issues that are important to this country and to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call on you and I propose to put you on the agenda – Information College of the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, the College of the House of Representatives and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers on the Implementation of the Conclusion adopted by this Parliament, which reads – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament is in charge of the Council of Ministers, Denis Zvizdić, to inform this Parliament today about the conclusion for which this Parliament is bound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20135	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20136	I thank the chairman. I welcome you, deputy, colleagues, colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected ministers and ministers and all others present. A colleague, Sadik Ahmetović, with full right, is seeking to realize Parliament's conclusions, but we are only diverged in the address. I do not think that the College of the House of Representatives is responsible whether the Council of Ministers, or individual ministers or even the chairman of the Council of Ministers, respects or disrespects us. In this case, this is a second one, and I really support the fact that as soon as possible this whole story of relations between Parliament and the Council of Ministers is normalised and that, here is the College, in its capacity to make additional efforts for the Council of Ministers to begin to respect Parliament's conclusions. But what we can do here is respect ourselves. The House of Peoples passed the Electoral Law quite a long time ago, and we expected that, since it was proposed by emergency procedure, it would be found in the House of Representatives. It wasn't at the last session for the reasons that were said then, but now it's already becoming, here's to not giving grades, but I'm asking the question – why isn't today's session the Election Law that was passed quite long ago in the House of Peoples and whose urgency, at least those who suggested it, speak daily in the media? I don't know why it takes so long for the paper to come down from the fourth floor to the second floor in Parliament. And it would be good for you to inform us in Parliament, as well as the media who keep calling us and asking when it will be. I don't know when it's gonna be, I'm not putting it on the agenda. In addition, today, Mr Bećirović saved the honour of Parliament with two proposed laws, there are other MPs who have suggested that we have agendas. And yet, it is not really the leadership of Parliament's criticism, but it is a request to make another effort, to talk to people in the Council of Ministers who, regardless of their loss of support for this Parliament, are obliged to do their job and to send us laws. If it wasn't for these messengers, I don't know what we'd be discussing today. And every next session, it looks like we're gonna have the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20137	Thank you very much. I'll refer immediately, and I've followed the esteemed representative Magazinović well, to Article 71. – at the beginning of the session of the House, the representative, as well as any authorising officer, shall have the right to request that the optional item be omitted and the new one be proposed with the relevant material in writing. I didn't understand what you were looking for today, whether to fit in or get an explanation? Nikola Lovrinović first, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20138	Good afternoon, everyone. Nice greeting to the chairman, members of the College, colleagues, colleagues and all present in the hall. So, in a way, these two colleagues in front of me who were saying, so to Mr Ahmetović and Magazinović, let's say, in a way, he would replicate. So, when they talk about the implementation of the conclusion that was at the last session, I would just remind them that we respect the Council of Ministers. So, we had at last session of the 7th agenda – Report on activities related to the construction of the Peljega Bridge and the Report on activities to implement the project of the interstate bridge across the Sava River near Svilaj, etc., come on tell me what we brought in this report? We didn't, some of these parts of this point, we didn't consider four, we just reached the Declaration, we didn't adopt this Report, we didn't reject it, we didn't talk about it. So, as much as we respect each other. So come on, let's be straight once and be on the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20139	Thank you. Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20140	So, to your question what I'm asking, I'm looking for an answer to the question – How long has it been since the election law that adopted the House of Peoples by the emergency procedure came in and it would be logical, since it's an emergency procedure and since it's urgent and urgent, that this House also declares itself about it. Adopted on the fourth floor, we on the second, I don't know what the problem is that what was adopted is down two floors and why not put the law of the House of Peoples on the agenda? There, that's the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20141	Thank you very much, we understand each other. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20142	Well, I don't know what you're connecting with my colleague, Lovrinović, what I suggested to the Pelje Bridge. If you follow your views well when it comes to the Peljeski bridge, you have the complete disseminating of two members of the presidency, the total dispersion of Mr. Čović and Izetbegović. When it comes to the Council of Ministers who do not have the support of this Parliament, you have the exact same view that it should sit in the chair and do nothing. That's true. We are merely asking them to take responsibility as mandaters, to tell us that this country, this Parliament and this Council of Ministers will respond to their, their, their commitments, which are one year ahead of us and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20143	Thank you. Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20144	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, ministers, distinguished guests. I thought there was no need to report, but as far as time goes, there is no coordination here at the Council of Ministers – Parliamentary Assembly and Parliamentary Assembly – Presidency and Presidency – Council of Ministers. It's good a year before the elections, I think it's early for a pre-election campaign, that we know what kind of correspondence exists, and that it can be called out of this anything useful for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all know it's impossible to cross-reference, to change relationships, but it's good for the public to know. Every day after holding a session of any home or session of the 5 Presidencies or relations, we have a public service phase. And that's why I think we need things to end, to be clear, not because something crucial is going to happen. And from there I welcome these initiatives that require that the situation be called what it is, and that the situation is not good, that's what the birds on the branch know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20145	Thank you. Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20146	My kolega Ahmetović, therefore, did not talk about the subject, nor did I talk about the state of the presidency, but I spoke about the situation in this House of Parliament. So, I'm the one who listed the agenda point, just remind me of what we brought on that wheel, and tell me what it was called. The Council of Ministers delivered the Report, we didn't want it, you didn't talk about it, you didn't talk about it, you didn't talk about it, you didn't want to hear about it. So, what do we do, tell us what we do, what do you do, what do I do? That's what I'm talking about, so I'm not talking about the presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20147	Thank you. Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20148	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. In fact, it is legitimate, my correction refers to several colleagues who spoke before me, namely, the legitimate requirement is for anyone to vote on the Council of Ministers' trust. However, what happened at last session of the House of Representatives is the introduction of some new principles into this Parliament's democratic practice. Whether it's positive or negative, here's some public assessment, but we're all here to witness that by a very large majority of votes we've chosen this current Council of Ministers, including the chairman along with him. If someone, a known political platform on which this Council of Ministers was elected, if someone has another political goal, another political platform, let them publicly announce it, let them add the signatures that it has a parliamentary majority to achieve this political goal, it is also a legitimate right. But until that happens, I think it's politically... that we vote on anything or that, God Bog, the current chairman of the Council of Ministers collects signatures, see if he has a parliamentary majority. He was elected by the parliamentary majority, therefore, he has a majority. If anyone thinks otherwise, let them prove it. Collect gentlemen's signatures, define a political platform, whether it's faster Euro-Atlantic integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is that, I don't know, getting out of this or that association, if it's anything, but show us or prove that you have a parliamentary majority for that kind of thing, we will respect it. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20149	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20150	I thank the chairman. My Kolega to Lovrinović, since, since my colleague Lovrinović has openly asked what you are doing, what we are all doing, so here, I think it deserves an answer. Here I first propose laws, uh, and, here's Mr. Bećirović Denis, too, we see it on the agenda today. Without that, we wouldn't have any minors on the agenda, and one of these laws, here, which I suggest is that emergency aid and firemen be given priority over vehicles under rotation and that law was brought down yesterday on the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples by the votes of the HDZ. Here, since you asked what we're all doing, here's what I'm doing, what HDZ is doing. I suggest that the ambulance has priority over the rotations, the HDZ knocks it down. And then, what other parties do, and then Mr. Izetbegović and Mr. Čović, whether, HDZ and SDA, sit in rotations, go about 200 meters away, and then agree to support Mr. Zvizdić to stay in that chair where he does nothing. Well, Mr. Lovrinović, I think I've been pretty well summed up by the guy who works.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20151	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20152	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Well, a few colleagues, so I don't know what a surprise it is that one such honest, open, transparent, as it is called, an idea, an initiative, we propose here in the Parament to help this, give the Council of Ministers, Parliament and state institutions to function. I mean, if we sitting here right now are supposed to close our eyes, put our finger in our ear and say that it's all right, we're all carrying some responsibility, and we're not wondering, and we're keeping quiet about it, then it's too much to ask of us. So, Parliament, by a large majority of votes, has made one small concrete step to ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come out here, to this pay phone, and to say that he is thinking of sitting in the position he is in for the next year and what he thinks he can do. If he, for example, goes out for a pay phone and says what he thinks he's doing and the way he wants to do it, maybe there's those twenty and something people who put those signatures before will change their attitude. We just need to know where we are, where we are today. No one here should be a spokeswoman or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, nor, I don't know, anyone else. We expect one, one fair, what is called, a story, one fair approach, one responsibility. So, you as a Parliament, you as a College also have, in that sense, your role to ask that the conclusions that we make here be determined about them. In that sense, someone mentioned that a large majority of these were elected by the Council of Ministers, it should also be heard that it is possible for someone to lose, in a year, a year and a half of their work, say, half of the people. Half the MPs here in the Parliamentary Assembly who gave support to this Council of Ministers two years ago are no longer here. So we're just asking that in this sense, those who have the responsibility to take it, and we know what our role will be, to protect both the Council of Ministers, and the Parliament and the institutions of this state. But the chairman of the Council of Ministers has an obligation to refer and respond to opinions, and to respond to the conclusions that we have made here as Parliament. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20153	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20154	Thank you very much. This is more of a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you, I mean, here we really listen to some barren discussions that have nothing to do with those points of the agenda, as you just read, or to the agenda. We cannot discuss what does or does not do the House of Peoples, nor honor what members of the Bureau ride with rotations. It is their legal right, yet they are the highest institution in this country. If we're going to discuss it, then let's discuss how to, say, some of our colleagues from the House of Peoples who are rank ordinary MPs use rotations and escorts. We know who we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20155	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20156	Thank you, Chairman. I wouldn't characterise anyone's statement as barren or unfounded, but I'd like to make a contribution to this initiative as directed by the Independent Block. In fact, we are witnessing the fact that members of the Bureau in statements and in contacts with the media have repeatedly stressed that there is no parliamentary majority, we are witnessing it. We are witnessing the fact that even some of the members of the College have repeatedly, I am talking about the College of Representatives' House, in public with the view that there is no parliamentary majority. A legitimate initiative, to hear what the chairman of the Council of Ministers says, whether he has signatures or not. I think this initiative is very correct towards getting quality and accurate information whether the Council of Ministers has the support of the House of Representatives or not. We have not been hiding our position on this and since the first day this Council of Ministers has no support from the SNSD Club and, of course, any initiative in terms of the resolution of this Council of Ministers, the SNSD will support it. What happens next I don't know, but today in the country when a member of the Bureau, a member of the House of Representatives' College, says there is no parliamentary majority, when the chairman of the Council of Ministers is silent, it is absolutely politically responsible to ask the Council of Ministers to say so. Let the political parties say so, and let those who have conceived such a council of ministers prove it. Do you know if the Council of Ministers has the majority of you who have proposed this structure of the Council of Ministers along with foreigners? That's why we're asking the chairman to confirm it, whether it's there or not. And we have absolutely no dilemma to say that we do not support this Council of Ministers, but please, when a member of the Bureau or members of the Bureau say that, when the College who runs this House, who has chosen this Council of Ministers, says there is no parliamentary majority, it is quite legitimate and logical to seek the position of the Chair of the Council of Ministers to confirm it in the body and institution that has chosen it. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20157	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20158	Well, first of all, I have an objection to the overall chairmanship of this debate. I really don't know what we're discussing. If anyone thinks we should discuss the trust of the Council of Ministers, make a suggestion. I am ready to discuss the trust of the Council of Ministers immediately today. Obviously no one here will propose, with or without any report, no one will propose to change the Council of Ministers by the end of this term, but we will play this way, pull out. If anyone has a new majority, here I'll support that new majority, here, if there is one, and there isn't, we know there isn't. There is no new majority and no one will propose a new Council of Ministers, but we'll play like this, pull back. Well, it's perfectly normal, colleague Košarac, that you're against the Council of Ministers, so you're the opposition, listen, that you might not be in favour? Which is perfectly normal, as is perfectly normal that I am for, although I am not satisfied with the results, I will always support it, until the end of the term for some other reasons, and above all because I think that our most difficult task is to bring us closer to the European Union and where we are fortunate to be here today, and the position and opposition, we are responsible for that goal and nothing else. Here, let's just put it as a task and push it to the end of the term. This will neither save the Council of Ministers, nor replace the Council of Ministers, as my discussion, Stasha's discussion, Sadikov and any one I've heard here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20159	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20160	We have no problem with the Council of Ministers, I said, there has been no support since the first day and that is quite clear and the SNSD's position is clear to all and we will not change it. But here, I invite all of us here, we talk very often about how important it is to preserve the dignity of the House of Representatives. I believe that most colleagues here in their discussions have talked about it several times and asked that the House of Representatives be respected. We have often heard this from us, the inadmissible chairman, Šefik Džaferović, who cared so much about the dignity of the House of Representatives. Let me ask you something, why are we silent today when the conclusions of the House of Representatives are not respected? Has the House of Representatives reached a conclusion at last session on whether the chairman of the Council of Ministers delivers information about it or not? Are we going to ignore what we did at the last session today? Is this a struggle for the dignity of the House of Representatives? And it was known last night that the chairman of the Council of Ministers would not be in the O.R., as we saw when the information was in the last session, as it all happened, the discussion within 15 minutes, because he had to leave the session due to some other obligations. Is this where the chairman of the Council of Ministers ignores the House of Representatives? Is he playing with the House of Representatives? We said on the first day that he is not credible for us, and ask everyone whether you will allow him to continue to behave like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20161	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20162	I must indeed react and say that I was surprised by this catharsis of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats whose platform was strong Republika Srpska until the night Mektić last. Today we see that they are concerned about the weak institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and are fighting for the strong institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In two days, we experienced a lot of things, giving up last night's referendum, this morning's fight so ghastly, I thought the SNSD would really welcome the weak Council of Ministers, the weak chairmanial council of ministers, the poor work of Parliament, I don't think I know. Until yesterday, until the night before last, what happened in the meantime, was another invitation by Mr. Hojt Jia or something, I don't really know, but anyway, surprise.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20163	Thank you. Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20164	The esteemed chairman, members of the College, esteemed colleagues. I will, first of all, suggest that point 8. The annual report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2016 due to the absence of the president of this institution, we are not considering today. So this point is to withdraw, leave for the next period, because really the situation in the prosecution, in the judiciary, is a certain media step forward, a public step and everything else deserves to have the first man here and get answers to certain dilemmas. So, I'd like to make a business request that this point be postponed today and that we don't discuss it. As for other points and Parliament's conclusion from last session that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is collecting signatures, as we look at Parliament has voted and we do not dispute, however, concerns whether the Council of Ministers has a parliamentary majority, whether the Council has the capacity to continue working this year and the desire to resolve it as quickly as possible is simple. So, gentlemen, who has the parliamentary majority, start the initiative and we'll check it out right now. So why drag the public into Bosnia and Herzegovina, why bring the Council of Ministers into one awkward situation to collect signatures, this or that, we can demonstrate the Council of Ministers here today or not and continue to do so. It would be just like if we MPs sitting here Parliament had voted to conclude that one of us could collect citizens' signatures if he still had the support to sit here. Please, it is clear to the Rules of Procedure how to check whether the government has or does not have any, whether the government has or has no support. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20165	Thank you very much. So, before I give my word to MP Nikola Špirić, there was a reaction due to a technical error, said Staša Košarac for correction...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20166	10 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20167	Okay. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20168	I'll just take a minute. I know that there are today those in this Parliament who say that the National Assembly, so that they can talk about relations in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, but we are at the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Unfortunately, I cannot believe that there is any MP in this House, any party that belongs to the fact that there is no information whether the Council of Ministers has or does not have a parliamentary majority. It's the only task of this House. Everyone outside this House is talking about whether or not there is a parliamentary assembly. What happens when there is or when there is no, whether the Council of Ministers will, by the end of the term of office, perform the function – will, and let it perform that function, but it is quite logical if tomorrow anyone asks you whether the Council of Ministers has a parliamentary majority and that no one from this calls for an argument, a valid argument to say – yes, there is or no. And that's why I think it's in vain for us to step up with one initiative from fellow Ahmetović. So our relationship with this initiative will be to plead. But what is more tragic than the Council of Ministers, that the chairman does not feel the need to be there and that he himself says he feels in a situation if he has or does not have a parliamentary majority. And these exhibitions about the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, I get the feeling of those from the SDS when they come here to ask first – dear Bog, did I come or go. What does the National Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives have to do with it? But people can't beat their hate, and hate isn't an ally of success in Banja Luka, and it's not an ally of success here. So we come here not out of hatred, but out of the need to have the situation under our control and in our hands. Nothing will happen ugly, and if the Council has no parliamentary support, as it will be good to know Is there or isn't. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20169	Representative, counterpart Mladen Bosić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20170	Here, we spent more than half an hour on something we couldn't explain at all what the debate was about. Mr. Špirić, suggest a vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers, I will support it in the agenda. It is a way to see if the Council of Ministers has a majority of MPs against itself or not, and you all know how the parliamentary majority works in the Pre-Trist House, and it has always functioned that way. It is agreed on forming power but when certain points are on the agenda very often we vote, and we have always voted differently in all terms before. It's such a structure and it's the consequence of the Dayton arrangement and all of this, which is specific to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if someone wants to change or determine how much support the Council of Ministers has, here's a suggestion, now you have the right to propose is still in progress to propose the agenda. You can suggest a point, here I am even inclined to support and finish that story. But that has nothing to do with it, there are various forms of support to governments or the councils of ministers or any executive authority. So there are, in the world, minority governments, governments work without a parliamentary majority of the entire mandate. They have governments that function from point to point, as you know it was also the case here with us, and in Republika Srpska, and everywhere in the world it's a normal way of working. So, what is clear to all of us is that there is no new parliamentary majority that will choose a new Council of Ministers, because if there were then 11 would already have signatures here, without any participation by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we would have the signatures of a new assembly majority proposing a new mandate of the Council of Ministers. Since it doesn't exist all these proposals are actually for the purpose of political promotion or political game Here, I invite you, here is Mr Ahmetović, to propose now a vote of no confidence and you will know how many people will vote for it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But just so you know, if this Council of Ministers were to fall, if it were to vote no confidence, you would only put a worse situation because it would be a vacuum, there is no parliamentary majority, parliamentary majority to choose a new Council of Ministers,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20171	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20172	Well, all I want is a colleague of Bosić's to answer. I know what my business opportunities are, he doesn't need to be hatched. So, as far as SNSD is concerned, this Council of Ministers didn't have a majority for us even when...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20173	Please, Your Honor, please refer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20174	Injury to the Rules of Procedure for telling me what I have rightful business, and I know it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20176	Please just want...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20177	Thank you very much, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20178	Just one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20179	I am obliged to warn you, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. All that was just said in replicas, I hope you've all recognized yourself in that, and it's my duty to warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20180	I won't abuse one second. So, the agenda point has been proposed by Mr Ahmetović and we will plead to it. I know that the SDS lacks the support here, even if he is also called Denis Zvizdić, was in the technical mandate of this or that, because they do not know how to behave.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20181	Is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure? 12
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20183	Thank you very much. We've determined that you've abused the Rules of Procedure. So, you didn't call, we didn't see anything about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20184	You see, to me, it's really, as I'd say, awkwardly enough that we're trying so many logical things on each other, what it's called, bypassing some reality, some real facts, trying to shift the thesis. Mr. Bosić, if we wanted this club here, so he wanted to propose a replacement of the Council of Ministers by voting no confidence, we would have done it two months ago. So we've been saying all along that we want to chair, that the Council of Ministers is working, and you keep saying that it's okay that they're not doing anything, that we're coming to sessions like this without any agenda, we're not going to have another session in 40 days, and that we're supposed to keep quiet about it. Well, please don't do that, I mean don't bring us into such a thing as it's called, a position, that one so well-intentioned thing you're trying to twist God's mind that if someone decides to fix the situation and say whether or not he has this parliamentary majority. Who knows if the parliamentary majority after these discussions and after this relationship, as we see it today, will be done tomorrow, but I urge you not to try to defend yourself indefensibly, to come out as chairman of the Council of Ministers and to say what you said. There's practice, there's minority governments, let's say it's minority government, there's practice, we'll ask from session to session, from point to agenda we'll ask for most. And that's the answer for us, but don't just say that we're all equally guilty here, we're equally responsible for being in this situation, and that those who run what's called, institutions without any responsibility sit in these positions, and all of us are putting their incompetence and irresponsibility to lead the country. So I ask that in that sense we have one, as I would say, kind of a more honest relationship. The first step is to hear the man who runs the Council of Ministers where we are today, and the second step will be to seek a new solution. Now, at this point, no one is talking about a vote of no confidence, but we're talking about seeing what he now has as a capacity to run the Council of Ministers and for the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20185	Representative Milica Marković, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20186	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Well, the first is the correction of the wrong quote to all the colleagues who pointed out here today and allegedly said they don't know what they're talking about now when this debate is being held on the agenda and they're pretending they didn't understand or they wouldn't understand. It is clear and evident that what counterpart Ahmetović said, and what he said at the last session, is only about the implementation, that is, respecting the conclusion that this Parliament made at the last session. 13 So that is what we ask to see whether this conclusion will be respected or not respected. Of course, we come to a story about how much we respect the dignity of this House of Representatives ourselves or don't respect it. So don't put the story and the demogogue that this is, that we don't know what they're talking about, you know very well who are defending this, and those who insist on this. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Bosić said today that there are minority governments operating from point to point, like this, comparing it to, among other things, the government of Republika Srpska. The government of Republika Srpska, Mr. Bosić, today has the support of 48 to 56 MPs in the National Assembly of 83 possible. So now you count on what it means, unlike this situation where it's clear that you who voted for this Council of Ministers say that it doesn't have a majority, and we have a year until the election. So, today, of the 18 points of the agenda here, we only have one point, one law that proposes the Council of Ministers. So, we don't accidentally insist on it and here, we can't have the SDS club say that, they're supposed to be surprised how SNSD is now insisting on this kind of agenda point. So we insist, Mrs. Pandurević, because this is what the Council of Ministers says is doing on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina also has Republika Srpska in it. And they're doing nothing, so the results are catastrophic, nothing, and that's why we insist on seeing what people are doing and what they're thinking about doing for another year. If it's a minority council of ministers who have no support, that's what needs to be determined and said here. We're not saying it's not possible to work under these conditions, but... This should be determined. [[the speaker is warned on time]] There's obviously someone running away from that story, and you from SDS are obviously Loaded with it, as soon as there's a story as serious as this one, what SNSD thinks. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Because we continue to represent you with a serious and strong political force ahead of which you feel very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20187	Representative Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20188	Dear Chairman, we are here at the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives and I ask you to respond. We are not at a session of either the Federation Parliament or the Republika Srpska Assembly. And I don't see any more reason for these things to get involved here, I'm gonna intertwine. We're talking about the agenda of the House of Representatives, and discussions and mutual...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20189	Please refer to the article concerning the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20190	I don't know what to call myself, but this is getting degutant. This is what the citizens listen to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20191	Thank you very much. We find that you have abused the Rules of Procedure of this House. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20192	Madam Chairman. So, my correction to the wrong allegation refers to the presentation of a distinguished colleague, Fazlić. So it's completely legitimate, the legitimate conclusion of the Independent bloc, in fact, is no longer the conclusion of the Independent bloc, but the adopted conclusion of this House of Representatives, which requires that the chairman be made known to the signatures whether he has the support of this House. Only at last session when this House also adopted one of the conclusions that Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers, sent a note to the Republic of Croatia, therefore the unbelief of the SDA Club is also based on the fact that they insisted on it, although the Council of Ministers should have made a statement on the proposal and acted. So, no problem at all, it was not a problem to trouble, today it is a problem for the House to adopt this conclusion. If he had any objections that this was an illogical way of collecting signatures or coming to the conclusion whether he had the support of the Council of Ministers, or chairing or not, then this should have been proposed in the course of the debate in terms of correction. The second question that you as a College can resolve in 15 minutes, that any replicas and discussions on this issue may be suspended, so gather SDS, SDA, HDZ signatures from this House, which is elected by the Council of Ministers, whose term of office is given by the BiH Presidency, we will at the same time give up any debate. We will have clear information on how many members of this House, elected by the Council of Ministers, supports the Council of Ministers. And the evidence of what crisis the Council of Ministers is in is based on today's... He's being rescued, the Council of Ministers is saving, and the position and opposition, of the 18 points of the agenda, we're one of the Prime Minister's advances at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20193	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20194	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all, ministers of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I believe that the provisions of Chapter VII which are prescribed by the procedure for confirming the appointment of the Council of Ministers and the vote on non-confidentiality and reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, of Article 150, are violated, as concluded with Article 162. These are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives which regulate the procedure and appointments and alterations of the Council of Ministers or the reconstruction or replacement of a particular minister. I believe that, I do not dispute that last time there was a vote, and I know what we voted for, but I also believe that voting that conclusion is contrary to the provisions of our current Rules of Procedure. We know that there is an impelation, etc., this is not a private matter of this, of the past, or of all future prime ministers. Whoever has been elected chairman, minister, and in this assembly, and in the past, as well as the one in which they will be elected, are not collecting signatures for appointment, but it is exactly the procedure for the election of the Council of Ministers that we know exactly the BiH Presidency's competences on the issue. And I'm asking all of us to stick to it, not to fight needlessly. There has already been a speech, if someone wants to change it has a prescribed procedure and, of course, with a sufficient number of votes when the shift takes responsibility and establishes a procedure for selecting a new Council of Ministers. There, I'm asking you to... Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20195	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've also abused the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure should have applied to that provision concerning debate and replicas, which is a business provision that regulates the request. That's what they would tell me if it were to put the point in the agenda or not, so this remark on the Rules of Procedure was an abuse. Šefik Džaferović, a colleague, deputy, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20196	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I also think that the essence of this issue cannot be discussed through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I have given up the initial announcement regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but can be spoken of in the context of correcting the false allegations or replicas. I work for the public, since we all know perfectly what is really on things, I would like to say that this is the way the Council of Ministers asks questions and this relationship between the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives, which unfortunately adopted the House of Representatives at the last session, is not prescribed by the Council of Ministers Act or the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. The Council of Ministers' Law and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives clearly prescribe procedures and ways of questioning the Council of Ministers by this House. And that's why I'm only going to warn you of the provision of Articles 153, 154, 155 and 156. Rules of Procedure – Initiating a vote on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers. At least eight MPs in the House can initiate a motion for a vote of no confidence or the need for a reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers. The BiH presidency may propose a replacement of the chairmanship of the BiH Council of Ministers. Proposals under Articles (1) and (2) of this Article shall be submitted to the President of the House in writing, signed and reasoned. The House chairman immediately submits this proposal to the BiH presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers, MPs and the House of Peoples. The motion for a vote on non-confidential or reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is necessarily included in the agenda of the House session after 20 days and no later than 30 days from the date of delivery of the BiH Council of Ministers. Prior to the start of the session on the vote of non-trust of the BiH Council of Ministers, the House of Ministers may submit a report in writing with its opinion and views The report shall be submitted to the representatives no later than 48 hours before the session is held. [[the speaker is warned on time]] These are the only possible procedures within which we should behave. It's home, I'm sorry it's been a while, just to say this sentence, we adopted a conclusion that I last warned against the Law and against the Rules of Procedure, but that's the conclusion of the House of Representatives. I think the chairman of the Council of Ministers has no obligation to collect signatures, he should come here for this pay phone and ask this House in what way and according to which provisions of the Law and Rules of Procedure he should behave. And we're obliged to give him that answer. We won't be able to give him another answer except the answer I was just talking about. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20197	Representative Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20198	...to all of us who, I say hello, of course... _________(?) 16 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20199	No, this is a correction, you're right...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20200	Honored ministers and present in the O.R. For all of us in the O.R., it's perfectly clear, unequivocal what it's all about. Here's the fact, gentlemen of the SNSD, that you're showing no power to do what you intend to do, which is to choose a new Council of Ministers. You can't do that, you don't have the capacity, because if you had the capacity to do that, you would. Since you can't do that, you're not powerful, and you are, you're right, you're a colleague of Špirić, it's hard to recognize whether you've come or gone, because sometimes you come to the Parliamentary Assembly and sometimes you come out. When it is necessary to vote fuel collection for the citizens of Republika Srpska, the Federation and Brcko District and a total of Bosnia and Herzegovina then you come to the session and you do not mind that you are chaired by colleaguesŠefik Džaferovi you are naturally committed to coming to the Parliamentary Assembly, after which you are not committed to coming to the Parliamentary Assembly because something else bothers you. I wouldn't say you don't know, I'm sure you know the procedure, and it's quite clear that these procedures need to be followed. It's a miracle how you accuse us of the SDS of the dissatisfaction of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and in public you're saying that we're transferring jurisdiction, that we're traitors, that we're betraying the interests of Republika Srpska, and now you're saying we don't. How can something, uh, happen in terms of this kind of betrayal and that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20201	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20202	As far as you're concerned, you've changed all possible parties, in the end you'll end up in the SDP along with this colleague Bećirović, perhaps, probably Lagumdžija. As far as I know, we were together talking about Milorad Dodik, what you were talking about him, he wouldn't eat a dog with butter, because I couldn't even touch the extent to which you were doing it. So, and you've toughened up against Milorad Dodik, today you're with him, tomorrow you'll be with someone else, Bog knows where you'll end up in political terms, and these throws are really meaningless. And as for you and your political views, they are completely irrelevant to me, but the fact is that you are calling it unargumented. Since my time is up, and I'm a very disciplined MP, I'm still going to break this incorrect quote, and I'll continue when I have the chance. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20203	Thank you, Your Honor. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20204	Thank you. The Honorable Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the media and guests. 17 I believe that it is very unprincipled today to mention the dignity of the House, such a reference came from several SNSD colleagues, cannot be raised by the House, the dignity of the House is called upon by those who blocked or did not attend meetings at the time of Mr Džaferović's chairmanship and thus have violated the Code of Conduct, and in the end the rules set out in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and now their decision not to participate in the commission's work also shows an even greater disregard for the dignity of this House. So they should at least be the ones to warn us of the dignity of the House. One of my colleagues said that Mr. Fazlić and I, I guess, should collect signatures to determine whether there are parliamentary majority or not. I answer to my colleagues, it wasn't our initiative, it was Mr Ahmetović's initiative, so I don't know why one of the colleagues who proposed such a proposal referred to the SDA. All those who feel that they have a parliamentary majority if they have the power to try and let them do so, so that's what fellow predecessors told them, but I don't think such discussions serve an absolute contribution to the work of the House, and I think these discussions are just turning into a cheap pre-election campaign that is absolutely nothing but an advocacy to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20205	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20206	There's no need for us to be read by the Rules of Procedure here, I mean, we sit here and we know the procedures of shifts, and these are completely the opposite of what you've read to us. And how do you know what the intention of the Messengers is, and what does one intend? So, either you're chairing... or psychologists, or parapsychologists. Well, I mean, so you're putting us in a position to read our minds. We want this Parliament and the Council of Ministers to work, we want there to be no corruption and crime in this country, to stop these people from leaving this country. So that's what we want. There's no answer to that question. It's gonna be worse this year. My first request was, very correct, for the chairman to come out and tell us here. You ignored it and the chairman ignored it. That was the first time. The conclusion came out of it, to see if there's a majority here or not. No one has asked the Council of Ministers' shifts here yet, this is where the Council of Ministers' responsibility is raised against the situation we are in, and the situation is such, I repeat, that those who have proposed the chairman, members of the Presidency, say there is no majority, and they have no answer to how to get out of trouble. We're just looking for answers to how to get out of the problem we're in. If you don't have an answer to that, it's irresponsible, irresponsible attitude towards the state. If it is, if it is, if it is to be a practice for a year, if the practice of a year should be unhappiness, if the practice of a year should be to call together a session of Parliament where there is nothing, then you must take responsibility, come out and say there is no majority and we will do nothing next year but we will We'll sit down and wait for next year. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20207	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20208	I thank the chairman. So this is clearly about the information that is necessary and which is delivered in democratic countries means. In some countries, government support is being tested in the budget, but here we also have a question of relations with Parliament. Here, there is no Council of Ministers chairman, he had an obligation to do something until today's session. Did he ask anyone for signatures, did anyone wonder how we got into this situation? We're here because Mr. Zvizdić didn't talk to anyone, he didn't talk to key actors about key laws when they fell here. He threw it away that he didn't want to answer any parliamentary questions, made promises he didn't want to, could or should have fulfilled. And now to remind, by the provisions of the BiH Constitution, although that is what counterpart Ahmetović has already said, the presidency is the one appointed by the new prime minister if this Parliament ever decides to replace the existing one. And then why is Mr. Bosić asking MPs at the House of Representatives to, I quote, propose a new one when it is a clear constitutional obligation of the Presidency, if that happens? Only Mr. Džaferović, too, is the replica. He was indeed selectively quoting the Rules of Procedure, but he proved what I am about to say, because Mr. Džaferović said, I quote again – nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it prescribed that the Council of Ministers can be asked for signatures of support. Indeed, this is not prescribed anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, but for these and such reasons, there is a Article 187. The Rules of Procedure which literally says – The House can, in conclusion, regulate a particular question which is not at all or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure. And that's exactly what dom did at the last session, Mr. Džaferović, regulated his conclusion that, as you said, it was not regulated by the existing Rules of Procedure. And attitude (2) of the same member – the conclusion is binding on a specific... attitude (1) And attitude (3) the conclusion is binding [[the speaker is warned on time]] until the Rules of Procedure is given a different question. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that's why you're going to have this from session to session, until we sort it out differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20209	Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20210	Mr. Bojić, without any need, dragged us into this, into this fight with Mr. Špirić, and I have to react to it. It is not disputed that Mr Špirić is one of the people who has changed several political parties and in that part is what you said and there is a possibility that if he changed his political uniform, if he moved to a political party, he could say that he had returned. But I don't know why you're talking about us in this context, and I don't know why you're trying to get others involved in your fight, whether you're feeling inferior to Mr. Špirić, so you need help, I don't know, but I'm asking you to stop at least in this case, because we could start talking about your political engagement at the time of Communism, they say you were a good Kumrov student. But I'm gonna stop here and invite you to stop too so we don't move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20211	Representative Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20212	Thank you. I expected my colleague Bećirović, so yes, and since I won't have any more opportunities, I was talking about the ideological profile of Nikola Špirić, who is difficult to recognize, because this ideological profile is a miracle. First of all, it is a radical that carried a one-foot-a-meter-long cobbler and an entire monograph of the Serbian Radical Party, half of which is dedicated to Nikola Špirić. After that, I remember Nikola Špirić, and together with him we ran a campaign when it came to Milorad Dodik, where we had something to say about Milorad Dodik. I am still saying what I was saying today about Milorad Dodik, and Nikola Špirić, what he says about Milorad Dodik, the general public in Republika Srpska knows that. So, that kind of ideological profile is invisible on the political scene, and that would not surprise me at all if Nikola Špirić were to meet you tomorrow, with Lagumdžija and such. So it's this kind of political profile, you just can't recognize where it's going to be. Most of the time, one thing you know, he likes to be in the ruling party, it's about some political profile that I might recognize in Nikola Špirić, and this is a miracle, when it comes to Nikola Špirić, where it's all found and what kind of ideological profile it is. So, in that sense, I mentioned your political party and I wouldn't be surprised if it were in company with Lagumdžija, Bećirović, with you, and as far as my political past is concerned, it's quite clear. Yes, I did, I was a member of the Alliance of Communists, it is true that I was in Kumrovec and it is nothing controversial, and since the establishment of the Serbian Democratic Party I am in the Serbian Democratic Party and I will stay in it until as long as it is necessary, and it will last for many summers, I assure you, because that is simply how things stand when it comes to the Serbian Democratic Party, and in this sense you will have my political views that are absolutely clear and have not been changed unlike what Nikola Špirić did. He does it when he leaves here, so as soon as he comes down to the door, he's already got another kind of political attitude, you just can't tell which direction he's going to go tomorrow, whether he's going to take a six-foot squire, or he's going to put a five-point, or he's got a sickle and a hammer in his little brain that he's kept from earlier, which he might take back, I don't know, you have to ask him.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20213	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20214	I really had no intention of saying anything about the debate on the agenda, but here, with nothing caused, counterpart Bojić still called out MPs and people from the SDP. I thought, while he's doing it, that my colleague Bojić would at least find some topic and some area where he can score, and he's just decided to discuss with the SDP on the subject where he's the tiniest. Therefore, given that your colleague does not have the right to re-replicate, I will be both shorter and lighter than I would normally be in response, but fellow Bojić, you are not at all politically wise to enter with any political party in this House on the subject of former presidents, because if I were to tell you now who your former founders are, you know how far they would have come. Well, we better stop there, not to play in that field, and you, if you don't already have a serious cause, don't mention those you shouldn't mention.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20215	Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20216	Oh, I wouldn't, but, uh, I have to, given that we're a school together, dear fellow Bojić and I, to say that I understand his frustrations with Mr Špirić. I was when I decided on his transition to SNSD, there were different opinions, but I have to say it was a brilliant shot, we've been winning ever since. I believe that you, Mr. Bojić, are pressuring Mr. Špirić to even come to you again, because that's the only way to win, but I'm sure there's no way he can cross over to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20217	Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20218	Thank you very much. I have a partial correction to the false allegations of a respected and respected colleague of Arnaut, but not in a way that he understands that I am defending my colleague, Šefik, and I respect him as well as all my colleagues and colleagues in Parliament. The esteemed and respected colleague Arnaut said, therefore, I am correcting the wrong quote because of the Rules of Procedure and the way I see it, I experience and apply it, not because of what he was saying, in relation to other colleagues. Dear fellow Arnaut called and read Article 187 which undisputedly states that the House of Representatives can, therefore, regulate a certain issue of conclusion in a situation where it is not or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure and in that part I am not correcting the quote of fellow Arnaut, that is absolutely correct and that if we were to look at it, one member, and we applied it to the conclusion of the last session which was voted as voted, probably a colleague would be right. I believe he is wrong because the issue of appointment and resolution of the Council of Ministers is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure, in Chapter VII, of the members of 150, and in conclusion with Article 162. So, we have a prescribed procedure, and now if it's not enough, here, it's not precise, and me and my respected colleague Arnaut, and there are other colleagues and colleagues and from the House of Representatives, and the House of Peoples, we're in one of the Interim Commissions for Making and Supplementing Rules, we've written to all MPs and delegates to make their remarks. Here, I call on us, if this question is not completely resolved that at one of the next sessions, and if I am not mistaken, tomorrow there is one such session scheduled, to join forces together and possibly complement this issue. Of course, if the predstavnički of Representatives appreciates it, when it comes as a suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20219	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20220	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I welcome both you and your colleagues, as well as everyone present in this hall. I ask all present to be classified as a item of the agenda – Commission's election report for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education Accreditation Agency, because the material should come this minute, to be shared. We ended it late last night, but I ask for the memo we received from the Agency, as well as from the auditors, in fact, that this choice is important for the functioning of the Agency, and that if we wait for the next session, which is October 25th, it is more than 21 than a month, so that we can further deepen these problems that have been recorded in the memo from the Agency's director. I ask the House to plead and, on the basis of Article 71, to accept this proposal to supplement the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20221	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20222	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here's what I'm saying is, this correction of an incorrect quote killed us, and I like to use that term - incorrect, but guilty. Well, I've been waiting a long time, along with my colleagues, to take my word for it, and I'd like to do it in the next Rules of Procedure, to sort of eliminate that correction, because a lot of people abuse it. Eh, what I want to say in my discussion is that in view of the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, on the request of the College to attend the Annual Report of the High Court Prosecutor's Council and Mr Milan Tegeltija, I support this proposal by Mr Fazlić, but what is business, it seems to me, we can't take off the binding act, but we can't discuss it. And I suggest to the College that this space we have from today to the next session, and it is quite long, uh, in consultation with the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, maybe provide one thematic session, so, yes, or just a session on that agenda point to discuss, given everything that is a problem in the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20223	Representative Nikola Špirić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20224	Madam Chairman, I've been thinking whether it makes sense or not, given this... let me say a few sentences. So, I still think it's perfectly legal and legitimate for the MP in this assembly to propose a item on the agenda, and that the extent of voting between us all here depends on whether it will be completed or not. But I would like to ask my colleague Bojić what his policy today is in relation to the policy led by Radovan Karadžić, the president of the SDS? Is that the same Bojić then, or is that some other Bojić? Is this even about the same man? Nikola Špirić's politics are about election results. Go through...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20225	Please, Your Honor, let us stick to the Rules of Procedure, we are under discussion on the agenda, to suggest a new or download one of the points.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20226	I'm going, I'm going, of course. No, no, about this agenda point, I'm begging you, I won't, I won't be long. So, my political work is about election results in the next(?) Five, six, seven choices. Regardless of what Mr Bojić was talking about, Nikola Špirić had the best 22 electoral results from all of Dejton's parliamentarians here, except for the last elections where only Mr Bosić had more votes. I had more votes alone in the last elections than the Club of MPs of the Serbian Democratic Party in this House. And I must say, if the Serbian Democratic Party's policy today has come down to the fact that the only policy pillar of Denis Zvizdić's policy that does not have a parliamentary majority or Bakir Izetbegović who does not favor Republika Srpska, then I must say that it is time for him to see that the emperor is naked, and that the shorts do not cover his back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20227	Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20228	Dear Chairman, I really ask you to take care and sanction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure here Members of Parliament who use an inappropriate dictionary, inappropriately this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20229	Thank you. I find that I have warned my representative of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and what else can I do? I hope you all recognize yourself in these things that are highlighted today when it comes to injuries. Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20230	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll try to be brief. I suggest that the agenda points that we are only discussing here in vain, we are talking about, and then we neither adopt them, nor can we bring anything concrete, such as this – the report of the High Court Prosecutor's Council, are no longer coming and that you do not put them on the agenda, because we are talking about them, and our influence or our official views mean nothing, they put one big X through them, or they cross. Also, I suggest you consider proposing gentlemen, and I am here, working on amending the Rules of Procedure to introduce the phone sessions of this House, because basically we are just wavers, raisers of hands, verification of decisions, confirmation, granting consent, granting consent, giving consent, and that is what our work finally comes down to. And let him ask himself who is obliged to prepare legislation to promote it, to make suggestions why we only turn into people who need to adopt something that is already done. And in the end, let me, no matter what you say to me, is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would recommend that my colleagues read the memoar of Vinstona čerčiti for the simple reason that it will be there that eleven times in his life he changed the political option. As an 18-year-old, he thought in one way, when he finished...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20231	Dear Representative, please act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and suggest either a new item of the agenda or a download of the agenda. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20232	And I suggest, and according to what I'm saying is Vinston, and I suggest, according to what I'm going to say, that Vinston Čerčil changed the political option eleven times, like... I'm going to propose, 18 years old, when he finished studying the second, when he married the third, when he got the fourth kids, when the kids finished school on the fifth, when the kids were left on sixth and so on, and he's one of the most significant historical figures. I suggest that the Justice Department conduct an analysis of Vinston Čerčil's memoirs and deliver it to us as a part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20233	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20234	Thank you very much. I will comment on two proposals from distinguished colleagues. One is to get off the agenda point – Report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Since I am the proposer of this Conclusion on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which the Constitutional Commission supported, I believe that the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and without the presence of Mr Tegeltija, or the President, does not make any sense. In the end, it was also a request at the Commission's session, but we agreed to complete this commission phase without it, given that there was a representative of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The second proposal, uh, here, the other proposals here, hasn't been practical. I must say that I am truly as a man disgusted by the debate that was being held, because we have come from Sadik Ahmetović and come to Vinston Čerčil, and in principle with some empty story that we all know in advance that no citizen of this country will particularly cheer up, and not particularly sad because with what he has heard in this House, no one can be saddened anymore, but also nothing to cheer up about. And I'm not sure that because of these discussions of ours, any citizen standing in line in front of some embassy is going to get out of that line.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20235	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20236	I thank the chairman. So the Rules of Procedure are very clear. During this item, or debate on the agenda, the MP may request the execution of the item, quoting the Rules of Procedure – or removing the optional point. You have reacted on several occasions, but I cannot escape the impression that you acted when Mr. Backović violated that provision without having responded when Mr. Novaković was even much rougher and much longer in breach of that provision. I really insist on consistent respect for the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20237	Thank you very much. As for the reaction of the Rules of Procedure's injuries, it applies to all MPs, in a few times at today's session, we warned it. As for counterpart Novaković, he expressed his position through his announcement that he also supports the removal of the agenda point when it comes to the VSTV, and all the other debate and discussion that was, as regards abuse, also applies to Mr Novaković, as well as to all MPs. Here, my colleague checked out. At this point, we no longer have reports, we conclude a debate on this agenda point. We go to the answers, or attitudes of the House according to specific suggestions. The first Sadik Ahmetović reported on the agenda proposal for discussion. His proposal is – Information from the College and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers on the conclusion adopted at the previous session, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Council of Ministers Chairman Denis Zvizdić, to collect by the next session the signatures of MPs whose support is in his work so that a position on the status of the Council of Ministers can be adopted in the coming period." I would like to inform you in front of the College that the College does not have any special authority to act on certain conclusions, other than the business provision, that those conclusions made by this House are forwarded in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the one to whom it refers, not entering, means, in any way, in what the conclusions were discussed, and so on this time. So all the conclusions made at this session are neatly forwarded as this conclusion. For the other we don't see, we don't have any reason or material to include a new item on the agenda. Furthermore, we have a proposal, in fact, it was a finding, which we removed in the debate of colleagues, representatives of Saša Magazinović, why the Electoral Law is not on the agenda. We just want you, as with all other points, when business opportunities are fulfilled, this and all other points will be mandatory points of one of the next sessions. As for counterpart Amir Fazlić, he suggested, although I listened carefully to the discussion and you said in the debate, you asked to postpone the agenda until the chairman was present, so, the VSTV. However, here in the proposal you put the motion to download point 8. BiH's 2016 VSTV Annual Report I am obliged, too, to say that according to the Rules of Procedure this point is a mandatory point and in terms of presence, we today have a registered presence by the representatives of the VSTV. We don't have any reason to take this place down on business. I would therefore warn all MPs that this item should remain on the agenda, and that when we get to that point, we should postpone or fail the debate. In this context they discussed, in a way, and certain MPs, so I will now, I don't know, and Mr. Salko Sokolovićć and in some ways Zaim Backović, and Momčilo Novaković, so, here's to not particularly refer to myself, I think this is acceptable, is it, okay. And as far as Mirsad Đonlagić, an agent, is concerned, asks to be included in today's agenda, means, the report of the Interim Joint Commission for the selection of three members of the Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. I propose that, on the basis of Article 71, the report of this Interim Joint Committee be included in the agenda. You got the report, so we have all the assumptions and at this point we can vote. _________(?) 25 [[no microphone turned on]] Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20239	I thank the chairman. I referirati specifically to Article 71 and Article 72. Rules of Procedure. Article 71(1) makes it very clear that at the beginning of the sitting, the MP, as well as any authorised promoter, has the right to request the abandonment of the optional and to propose a new one with the relevant material in writing. A colleague, Sadik Ahmetović, is an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20241	He proposed a new agenda item and delivered the relevant material in writing. These are three undeniable, three undeniable conditions and all three, all these three conditions are also undeniable. Article 72 The Rules of Procedure then make it very clear – in the event that the proposed amendments to the agenda and after MPs make their views on the proposal, the House of Votes on each proposed amendment. And in this article we have three conditions, in case the amendments are proposed, after MPs make their views known, to the House on any changes in vote. And all these three conditions are here, too, undeniably met. The amendments were proposed, the debate took place, and now we just need to move on to the vote. If you, like the College or you chair, refuse to put it to the vote, it is more than clear that the team will violate members 71 and 72. The Rules of Procedure shall also question the responsibility of the Colleges for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20242	Thank you very much. Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20243	Well... what Mr. Arnaut said, therefore, is the same member, but I urge you to put to the vote what I have suggested, don't bring, uh, don't put this Parliament into an even bigger crisis. You only hereby confirm that there is no majority of you here and therefore you are bringing this Parliament into an even greater crisis and taking responsibility for it. What if there is a step to go out and wait for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come here and yes, will this be possible for Parliament to continue? I invite you to put this to a vote, don't put this House in crisis, you have to take responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20244	Thank you very much. Representative Maja Gasal-Važalica-Vaca, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MPs. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20245	I thank the chairman. I will also, as well as my colleague Arnaut, call on Articles 71 and 72, but also remind you as chairman, at the last session, or you will this way, if you do not put what the Club of SDA asked for, that is, that point 8 should be removed from the agenda because we do not have authorized promoters, unless Mr. Tegeltiija as president could not come, he has his two deputies. And if you remember at last session, Mr. Mektić, the minister of security, was not present, nor was his deputy present, where we, referring to these two members, removed that point, but was someone from the ministry, or Mrs. Džaferović from the Ministry of Security, and we all agreed, that is, to vote to remove that point because there is no mandated promoter. In this way, if you now introduce this practice, that because of the lack of authorised proposings you do not put this to a vote, you are introducing a new practice. This is an unfair treatment of members and members of the Council of Ministers and one respect for those who do not respect this most legislative body.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20246	Thank you very much. After all these discussions, everything the MPs ask for will be at your polls, and you take care of the dignity of this House. So I would like to refer to myself, as regards the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the College and as chairman. So there are no assumptions that this point of Mr Sadik Ahmetović would be on the agenda, as it is said in Article 71. – at the beginning of the session of the House of Representatives as well as any authorising officer shall have the right to request that the optional item be omitted and the proposal of a new one with the relevant material in writing. I, as chairman, do not have any written material on this point at this moment, and I have made it clear as to the information on the work of the College according to the Rules of Procedure. Also, the agenda item – Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I find we do not have the opportunity to take it off the agenda because it is a mandatory item of the agenda. But the fact that you want this House dignity to be the way the House of Representatives wants it to be, I, as chairman, am giving these points the order to plead. Who is to include the point in the agenda of this session today: Information from the College and the Chair of the Council of Ministers on the conclusion adopted at the previous session, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić to gather by the next session the signatures of MPs whose support is in his work, so that a position on the status of the Council of Ministers can be adopted in the next period"? Please let us be clear about this agenda item. Please repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – for 21, against 17, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH – 14 for, 10 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska 7 for, 7 against, no abstentions. In addition to the general energy majority, I find that we have placed this item of the agenda in today's session of the House. Of course, I ask the services to position this in the agenda in accordance with the order of these points. 27 We move on to Mr. Fazlić's proposal, a proposal to download point 8. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2016 Please make a statement. Of the 40 present – for 28, against 6 abstentions 6. The Federation of BiH – 17 for, 5 against, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 11 for, 1 against and 2 abstentions. In addition to the general and entity majority, we find that we have withdrawn item 8 from today's session of the agenda, which is: The Annual Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2016. I'm giving a break now of 10 minutes, we have, excuse me, excuse me, another report. We need to make a statement on the agenda: Proposal for a ranking of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency from the Interim Joint Commission to plead. Of the 40 present – for 25, against 6 abstentions 9. The Federation of BiH – 18 for, no objection, 8 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 7 for, 6 against, 1 abstention. In addition to the general and entity majority, I find that in today's agenda we also included the Report on the establishment of a proposal for a list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. I ask the service to prepare us a agenda for the next 10 minutes to proceed with the session. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. Dear MPs and MPs continue with the House session. Before I read the agenda of today's House sessions, I would like to conclude, in front of the College, that, contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, for the first time, we have removed the mandatory point, and this is the Report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, as the House, to insisting on certain MPs, has made its statement. We will respect the House's position so that the adopted agenda of the 52nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH looks like this. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Representative Borislav Bojić's request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1- 2209/17, of 13.09.2017; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1610/17 of 04.07.2017. (second reading), shortened procedure; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1074/17, of 21/04.2017. (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-11503/17, of 15.06.2017. (first reading), 28 7. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Law No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017. (First Reading); 8 / 8 Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, of 12.05.2017; 9. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I propose mandatory inclusion in the agenda of the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Assembly of Points: Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest, guaranteed prices and safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH, and a proposal for a response to this initiative", issue: 01-50-1-1623/17, of 05.07.2017; 10. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-686-6,1/17, of 20.09.2017; 11. The information from the BiH Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the conclusion adopted at the previous session reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH Denis Zvizdić to collect by the next session the signatures of representatives whose support is in his work, so that a position on the status of the Council of Ministers of BiH can be adopted in the next period" – Proposer of point: Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-50-1-15-52/17, of 20.09.2017; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 4. to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 21 December 2005 in Sarajevo and 28.12.2005 in Luxembourg (the Finance Treaty) – Railways in BiH (FI 23.376), issue: 01.02-05-2-2082/17, of 24.08.2017; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Investment Grant Agreement (Corridor Vc, Building of the Svilaj-Odzak Road Stock) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-2114/17, since 28.08.2017; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the Measurement of Tonnage of Ships of 1969 (London 23.06.1969).) number: 01,02-05-2-2115/17, of 28.08.2017; 15. Approving the ratification of the amendment of the Global Fund for the Environment Agreement (Project I of the reduction of the environmental pollution of the Adriatic Sea) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the function of the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund (GEF Grant No. TF017727), number: 01,02-05-2-2116/17, of 28.08.2017; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No. 1 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, the European Investment Bank and the JP Highways of Republika Srpska on 12.12.2013 in Sarajevo (the Finance Treaty) for the project "Banja Luka – Doboj" (Fi 82.135 –
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20249	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. So, a little bit of what you said, uh, the first time, there's never been a mandatory agenda. Here I will remind you two sessions ago, this is necessary for the sake of the minutes, two sessions ago you three agreed to put on the vote to take down the draft law of colleague Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, which was a mandatory item of the agenda just because it was proposed by MP Novaković. So you've established, as a college, a precedent, that was the mandatory agenda point at the time, you know very well that it shouldn't have been taken off, put on a vote, and so it's taken off. So when something was before two sessions you definitely can't say – never before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20250	Thank you very much. We stay with the comments we made in the introduction when it comes to the agenda and the Rules of Procedure. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on answers received to parliamentary questions This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing were asked by representatives: Senad Šepić addressed the initiative and the question to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Federation of BiH; Denis Bećirović referred the initiative to the College of the House; Safer Demirović asked the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH. The following answers were submitted to today's session: to the question of Representative Mirsad Mešić, who was asked in writing at 49th and 50th session by the Council of Ministers of BiH; to the question of Damir Arnaut, which was asked in writing at the 51st session, the answer was delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Central Election Commission; to the question of Saša Magazinović, which was asked in writing at the 48th session, the answer was delivered by the Central Bank of BiH; to the 30th question of Zaim Backović, which was asked in oral form at the 51st session, the Council of Ministers of BiH forwarded an answer to the foreign ministry; to the question by Monika Tomić, who was asked in writing at the 49th session, the answer was delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers. Does anyone want to comment on the answer? Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20252	Thank you. Here, only forms work, so I am announcing an additional parliamentary question to the Central Election Commission, because I am not completely satisfied with their answer. Also an additional parliamentary question to the secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly, because I received an absolutely vague answer which the secretary had just forwarded from the secretary of the House of Representatives where I sought clarification that a member of the College voted when it was an agreement on the Law that emergency aid had priority over rotations. And then I am told that the members of the College do not plead either for or against the procedure, but they declare whether there is consent or not. Now I don't know how that, I'd really like that, it's a constitutional category, to demystify that process, so it's prescribed by the Constitution to bring it into line with the members of the College. Who goes first and when the first one goes how can the first one know if he has consent or not? So, how can you, for example? counterpart Džaferović says he has consent, and then Bosić says he has no consent? I really don't understand why you're running away here so I can get an answer – which of the three members of the College, fulfilling the constitutional obligation to carry out the alignment, voted on the matter of ambulances having priority over vehicles under rotation or not. And then I'll keep insisting until I get that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20253	Thank you. Representative Monika Tomić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20254	I welcome all present. My question was to the Ministry of Civil Affairs – what you did in particular in 2016 and 2017 for the purpose of timely provision of services and preventing the social exclusion of children's families at risk of poverty. I must admit that I am very dissatisfied with the answer that I received, which is very, very shrub, but I have also read and looked through some entity reports and I regretfully conclude that very little has been done in this period for the most vulnerable and important population in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20255	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20256	Thank you. 31 Not that I'm unsatisfactory, but I can't understand that someone answers a question like this in this way. I know the Ministry participates in what it organizes, but I didn't ask for what it organizes, I asked for what happens. You have the latest example last night, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is visiting the official one, according to the media, only one entity. If that's what it means, does it mean that through this country, it can panic anyone who wants and how it wants? Please, I asked the question there, not only the foreign ministry, but also those in charge of foreign policy, which is the BiH Presidency as well as the entire Council of Ministers, to answer what I asked, not what I didn't ask. I know exactly what the Ministry's jurisdiction is, but I also know that nowhere in the world is this. Try to make any minister from the Council of Ministers go to any part of Serbia and strut there as a representative of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina without the knowledge of the Serbian authorities, or in Croatia, or Montenegro, or Hungary, or, I don't know, Bulgaria, in Great Britain, anywhere. What does this mean, is this EL Dorado this country, that politics is led by someone who has no touch with this country? I'm asking you to answer me correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20257	Thank you very much. I don't see any more comments. We're closing this agenda. Before we move to point 3, in accordance with the provisions of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, points 1, or (1), of points (f), shall restrict the duration of the debate on all matters, in all points of the agenda to 5 minutes. Let's go to point three, Ad. 3. Representative Bojić Borislav's request for an examination of the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No. 01-02-1-2209/17, of 13.09.2017. On 19 September 2017, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm opening a debate on the procedure, so emergency procedures on this bill. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20259	I thank the chairman. Therefore, Article 133 (1) makes it very clear that an emergency procedure is possible only if the law of a high degree of urgency or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely. There is definitely no high level of urgency here because, I remind you, about a year ago, we had a more or less identical bill. And here, to be clear, it's about trying to raise the salary to a category of civil servants. When the second condition is that it is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected completely, the simple way does not mean that there are only one or two members. So the simplicity of the formulation of a regulation cannot definitely be measured in the number of its members. 32 Sometimes a regulation with 5 or 10 proposed members can be much simpler than rules like that where only changes are changed, where only two members of the existing law are changed. Namely, here, this is definitely a matter that requires obtaining the opinion of the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Finance, etc. What also requires the opinion of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance itself, is the fact that, in its explanation, the legislator of the Law, although he says from point 2 above, to raise salaries to certain civil servants in order to be in line with the salaries of some other civil servants, under point 5, the Proposer says – realisation will not require additional funds in the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then becomes unclear where these funds will come from, because if you raise salaries...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20260	I'm warning the honourable representative that he's sticking to the agenda. We are discussing the urgency of the procedure of this Law, and when we open the debate on content, then you can present everything that is important to this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20261	I'm very well aware of the proceedings of the chairman and I'm saying...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20262	I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20263	The Chairman, if you wish to settle with me, then the Rules of Procedure prescribes that you go up to the pay phone and give the word to the deputy. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20264	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20265	So I'm talking about the simplicity of the rules. So, the Rules of Procedure say that the second, the urgency does not exist, I have already explained, now I explain that there is no, that no other business provision is satisfied, so it is not a law that is formulated in a simple way that can be adopted without a commission phase. That's what I'm talking about. So we can't argue here that it's a law that's simple when it's part of the bill's proposal, a mandatory part of the bill's proposal is its explanation, and that argument is not simple if it says that financial resources are not needed in one position, and in the other position it says that the payments are raised. So we can't talk about simple formulations. That's what I was talking about, and I'm really surprised that you don't let me finish the sentence before you warn me about the business order, and I made it very clear, we found it not urgent, now I'm talking about whether it's simple or not. So, I'm only talking about the need, or the existence of business conditions, to implement an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20266	Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20267	...of a completely simple procedure, of equating a person who does the same job to have the same receipts. My colleague Arnaut understands that very well and is trying to complicate it. There's no need for complexity, it's a very simple formulation. For these reasons, procedures may be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20268	Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20269	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, I suggest that this House abolish the Rules of Procedure and, before every agenda point, explain it to us by Mr. Damir Arnaut, a colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20270	Thank you very much. Shall we put it to a vote? I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We are voting on an emergency procedure request when it comes to the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20271	Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20272	Please repeat the vote. Of the 40 present – 13 for, 17 against, 10 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 13 against, 7 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 7 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the emergency procedure of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since we have not adopted an emergency, we approach the short-term vote in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure. Of the 39 present – 13 for, 18 against, 8 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, 13 against, 6 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 7 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. There's no general majority. I also find that we have not adopted a brief procedure when it comes to considering the draft law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 34 Since we have not adopted even a shortened procedure, this bill will be considered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure according to the basic legislative procedure. We're crossing point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1610/17 of 04.07.2017. (second reading), shortened procedure The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 50th session of the House, held on 26.07.2017. The draft law was removed from the agenda last session of the House at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Constitutional Commission submitted its Report 19.09.2017. The commission adopted the bill and proposed to the House of Representatives its adoption. I'm opening a debate. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1074/17, of 21/04.2017. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20275	Thank you. At the beginning of the debate, I must point out that this proposal to amend Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, which provides for a ban on candidateing war criminals in elections and their appointment to public office, has already passed the Law beyond expectations. Namely, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives supported this Law. I believe that today there will be a general majority in the House of Representatives for this Law, in the end I believe that this law today, due to entity voting, will not even be brought down at this House session. Some, truth be told, they didn't have to propose a law like this, because it was supposed to be negotiated first. I must say as an opposition MP that no one is defending the current Council of Ministers of BiH and others to resolve this issue. The bottom line is that we already have one practical problem, so we have a problem in practice. It is therefore necessary to find a solution. One of the solutions is the adoption of this bill today. 35 I must say that this issue of banning war criminals from the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only a legal issue, it is a moral and civilization issue, it is a test for all of us in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am sorry that the BiH Council of Ministers has not offered some solution to this problem. I must say, I'm also probably as much as most of them here, unpleasantly surprised that in April of this year, the Council of Ministers, instead of a ban on running war criminals, has appeared on the agenda of the Council of Ministers a bill that even predicts pardoning persons convicted of genocide and war crimes. That's certainly not a good message. So I do not believe that it is the interest of any citizen and any people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be represented in the democratic election process by the convicted war criminals. I have to say, it was probably the Dayton Constitutionman who couldn't spot it at the time, but it's clear that this is a direct blow to the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement as probably an essential part of the complete Dayton Peace Agreement. It is impossible to return people to their hearths in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to allow people who have been convicted as war criminals to be candidates in the elections. It's just that these two things aren't compatible. The next thing I want to point out is that the ban on running war criminals is European value. The Hague process is nothing but, in a way, an attempt to establish for the former Yugoslavia what was established in the Ninber process after World War II. I also remind you, hundreds of thousands of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Srbin, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak and others, do not have passive voting rights. So Srbin in the Federation of BiH cannot run for the BiH presidency and the House of Peoples. That right in the Republika Srpska entity does not have Bošnjak and Hrvat. Those who are treated as ostali in the Constitution, and I think it is an unfair term for these people, they do not have the right to do so in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So hundreds of thousands of people don't have that active, or passive electoral right, and here it becomes a problem that hundreds of rightfully convicted war criminals would be left without that right. I don't think that's a good message. It's not a good message for the future. I will navešću an example, that a humanist like Bogić Bogičević cannot run for the presidency, but that, in the current state, for example, a convicted war criminal named Momčilo Krajišnik has the right to do so. Well, it's not normal for a colleague of Magazinović sitting here next to me not to be able to run for the BiH presidency or the People's House. And such examples in all the nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina have mass. So we just have to change these things. To solve this questions, and with that I'll end up, there are two options. [[the speaker is warned on time]] The first is to adopt this Law today, send a clear message, the second, if at this and next session we are unable to adopt this publicly I call on the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina to wake up from political hibernation and to stop this dangerous violation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement. I had more to say. But you've shortened the debate. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20276	Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20277	I thank the Honorable Chairman. 36 During the discussion at the 48th session of this House, when we discussed the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on these proposed amendments to the Electoral Law, I expressed my support and stressed the need to adopt the proposed complements in order to prevent absurd situations which, unfortunately, are already happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that convicted war criminals be candidates and, which is devastating, be elected to very important functions in this country. I was then quoted, and today I will remind, for example, of the local elections last year where the candidate for the municipal chief of the Great Cladusa was convicted war criminal Fikret Abdić and what is very devastating for this country, such a candidate was also elected head of the municipality. A candidate who was ruled that during the war situation in the Republic of BiH, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of BiH, had made the so-called declaration. Autonomous province of Western Bosnia for the area of the former Bihac District. A candidate who was also president of the anti-constitutional establishment and commander-in-chief of the military, so-called People's defenses of that anti-constitutional Autonomous province. The candidate who ordered, planned and organized the establishment of camps and constituency centres in the Municipality of Velika Klajuda in order to close civilians who opposed the establishment of the so-called Autonomous provinces of Western Bosnia. In these camps, I remind you, and the assembly centers, all prisoners were treated inhumanely and forced into service in his militia. During the wartime, the candidate, the current head of the Municipality of Velika Kladusa, Fikret Adbić, has imprisoned more than 5,000 ancient civilians in his camps from 14 to 75 years of age where children were up to 14 years old. Women are imprisoned and abused regardless of age. In the camps of Fikret Abdić, Chief of the Great Kladuma, imprisoned civilians were physically and mentally abused, beaten, tortured, and, as it says in the judgment of the Mayor's Court in Karlovac, their legs were usually beaten with military boots, fists, police bats, various wooden objects and rifles. They are forced to stand in the water in front of camprooms during a winter period without shoes, to fight each other, to sing and shout passwords that are glorified so-called. Autonomous province of Western Bosnia and Herzegovina Grandma of the Great Claudius. War criminal Fikret Abdić is today the head of the Municipality of Velika Kladhua, who, performing this very important function for the local community, reminds a large number of citizens of Velika Kladu and the Unzo-San canton of the crimes he has ordered. His choice and titles of these functions unfortunately restored the restlessness and uncertainty in the homes of all citizens and their families who had passed the naked and unseen abuses in camps whose initiator, founder and employer. The question arises: Is it fair and has it had to, and does it contribute to reconciliation, trust, peace and stability to encourage war criminals in this way? That their crimes should be neglected, and that, after the war crimes were committed, the punishment committed, which unfortunately is often symbolic in relation to the extent of the crime committed, continue their political and any other action as if nothing had happened? All of this is sufficient reason to conclude, on this example, that it is entirely justified, for historical reasons and the history of war, to limit passive voting rights for all such examples in Bosnia and Herzegovina that could possibly appear, and thus eliminate any future situations where convicted war criminals would act most in this country, in which they committed crimes and counter-constitutional actions. I have taken the obligation to remind this House of a letter from the Grand Claudius Camping Association that they have delivered to all clubs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and on this agenda point. They stated in the letter – Dear gentlemen, on behalf of the victims, we ask your support for amendments to the electoral law because it is absurd that war criminals who have committed war crimes against the citizens of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina are elected to political functions We ask you to support changes to BiH Election Law [[the speaker is warned on time]] In order to prohibit participation [[the speaker is warned on time]] convicted war criminals in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20278	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20279	I thank the chairman. You acted in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure, position (1) point (f) which gives you the right to, means that the Chairman has the right to restrict the duration of the debate on one or more issues if necessary to ensure that the adopted agenda is considered as a whole. So, Rules of Procedure, Article 27, says very clearly that you can limit the duration of the debate, and Article 75(2) says – the legislator has the right and obligation to explain the 15-minute proposal before the start of the debate. Therefore, I do not dispute your right to limit the duration of the debate in accordance with Article 27, but you cannot prevent the legislator from using 15 minutes as a proposing before the debate begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20280	According to the Rules of Procedure, the debate is open. So right at the beginning, we opened the debate and we acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The college, by the way, interprets the Rules of Procedure. If any questions are not resolved by the Rules of Procedure, then as you say, we will decide here in this House. Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20281	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm now under the impression that we're adopting the law for one man from this last discussion, which is Fikret Abdić. If that's the case, or if it's a hundred people, I'd like to know who else ran from those hundreds of people and who was elected to some function. Probably when we do an analysis, we'll see they're not there, they're not running and they're not chosen, because they haven't even run. It's even, I don't know, if they've run somewhere, and they haven't been elected to any council functions or chiefships, municipalities, etc. So somehow it came down, it seems to me here, that we are adopting the law so that Fikret Abdić would not be elected legally, elected by the votes of the citizens, not imposed by anyone. Now I'm really wondering how it's possible for citizens to choose him with all these characteristics that I've heard from colleagues here from Jasmin Emrić, who I believe in? How can people choose him? Did we make a mistake if we don't give them the chance to choose him? Is it possible we're wrong if we didn't give citizens the opportunity to choose who they wanted to choose, and they showed who they wanted? And to conclude, since I am not going to report for the debate because I spoke about this on the Constitutional Commission, much more damage in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to tensions has been done by some who are sitting here in Parliament, but also outside Parliament, and also by the BiH Presidency, who have raised tensions at that level in Bosnia and Herzegovina that we today cannot seriously choose those who have the right to be elected under the law. Here's even to pass a law like this, because we're literally under these tensions forced to choose not by the criteria of ability, or even by the criteria of party membership, but by the criteria of who has been more wronged by this country and who offends who more in this country. I really won't support this law because I think he has his moral side of it that my colleague was talking about, but I really do adopt the law because of 38 people I don't think is right and there isn't, after all, no need to be against people who choose someone by their own free will in the election. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20282	We have a problem technically with time, it doesn't show us, except on this display, so excuse the business for over-representation. Momčilo, is he staying, what is this correcting the wrong quote? ____________ No, he's done. It stays different with me, so that's why I'm talking to you. jasmin Emrić, Damir Arnaut, everything is different. Just a moment, please service us... jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20284	I thank the chairman. Well, here's to explain this discussion of mine and give an additional explanation to my colleague Novaković for why I told him at the beginning of the discussion that I was citing an example from the local elections, so that's just an example. I did not say that this law should be won for the sake of one man and one situation, but I said that it would eliminate possible situations in the future that certainly bring unrest and do not contribute to peace and stability in these areas. And as someone is elected to this post, the function of the municipal chief or any other function depends on the political campaign that is being led, that is, on the long-standing manipulation of a large number of citizens, because it is a long-standing, skilled manipulation that, unfortunately, draws these policies which at one point acted contrary to the Constitution of BiH and these policies which, unfortunately, formed an anti-constitutional form that resulted in crimes in the Bihać County, the current UN-Sancan Canton. And this is just a very picturesque example of why there is a moral justification, given the context in which we live and work and on the basis of these historical reasons why there is justification for supplementing the Electoral Law in this way. So here I do not think at all that we are having a debate over one situation, but because of all future situations that could possibly happen, which do not contribute to the return of trust between constituent peoples, but also to all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20285	Thank you. Mirsad Mešić, representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20286	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Emrić generally responded in a way that I would like to do, but to Mr. Novaković, therefore, I do not know from what context and suggestion that, here and before him, among other things, he realized that this applies to only one man. We do not prefer, under quotes, no war criminal, no people in particular are apostrophe, 39 applies to all war criminals and, as Mr. Novaković puts it, it is our moral relationship with those who have committed crimes and inability, or bans, that they may participate in the rule of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20287	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20288	I thank the chairman. I wish that in Bosnia and Herzegovina we could say what Mr. Novaković said that we haven't heard a less well-founded claim in a long time, but we hear things like this almost every day that don't stand. Here, yesterday we heard from our HDZ counterparts that we need to bring down this Law on the priority because it has never happened that rotations take advantage of the emergency, which is not true, but here it is, as I see this Law by fellow Bećirović, similar to this about emergency aid, it is simply a principle, but also a preventive action, because consider the fact that Fikret Abdić, when someone mentions him, came out of prison recently and the minority immediately ran and won immediately. We are simply in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we were immediately after djeton in a situation to arrest war criminals, now we have arrived at a time when these convicted, convicted war criminals are beginning to slowly get out of prison. And Fikret Abdić is not the goal at all, at least I don't see Mr Bećirović's proposal, Fikret Abdić is not the goal, but perhaps it's just a personification of what follows us. And that's why I think this is about preventive action, because we came at a time when these people, who will then bring the riot at the return and, perhaps, put back what little we have achieved in implementing Annex VII, return irrevocably and then Bosnia and Herzegovina, the trust between the people, after all, and the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina further question. And that's the only way to look at this proposal for Mr Bećirović's law, no different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20289	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20290	So yesterday, I also discussed on the Constitutional Commission on this, it's a matter of principle and our commitment. That is, therefore, the answer to fellow Novaković. What exactly do we want as a society? Do we want to boldly, responsibly, move towards the future, or, for example, on issues like this, on issues like this, and on cases like this, we're going to go back a little bit, we're going to open these wounds, we're going to deal with the past? So, in that sense, I also see this bill and we will support it and I think that, if we are talking and we really want to be responsible, that in this sense we should consider, we should discuss this present proposal, and it would be best to determine in this sense, that this approach that we will have is turned towards the future, towards topics that are important to us all, according to the better standard of life, towards stopping people from leaving this country, and not here today to spend about an hour, two 40 hours talking about how we're going to open up some old wounds and deal with the past. With that in mind, therefore, the Independent bloc MPs' club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20291	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20292	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, first of all, I'm going to do something consciously, so I'm going to break the agenda point, so I'm going to give an interpreter of the smoke signals, to Mr., my colleague Arnaut, that he will afterwards report to the replica, because he said, now he would interpret the Rules of Procedure and the House of People there, and what is said there, amazingly, therefore, that he has all the abilities, and I'm going to remind him himself, the truth is doing, so that his minister, his minister from his political party, the options, therefore, on the proposals of that Law that he's been talking about, that he's already regulated, that there's no need to be further regulated. It forgets, of course, to talk, but about it. Now, then, I'd like to go back on the subject, so you won't take my word for it. So, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I'll say why I was, since there were some misunderstandings in some media, well-intentioned under the precepts, so we didn't want to make a statement about it. So, I pleaded against it, but I gave my reasons to the Constitutional Legal Commission and I said, therefore, I was talking there about justice and justice, as I see it, but I didn't want it, and I don't want Parliament to take away civil rights and impose bans, so Parliament will be that. So I have no objection to what the essence of this proposal is, but I think this can only be done after the court's ruling. So, the court has to decide on this, in my opinion, that the person, any person, takes away the civil rights, and the one that the colleague is talking about in this law and I don't think this is the place in the Electoral Law, and that, as Parliament, we cannot, therefore, act in a legal manner without democracy. And why am I still saying this, I'm just going to say a few more words about it, because here and when you read more carefully, it's about violations of humanitarian law. You have people who are so much called war criminals, so, who are sentenced to 3, 5 to 25 years, do we, by this law, therefore, take away a man who may be in a position of war because we generally act here because he has attended an event that is a violation of humanitarian law. So, we don't have what, we're going to bring in such a provision and a person who has such a criminal, or who has executed a sentence under the provisions of the Criminal Law for the violation of humanitarian rights, so they won't, will lose it, as we say, passive civil law. That's why I'm not this way to deal with it, by election law, I might possibly support it in the Penal Code, that this is a court decision. As far as I know, the court, none of these numbers here, has ever given any possible candidate for violation of humanitarian law a measure to take away these rights. So, does it make sense, then you come back to, I said to the Constitutional Legal Commission, to the provisions of the Old Testament, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. I don't need justice, I don't need justice, I don't need a second chance at any crime, this is very imprecise, this is going to cause trouble. I said the different situation has, from 3 years to 25, to life, so it seems to me that we can't handle it by election law and because of that, just for the record, of course I won't support these changes. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20293	Thank you very much. Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20294	Thank you very much. I am correcting the false allegation of a respected colleague, Lovrinović, in a section where he says that only the decision of the competent court is valid and that this right can be taken away by a citizen, i.e. the principle that every citizen has the right to vote which means both an active and passive right to choose and to be chosen. That part of the allegations, and to be brought into question by civil and political rights, is not true. In one small segment yes, but I'll come at the end. As a correction of the quote and argument, I refer to Article 9. The constitution, not to read it whole because of a time limit, which just states the reasons, foresees conditions regarding the restriction of electoral rights. Then, not to read, it says most of you know it, or I guess all of you, I call on Article 4. Anexa III, which speaks of elections, which prescribes the right and candidate of the vote where certain restrictions are provided for in that Annex, such as years of age and residence, etc. As a legal basis and the reason and evidence of my claim, I also refer to the Code of Good Governance in Election Affairs, Guidelines and Reasons, the position of the European Commission for Democracy through the law known as the Venice Commission, which adopted these standards in Venice from 18 to 19 October 2002, and it is precisely in them that, therefore, the general right to vote is considered, the possibility of restrictions on age, residence, citizenship, etc., on page 5, that I do not read it to you. Also, in terms of seizing the right to be elected and elected, and the law treats passive voting rights, the proposal of a respected colleague, therefore, is not taken away, not the right to vote, but to take away the right to run and to be elected, and these guidelines provide that it is possible and as conditions and reasons for it to come is to do so, therefore, that predicting the withdrawal of passive voting law must be established by law and we are just discussing it and the law has been proposed, And the law itself has, then, to respect the principle of proportionality [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's a crime. [[the speaker is warned on time]] One of the conditions, if you'll allow me, which my colleague is right is only if it's a mental incompetence. and if the right is fully taken away [[the speaker is warned on time]] votes and civil rights, then it must be done by the court, [[the speaker is warned on time]] And that's not the case here. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Major crimes and are the reason for limiting electoral rights, i.e. Passive [[the speaker is warned on time]] election rights. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20295	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20296	Here you can compensate with Rancic's discussion, I won't do much because most of what I was about to say is exactly what he said. I wanted to refer to Mr. Lovrinović's position, the claim, that he could not run for office, this law to regulate this problem, although the gentleman said in the second part of his presentation that it was possible through the Penal Code, so here it is, about my contribution. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20297	Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20298	Thank you. Mr. Rančić, so, I'm, I'm not saying anything, I've given my reasons why I'm going to vote anyway. So my attitude and my impression and my knowledge are what I told you and I stay with them. And I forgot in the discussion, so I'm spending my free time, this, as is said, correcting this incorrect quote, so, my colleague Bećirović said that the key reason for the non-refundee, Mr Bećirović, for example, in Travnik was the murder of police officers and returnees Hrvat Travnik, and that was one of the biggest reasons why he stopped a serious return to Travnik who was on his way when it came to Hrvat. So it's not just this key... but there are more of them, and it's never been investigated why it happened and how and who did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20299	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20300	I'll go back to this law. Before that, in order not to remain unarranged, I absolutely condemn any violent act against any citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina in any part of the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and when it comes to this Law, I must say that this Law has three fundamental characteristics, firstly, the Law is set in principle, the Law is preventive, there is fellow Arnaut quite right, and finally, this is European law, these are European values and this is European experience. To be more specific, this is a Western European experience. According to counterpart Novaković, the problem is that we paraphrase what people choose war criminals. Look, all the people in the EU, especially in Western Europe, and we who may be professionally and professionally dealing with some of these issues, we know very well that someone in Austria and Germany in the first two decades after World War II allowed war criminals to run, we all know very well what the results of the election would be. Therefore, let us, if we are already saying that we bear European values, that we really accept these European values. And this fellow Lovrinović is not a non-democratic law, your colleague Rančić quoted the opinion of the Venice Commission as saying, I will not repeat what he was talking about, except I will add that the opinion clearly states that these rights can be limited, but that they must be provided for by law, respect the principle of proportionality and be caused by mental incompetence or serious criminal liability. In this case, this law has fulfilled all these criteria, but I will now add another very important thing from the opinion of the Venice Commission, quote – conditions for the right to be chosen may be less stringent than those for the right to choose, since it is a public function and may be justified to exclude or exclude persons whose activities in that function would hurt a significant public interest, so this is the position of the Venice Commission. [[the speaker is warned on time]] To sum up, there are every assumption that today we will adopt this Law and avoid a serious appeal and injustice in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20301	Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20302	Thank you very much. So, I'm sorry that my esteemed colleague Lovrinović failed to follow, the one, perhaps I spoke quickly and many of these facts and on several of these acts was called, but they were really contained as I said and the other colleagues confirmed this. And what I do know, I'm a little worried about this, the HDZ stance, I know that our esteemed chairman and respected colleague Bariša Čolak is working with me working in one body and on Election Law, I know they're familiar with this, and I know that they know all this. So I would like to ask my colleagues to consider their position in the support vote. Of course, I'll support, as far as I know, not speaking on behalf of the club, but at the club, we said we'd uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20303	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20304	I thank the Honorable Chairman. This is about Mr Bećirović's claims that this is about European practice. I would ask him to give us the state of the European Union in which citizens who have served the prison sentence are still deprived of passive voting law. True, in Britain, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Estonia, Bulgaria and Romania, the right to vote is both actively and passively limited to persons sentenced to prison until they endure prison sentences. Be careful, until they get a prison sentence. In eight European states including France and Germany, there is no general ban on voting rights for all prisoners, but a judge in prison punished for the most severe forms of crime as an additional sanction can impose a ban on active and passive voting rights while these people are in prison. As far as the Venice Commission's opinion is concerned, you've read it beautifully, but you keep skipping that part that speaks of proportionality. And finally, the verdict, a number of European Court of Human Rights rulings, one of which highlights Skopje's ruling against Italy as the most significant. They say passive voting rights can be limited to prisoners, not free citizens, to prisoners. So, this isn't a Swedish table, what do we do when someone adopts this and somebody nice sues Bosnia and Herzegovina at the European Court of Human Rights? Of course, the European Court of Human Rights will rule as it has already ruled, and then we will have another problem from Sejdić-Finc here that we will not be able to solve for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20305	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20306	I think it's a little too much to compare this to Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac, but it's not my correction to my colleague, Aleksandar. Mr. Novaković said that the law was passed for one man, which is, here is what the promoter said was not true. On the other hand, Mr. Lovrinović said 44 that the law would create major problems because of a large number of people, some of whom are sentenced to shorter sentences. So these are two diametrically opposite attitudes of which neither, nor the other is true. Nor will this Law create problems for a large number of people, nor is it brought about for one man, but it is this Law of Civil and European Liquidity, is a law that can bring one discharge in our society, is that the law that goes in the direction of reconciliation and is a law that we can say is a law for the future. Of course, unless we make it through our discussions differently. I'm just going to, and I'm giving up, or here I am giving up, from the discussion, just going to say two more sentences. I apologize to my colleague Džaferović for having to mention you, but when the SNSD Club proposed your shift, they said that Parliament is not a courtroom and Parliament and it is not and should not be a courtroom and I think we all agree on that. But then it was stated in the explanation that – because of the heavy burden of the war past and the accusations attached to the name, the person spoken of cannot perform the function. So this is based on what she said, and without a court ruling, the attitude that someone can't perform a function. The law proposed on the contrary, that the said words should be released from Parliament's room, and that what the unequivocal court finds should be a relevant fact on the basis of which this law applies. And I don't really know which human rights you can defend that someone who's convicted of the most severe, who's convicted of war crimes, that most precisely we say, should be someone who will behave most in this country or any function directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20307	Thank you. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel. Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20309	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think we've gone completely wrong and we don't want to look reality in the eye here. We don't want to see that this isn't about depriving the right of someone who's made a financial one, something, so convicted, but is here, or in traffic, or I don't know what, but it's exactly said here - war crime. We are a country burdened with something being treated in international law by a war crime. To create a place of normal life in which people who have experienced the pogrom can, in which people who have experienced the pogrom, we can make the space of Bosnia and Herzegovina at least the space they will live in so that those who have made the pogrom over them tomorrow will not rule them again. Can you imagine what it looks like, so I'll address my colleague Lovrinović, I know Darie personally, but to make Dario the Chief of the Knights Municipality and have the children of Ahmić watch him.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20310	He's not from Knights.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20311	It doesn't matter, I just mentioned it, I know where Dario came from, that's why I said it like this. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20312	You're making a mistake on purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20313	Please, don't argue from the scene. Sign up for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20314	And to be watched by the mothers of Ahmic. Or, can you imagine...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20315	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20316	Will you let me finish Nikola? I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20317	Please, it's worth the same to you, don't hold a hearing with the MPs in...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20318	I don't lead, I talk in a microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20319	And all the other MPs, it means to you as well as to everyone else. Please proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20320	Or can you imagine what it would look like to be the convicted war criminals of my people, my Bošnjak, come and be chiefs of, say, the municipalities of Jablanica where Grabovica is, the people who have experienced the pogrom there. Or the Srbin too, but then the Bošnjak. There is no war crime here, no national omens, various crimes are the most terrible in the general definition of crime that can happen to a citizen, to a people, to a country, to anything. And this is all about these people. And in all the verdicts that have been made, it doesn't say war crime, it goes into war crimes, and then it says, "Crime for murder, not war crimes, these little sentences my colleague is talking about." I tried to consult and something called science, so, then, I'd like to read it all, what those who are dealing with a psycho man for those who took part in such events as a war crime, say Artur Šopenhauer, Kant, Egel, Sartar, Miler, should read them and see what is in theirs, and what happens when they come back to them, in the heads of those over whom the pogrom was made. And we, if we are very aware, if we want well any citizen, any people, anyone in this country, we must always go to full condemnation and elimination of war crimes, because too much has been in these places and constantly evoking memories throughout history. I suggest we adopt this law. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 'Cause don't forget that ethically when a doctor makes a mistake, he loses his right. [[the speaker is warned on time]] dealing with activity while he's alive, and he hasn't done it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] War crime. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20321	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20322	Well, this is more of a replica, so to speak, I hope I'm inside the Rules of Procedure. Someone here was talking about the principle of proportionality or equality in this Law. When you mention the names and names of people from one nation, from another people, you say – some people somewhere. I would ask you to be careful, proportionate, equivalent, and act the same way. And this is one of the topics where we can say that, the Latin proverb, the nomino santa diosa, if we don't behave in principle. I didn't want to correct other false allegations, I'm not within this matter, but I listen very carefully to what is said, so when my colleague Magazinović says that this law, this one, follows the civil and European values. Civilization come on, there are different civilizations, but counterpart Pandurević listed precisely what European legislation looks like in that part. I guess that's the exact data. I would love it if we analyze this Law, when we prepare to decide how we will make it known that we do not have a flat-rate assessment of what European practice is, what European legislation is, but that we have some more precise data so that we do not, among other things, receive European court rulings that cost us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20323	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20324	Dear colleague, I'm sorry you didn't listen to the discussion before. Among other things, Fikret Abdić has already been mentioned, here I will say Enver Hadžihasanović as an example, but I have only taken this to say that a picture is being created that should not, here I have not mentioned anyone from the Serbian people, that a picture is being created of what is happening in the heads of people who have come over them with torture. And nothing else. Imagine yourself having survived the torture and then coming to you to be guided by the one who spent the tour over you. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20325	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20326	The Honorable Madam Chairman. So this is a very difficult question, no matter how this is discussed, we have the opportunity to accept the public differently. So we have a serious question that concerns the passive right to run and experience European countries. We haven't heard convincing arguments. I must tell you immediately, therefore, it is my opinion that anyone convicted of war crimes should refrain from any degree of candidacy at any level, given the specificity and complexity of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 47 July. This is an extremely important question right now, I understand colleagues who have discussed some issues, but I must say right now that, in the previous two calls, they were MPs from a political party one of the people who was convicted of war crimes and they would probably think differently about it. When it comes to my political engagement, it is my opinion that the political party I belong to will never propose anyone convicted of war crimes to any level of executive authority. And that would be the key message in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If, let us not be naive, that experts in the conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement were in any sense convinced that this measure now proposed by the Election Law would have been changed, either in the Constitution of BiH, or in the Sorazum on Elections, because you know... by 2000, this election in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without a dilemma, it would be realized that way. So, one more question I want to say. So, I agree that war crimes are one of the most serious war crimes and without, there are no dilemmas, but I have to tell you, the Proposer of this Law also when he proposes, whether we don't think, at the same time, that the crimes in the field of terrorism are the same in countries, so it's a threat to a significant number of people's lives, or to the taking of lives to a large number of people, whether it should also be defined by election law. Whether the question of convicts to years of fines for, say, drug trafficking, whether they have the right to passive running and even opportunities, in a certain sense, to pass. Is that too bad for Bosnia and Herzegovina? In this regard, I believe that we have entered into a problem that partially resolves this issue and I am therefore of the opinion that this issue should be defined clearly by the Criminal Law of BiH, including all areas and eliminate the possibility. I would remind you that one of the major European countries in Britain, the European Court of Human Rights, so in a verdict on the appeal of convicts to a years-long prison sentence, the withdrawal of an active electoral right ruled in favour of that person. Normally, large countries do not implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, even small countries in a certain sense. So this is a question that is used differently in Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of all specificities. And I must say that in Parliament, when these discussions are being debated, it is often used by who is for what. I am for any person convicted of war crimes to be abstained from running and that political parties bear responsibility. With the law of electoral definition, I believe that at this point we will not have any effect just to open up further discussions and stories on these issues that are present and constantly try to show who is on the European path, who is not. I don't mind the Ministry of Justice preparing this issue comprehensively and referring to the procedure to discuss possible changes to the BiH Criminal Law. This is me, I called in for this debate to make it clear we're not gonna back this bill, I'm talking about the SNSD Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20327	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20328	I thank the chairman. Article 98 (1) Rules of Procedure - representatives of public information funds shall be granted access to House sessions. I have information from representatives of public information funds that at the request of the House's chairman, he went to a space reserved for the media to warn them that, quote, they don't bang on keyboards because the College can't work. I think that this kind of 48 message, if it happened, I say I have that information, and it wouldn't be bad to check if it really happened, if that's true, it limits the ability of work and the conditions for the work of the public information representatives themselves. So if I haven't heard any banging here, I can't imagine it's heard all the way down there. I'd like to get some information, given that it's article 98 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, information on exactly what happened, and we saw the secretary go upstairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20329	Thank you. As far as the chairman is concerned, I have no idea, and as far as Secretary Home is concerned, if you ask, you can ask for information. I did not enter into any debate about it and enter only within the framework of the Rules of Procedure as regards order and order in this Chamber. We're moving on with the session, and it's not binding, so someone's creating order and outside of this room so they can work here uninterruptedly. As for the following, the debate came up, the correction of the wrong quote, jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20330	Just to tell my colleague Prodanović that I set an example in my discussion and cited the reasons for the war crimes verdict. And the weight of this work and the incomparability of such a candidate to represent a local community, i.e. to which a large number of citizens should be addressed to help or solve their problems. These are absurd situations that are inappropriate and that we need to eliminate from practice. And why do these proposals come to light or debates like this? It comes because such negative phenomena that cause unrest and which threaten trust have been recorded. And it has already been said that the preventive character is very important in this proposal, and of course it is in line with, as we have heard, with European legislation, or European values, that this part does not come out of these frameworks, but in the context of the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina can find a solution that would have a preventive character and contributes to peace, stability and trust that we need for the future and development of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20331	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20332	Dear colleague Prodanović, I believe that your political party will never do so but I do not believe that others will and I do not believe that they will not be malicious and those who put their egos above the rights of people to live normally. That's why this is done, because of those who are through the ego national and only national and only I am willing to do anything to get what they want. Well, I don't want to be, so I don't owe. kolega. Lovrinović, for example, imagine that Erdemović is running in Srebrenica, nothing else, and only because of these national tensions is elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20333	Representative Safer Demirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20334	Dear Chairman, of course I welcome you and everyone present. And I will refer to Mr. Prodanović's exposure, not in that sense to someone negative, but to the majority of Mr. Prodanović's discussion, and I like it very much, but one part, I would like, I would like to underline, to present about war crimes and about terrorism. And it's acceptable for me to have this conclusion that I can kind of commit myself to the same plane, but this drug thing is a matter of choice. In this case, we're talking about the victims of war crime and specifically terrorism, you had no choice, and we're talking about losing passive voting rights. The people to whom this Law applies caused the loss of life, not only of active and passive, and now allow such people to continue their engagement and work, I don't think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20335	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20336	And once again, I understand the emotions, I am against any additional, creating additional tensions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The issues you mention are different, and I don't want to question at all, therefore, the violation of the Geneva Convention and humanitarian war law in terms of sanctioning, but I said why I'm asking this dilemma and why it's not being asked in Dayton. I also have to tell you it's not just about the matter of choice, dear colleague Demirović, but I must also tell you -- potentially if a mass murderer, a mass murderer, endures a sentence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and wants to exercise passive voting rights, too, whether he is covered by this. So, that's, I'm just talking about the question that legal experts must clearly say that in this bill the four-to-five, not the Venice Commission's position on the dilemma of something, but, please, the key question is whether there is an identical country that takes away passive voting rights. What are you going to say? You'll say, as in Europe, there was no war anywhere,...the former Yugoslavia after World War II, but there were other countries. And let's not underestimate those lands. I have read various documents where a very large number of European countries, African countries, have met the obligations of the International Court of Justice, or, uh, this war crimes court in The Hague, as far as countries from the former Yugoslavia are concerned. So I'm just problemling it in that sense that for us this way of defining 22 years after the Dayton Agreement is unacceptable and we're going to vote against, I think that's legitimate law. Once again I repeat the Criminal Law when it defines these questions, which are arguments, we will determine each other. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20337	Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20338	The Honorable Chairman. Given the discussions that were all made, given the views and given the facts and for and against..., I am partly giving up my discussion and believe that I thought when 50 of this Law saw the light of day, when it appeared on the agenda, given the developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, what we all survived, I thought there would be no dilemma about this Law. Here, in order not to be a dilemma the Club of MPs of the SDA will support this Law and we expect other colleagues to support this Law, and all the other dilemmas that have been brought here could really, really be discussed around them, the maltenes all day could be lenient for and against. I think this is a good law and I think we need to have it in Election Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20339	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20340	Dear colleagues, colleagues. It's been said a lot today on this subject. I'll remind you that a few days ago, I suggested that we pass the Lustration Act, and that's what I'm saying to the apropo of these human rights. Some countries today, which are members of the European Union, have passed the Law on lustration, have taken away some rights for those who have information and evidence that they cannot even work in the state service. So that calling on what, if we are going to be, we will have this responsibility when it comes to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, we must first be aware of ourselves and of the state in which this country is located. We need to be aware of what war crimes are all about in this country. Take the last 5, 10, or 15 years that those who have made, convicted of war crimes are welcomed by national leaders, placed chairs in front of them, funded by defences against courts, etc., etc. There are even some, some information that is very accurate to be used in pre-election campaigns to score political points. It's the state we live in. And it would be interesting if either of us, here or anyone, anyone else, would give us, therefore, an Electoral Commission of Information as many of those chosen and convicted of war crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have them in different places, even some members of the BiH presidency who, even after the end of the term of office, have been tried. The only question here is whether we are going to create this atmosphere in which we live in the way we have created it in the past 10 years or whether we are going to choose another political atmosphere and create a situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not because of us, but because of those born after '95. A year? Are we going to be the ones who were born back in '95? For years to be sent to dorms with names on war criminals? These are the questions that we ourselves need to answer and accept the facts of everyone from that domain of his people and look into the truth, look at ourselves and say what is good, and what is not good, I repeat, for generations to come. I think this law is good, I'm sure, and it would be good, here, if there is a dilemma, and I believe that it will be obvious and some European institutions whether it is good or not, so let's remove these dilemmas, whether it's European or not, I think it is. And it would be good if today, from here today in this time we live in, the state in which we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we step behind, above the leaders who sign us and who have signed these voting lists for us, and to show them that it is better both for us and for generations. We will certainly support the amendments to this Law proposed by counterpart Bećirović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20341	Representative Hazim Rančić, hearing. Here you go, counsel. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20342	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Some also spoke of a moral aspect and, of course, legal, human. When it comes to the legal aspect of all this, keeping in mind the domestic legislation but also the one that is above ours and which we are seeking, I will repeat that in the Dayton Peace Agreement, and one of my colleagues was speaking, I know who he is but I will not call my colleagues, they say why this has not been done or why there has been no restrictions on voter rights. And I remind my colleagues again that he's just a member of the 4th. Anexa III of the Dayton Peace Agreement prescribed the right to candidacy and vote. And let's say first of all the restrictions were said that a citizen must be 18 years old, they didn't say 17, they didn't say 16, they didn't say 20 or 25, but the first restriction in that article is that a citizen must be 18 years old. Here, we have a restriction in the Dayton Peace Agreement. Then it's about residence, so it's about refugees, so what about those who aren't on the list, so what are the powers of the commission to run these activities, we know who led the first elections after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same and similar provisions on the restrictions on voting rights are set out in Article IX of the BiH Constitution. And not only if he endures the sentence, if convicted by law, but also by those who are accused, and avoids, therefore, the judicial police system, nor could they, we know it all from practice, could not participate in the election process. The third act I call on is the position of the Venice Commission, and we all know that it is the supreme legal authority in Europe. We all know that, and the composition, and the work, and the jurisdiction, and we know that it equates attitudes and that it says what it is and what it is not the legal course of the European Union. And this is also contained in a document called the Code of Good Governance, in electoral matters, guidelines and explanations, and is explicitly written in an explanation on page 13, reads – these principles represent a special aspect of the European constitutional heritage which can rightly be called "European electoral heritage". So this is the position of the Venice Commission. And any concern that we will come from Europe is a warning that our law restricting passive law for those who have done these difficult acts will certainly not come and I do not expect it, because it is as an attitude established by the Venice Commission in a way that has to meet three cumulative conditions, which is legally prescribed, the proportionality of the misdeeds, the works and these things and, of course, if the active and passive voting rights are taken away, then it must be the court's decision. And as counterpart Bećirović said – smaller, simpler reasons are when limiting passive voting rights related to the perpetrators of these serious crimes, and much more stringent reasons for making decisions by courts that are being taken away from both active and passive voting rights due to the disease of a certain man. When it comes to the moral aspect, there is really no argument from the legal point of view that we do not support this law. When it comes to the moral aspect, yes, I agree with my colleague Prodanović when he says I think you shouldn't have these people, and we can all agree on that, undeniably. Also when his party says he won't propose, so I can accept that, even though neither I nor he will, it's the future time. But they do, it's not a story of a personal attitude for either party, it's a story of passing laws and prescribing the right to behave for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because all parties can declare themselves not to do so, and what if these people as individuals run for office. At that time, the Election Commission must have the conditions laid down in the law, the reasons for accepting or not accepting someone's candidacy. It may be accepted in some other circle and for other serious crimes, but here are all the reasons why we should support the amendment and addition of this Law. Thank you very much, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20343	Thank you. 52 Please, we now have a registered representative to correct the wrong allegations, but we have a problem with the technique. In order to continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to give a break, here at the request of the people who warn us from the service, because it is impossible to follow, it cannot even be reported, so, here, do you agree that perhaps a colleague, er, Lovrinović, correcting the wrong assumption, and then leaving, because I also applied for the debate, we will not conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20344	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20345	Later. Then we take a break for an hour. So we move on at 2:45. At this point, distinguished MPs and MPs, we continue with the session. At this point, we have a quorum. Representative Damir Arnaut reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20347	I thank the chairman. So here, even though we haven't even checked the club's position, I think I can say for sure, or I can say that the SBB will support this proposal for Mr Bećirović's law. And here I will focus my argument in the direction, or my discussion in the direction of what is somewhat, less or less, whether it is said, but in terms of showing that none of what is said to try to challenge this bill is simply not true, from a legal point of view. We had an argument that this is nowhere in the democratic world. Here, let's go, before we get close, get very far. In Western Australia, anyone convicted of a serious crime can never again be elected to public office. In Quinsland, in another federal state, the restriction for certain precisely defined acts, there are restrictions for certain, for certain periods of time after serving the sentence, depending again on which crime is being committed for which the person is convicted. The second thing, now that we get a little closer, is similar in France for certain acts, with them prescribed that the restriction lasts a double period of time than that period of time for which the punishment is determined. In Spain he can never, ever again be chosen if convicted of certain crimes such as treason, etc., co-operation with the enemy, similar in Belgium. And not to say, therefore, there is absolutely no claim that there is no such thing anywhere, there is much and most in democratic countries of that restriction. The second thing, the European Court of Human Rights has never had a chance to decide on this particular issue. The Skopje verdict someone mentioned simply said that there could be restrictions as long as the person in prison is. Namely, the man Scoppola addressed the European Court of Human Rights because he wanted to choose and be chosen while he was sitting in prison, although the Italian law did not allow it, still does not allow it. The European Court of Human Rights has considered his appeal and said the law is in line with the European Convention. So the Court of Justice did not have a question of candidacy in that case at all after the sentence was served. Scoppola was at the service when he complained, and that is the only thing that concerns that verdict and cannot continue to refer to any other question. Three, someone said only a court can, and here I remind you that the Central Election Commission can take someone off the electoral list because of, amongst 53 others, hate speech, for example. Four, the standard of the European Court of Justice, and this is what if the European Court of Justice once, because you mentioned, is whether, if it comes to a new Sejdić-Finci and that, the European Court of Justice standard always, always, is whether a restriction is reasonable and justified and whether it is introduced with the aim of meeting the legitimate objective and that standard requires that when the Court considers a particular subject to the price of all relevant circumstances in the given case. And I am convinced that if the Court of Justice found Bosnia and Herzegovina, if someone tried Bosnia and Herzegovina, or addressed the European Court of Justice against Bosnia and Herzegovina, it would also appreciate the fact that we have a specific situation because of reconciliation, return, etc. And finally, someone said that the Constitution prescribed a restriction and that we can't go beyond that restriction, that's absolutely not true. So, the restrictions in the Constitution that people who have not responded to the call, whether the International War Crimes Tribunal can't be on the lists, can't have voting rights, it's just the smallest standard that can't be prescribed by the Constitution that it can't be changed by law, but the Constitution hasn't said anywhere that we can't add any more restrictions, and then we even added to the electoral law restrictions that state officials can't be candidates in elections, that state officials can't freeze their status, and that state officials can't even freeze their status to be candidates in elections, that diplomatic representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina can't be candidates in elections, etc., etc., and none of that says in Article 9. The constitution and that argument are finally not standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20348	Chairman Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20349	Thank you very much, very much. As far as the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and HerzegovinaBećirović election law is concerned, and by respecting all the discussions I've heard, I'll also remind you, although we said this, this one, through today's debate, we discussed this proposal for the law at the last session as part of a negative opinion. Why did I mention this? Today we have a proposal to amend the Election Law, which is the addition of the Election Law, which has a positive opinion of the Constitutional Commission and we are discussing it today. Now we have heard a fellow Arnaut who calls, as a lawyer, to legal arguments and denies everything someone else has said. I will also state my position because the bill says that no person who has endured the sentence imposed by the International Court of War Crimes and the former Yugoslavia or the Court of Justice of BiH, the Republika Srpska and the Federation, or the court of another country for serious violations of humanitarian law prior to the arrest or found, means he can neither be a candidate nor have any appointed or electoral, or any other public function in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. No matter what someone called and gave himself the right to, I don't know, know the best of both the Rules of Procedure and the Laws and the Constitution, today we haven't heard any debates that came in favor of constitutional justification for the adoption of these amendments, or the addition of the laws. As regards the proposal for an amendment to the electoral law, it has a basis for me in the sense that this Parliament can amend the Election Law, but as regards the content of the provisions and the proposals for the provisions that are being amended, for me they are absolutely contrary to the content, i.e. Article 9 of the General Provisions of the Constitution of BiH, which they say - no person who supports the sentence imposed by the International Court of Justice for the former Yugoslavia and no person who is under the indictment of the court and who has disobeyed the invitation to appear before the court can either run or act on any appointed, electoral or other public office in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I'm concerned, here I am, and I'm going to take as much of my right as some colleagues in terms of how much I know the norms. So the law can't extend certain provisions concerning the limitations of certain rights, whether passive or active, although, here stands in our Electoral Law that, too, but refers to persons who are in support of the sentence that can't even be entered in the Central Election List. But, in any case, I repeat, for persons who are in detention, they cannot be listed either in the Central Election List, nor can they be candidates, nor have any appointed, electoral or other function. From that point of view, this proposal is unacceptable to me, and whether or not, who will be right if we pass one law like this, it will certainly be judged by some other institutions, not Mr Arnaut, and not by Borjana Krišto, or anyone else. With that, I will make clear and loud my position, that because of these provisions the Constitution prevents me from raising my hand to such a law. I will not speak further about any other provisions we have, but I will, as far as I can, do everything possible to ensure that all the laws adopted by this Parliament are in accordance with the Constitution until we change it. And in this way we will show really how much we want to build up and how much we respect this rule of law and how much we want to build up the rule of law. Thank you very much. Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20350	Thank you. So, I've been in touch and in the debate before, therefore, these breaks. I might want to fill out my colleague Rančić, and I don't know how he got the information that Dario Kordić was killing Bosniak children. If Dario Kordić had killed Bosniak children, I don't know, so. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20351	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20352	Killing kids.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20353	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20354	That's what you said, but I don't know, where that information came from, he was convicted, what he was convicted of, I'm not defending, but I don't know, it's the first time I've heard from him. And secondly, Mr. Rančić, there he is not here in the hall, this one, and some others have called for the views of the Venice Commission which is the authority, therefore, in interpreting European regulations, so I hope that soon the electoral law will come here, so that we will respect what the Venice Commission has said about the House of Peoples in the Federation. So that's where she said she was the House of Constitutional Peoples, not the Canton, so we'll see how much we hold to the opinion of the Venice Commission. I hope we'll hold onto her then. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20355	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20356	I would like to say that there is absolutely nothing contrary to the Constitution of BiH in this law, especially if we bear in mind that the Constitution of BiH, Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and this Law is strictly in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, and by not adopting such provisions or similar provisions that will prohibit the running of war criminals in the elections, we also question the essence of aneks vi itself, and thus the Dayton Peace Agreement. And if we could do it this way, we'd already quoted in the session clear provisions of the Venice Commission, and I think at least there should be some consensus about it. I don't understand why we're taking a step backwards at the session today when we solved some things two days ago. Well, I suppose there is a Constitutional Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and this House to determine whether any law is in line with the BiH Constitution. We have an official opinion, ahead of this session, the Constitutional Commission that this Law is in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the Constitutional Legal Commission supported it. You said the law cannot limit the rights of individuals, in this case, of various criminals in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the question is, how can we not react to a restriction, I repeat it once more, that hundreds of thousands of all citizens and peoples in this country do not have passive voting rights? And is it possible that today from this building some want to send a message, a hundred war criminals, and we will protect them, they must have both active and passive rights, and these are almost Half a million, they still run out of passive voting rights. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's not neither a European nor a civilization message. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20357	Thank you. counterpart Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20358	I thank the chairman. I am very pleased to hear from a respected colleague, Lovrinović, that he finally recognises the Venice Commission as the supreme legal authority. In view of the fact that several months ago when the European Parliament resolution was discussed, the rapporteur of which was Mr pred and in which Croatian representatives were most of the HDZ, so from the Republic of us neighbourly, friendly, and according to the most friendly neighbouring countries, asked for the federalisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we from the SDA told them that in 2005, the Venice Commission confirmed in its documents that Bosnia and Herzegovina is already a federalised and very decentralised state, taking care of the fact that there are 10 cantons in the Federation. In a dialogue show that we were on, Mr. Lovrinović disagreed, and I made that claim and read it in the official acts of the Venice Commission. And I'm glad Mr. Lovrinović said this today, I'm really happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20359	Thank you. 56 Comrade Zaim Backović, you have a 3 front number on our monitor, so I hope you've been able to see that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20360	... the agenda point. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20361	Debate, colleague, deputy Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20362	Madam Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers. For me, it is outside the debate actually whether this law is based on the BiH Constitution and whether it has its own justification. I gave my vote for this Law on these issues to the Constitutional Commission. So I can also talk about it, and I think there's a constitutional basis and there's a justification for this law. We can talk about it long and wide and, of course, I will support this law. I think that's what the president of the SDA Club said in his discussion, that's the SDA's position. What I've been doing today is trying to get a second reading to a text that wouldn't contain... I am now addressing the legislator to take these facts into account, no incendiary and make things perfectly clear. So here it is said that the persons who have endured the sentence of the prison that he has imposed, are now also referred to as the courts in attitudes (a), (b) and (c). In addition to the sentence of prison there is also a long-term, long-term prison sentence, to take care of the possible problems when it comes to the matter, then, to make sure it doesn't seem better to be – persons who are legally convicted, because it's a broader notion than the person who endured it, because it's possible that we have a person who has been convicted, and it didn't endure for these or those reasons, and the candidate is, therefore, a very serious thing. The second thing or the third thing I ask the Proposer to take account of, it is all repairable in this second phase, when he speaks in the position (b) of the courts, then it is said – the Court of BiH, it is nothing that is imprecise, but the Court of Republika Srpska or the Court of Justice of the Federation of BiH, there are municipal, cantonal and supreme courts, which are the courts so that there are no problems, this, during the application of this Law. And here, in attitudes (b) and (c) talk about serious violations of humanitarian law. As far as I know the criminal laws, the term – a serious injury I don't know if exists, but there are exactly those crimes. I'm afraid this isn't some space for some void that can lead to interpretation. So these standards have to be completely accurate and that's my contribution to this discussion, so I'm going to, about this agenda point. So, I will, of course, support this Law, and I ask that these things, first of all, be asked to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20363	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20364	In accordance with Article 76(2), words were spoken which I did not say, and I beg you, for it is a very harsh word, you said that he was killing children. I didn't do it once... 57
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20365	Please, MPs, I warn him of the provision of Article 76 relating to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, says – the representative is obliged to specify the provision of the Rules of Procedure which has been injured...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20366	I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20367	After which, the President of the House will decide on the justification of the objection in relation to the Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20368	Article 76(2)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20369	No, it's about correcting the wrong allegations and opinions. Therefore, you have no right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20370	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and correction of the wrong allegation, so the member is defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20371	Please, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. You abuse the Rules of Procedure and you have no right to speak at this time. We're going to correct the wrong quote, Predrag Kožul. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20372	I have just reported that perhaps, not to correct the false allegations of a esteemed colleague, Džaferović, but to strengthen that intensity to make the law very clear. See the last sentence in Article 1. The law. It cannot be a candidate or have any appointed electoral or other public office in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. Why am I reading this, with an emphasis on this – and another public function, this is in Election Law, but what does it mean – another public function? And additionally to appeal that there should be no hypocrisy in the vote of this Act, I will read you two sentences relatively fresh, three months old, says – The Administrative Council of the Public Institute Cultural and Sports Centre Bugojno co-ordinator for sports and the management of the city sports hall appointed g., in the war of the camp manager Stadium, who was legally sentenced to four years in prison by the inhumane treatment of prisoners in 2013 before the Court of BiH. So we have fresh phenomena of this, maybe what I'm saying is speaking in favor of the law, but the law should still be clear. What is a public function within the meaning of this Law?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20373	Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20374	My kolega Kožul, these are all things for phase two, both commission, so for the second reading in front of the House of Representatives and I am somewhat sorry that my colleague Džaferović even opened this 58 story by telling us about the shortcomings. This is not a law where there is a need to potentiate shortcomings, and if there are shortcomings, then they, uh, power up in phase two. But what has also offered me, colleague Kožul, is that the law is very clear, so there is nothing clearer than that, and here I am going to say again and I will speak to you by the end of this term, the ambulance has priority over the escorted vehicles, so you voted against it again and I will repeat until the end of the term.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20375	At this point, I don't see any more registered under this agenda. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-11503/17, of 15.06.2017. (first reading) On 1606 2017, the legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH Institutions. The draft law was removed from the agenda last session of the House because the Constitutional Legal Commission did not deliver an opinion. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on 19 September 2017. The commission accepted the principles of the bill's proposal and established compliance with the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20377	The Honorable Chairman. The chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, Mr Serž Bramerc, made it very clear a few months ago that we still have a widespread practice of denying established court rulings and added that the situation is now even worse than five or ten years ago, those are the words of the chief prosecutor. He also said there are still politicians and forces who continue to insist on discrimination and hatred and that the main factor in their policy is just denying the crimes of genocide and other war crimes. If there were no other reasons, and this should be enough reason why we should have one such law here in the BiH Parliament. This Law, therefore, treats the prohibition of denial, denial, justification or approval of the crimes of genocide, holocausts, crimes against humanity, war crimes against the civilian population, and this Law is not directed against any nation in our country, but is a law that should allow for a safer and more prosperous future for our children. What are the key reasons why this Law is even proposed? First, I want to say that honest and well-intentioned people in Bosnia and Herzegovina must never get tired of looking for truth and justice. Secondly, the struggle for truth, justice and consistent impelmentation of judgments by the International Court of Justice, on top of that, there is no period of time. Third, we need this law, not only for the sake of truth and justice in the past, but also for future generations. Finally, a law like this must be won in Bosnia and Herzegovina sooner or later because without it, we cannot build an environment of security, justice and trust. What are the main characteristics of this Law? First, he makes it clear that we need 59 to respect our international obligations as members of the United Nations, and there can be no guessing either in our country. Secondly, this Law respects all innocent victims, and it goes towards building a society of justice, peace, and respect for human rights. This law promotes the environment of security for all people in our country. And ultimately, it is very important, at the end of the prevention of potentially similar events in the future. I have to quote American Congressman Kris Smit here during this debate, who once said clearly at the speaker of the American Congress, and speaking about the genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina – justice is a prerequisite for a sustainable reconciliation no matter how long it takes, we must never get tired or discouraged in seeking justice. These words by Congressman Smit today have their echo and echo, not only in the United States, but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What is the content of this Law? This Law therefore provides for the prohibition of public approval, denial, difficult reduction of crime. This Law prohibits the distribution of material in order to deny, minimise or justify the crimes of genocide and other war crimes. Finally, the law also provides for a ban on denying judicial judgments and the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the BiH Court of Justice. I want to say very clearly here that the problem of banning genocide and denying genocide and war crimes is not something that is only the subject of this Law, and this is some way and a European experience. Almost all European Union countries and those most advanced have resolved this issue in their criminal laws, some even by the constitution of those countries. I think that, on this path to the European Union, we must fully respect this European experience and get both honor and courage to finally resolve this issue in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20378	Thank you very much. Although I did have a warning, but I didn't interrupt the esteemed representative for the reason he's also a proponent of this material, but although in his debate he didn't say whether he spoke as a proposing, I assumed that the debate was connected, so. Representative Nikola Lovrinović called for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20379	Thank you. So, I would like to explain my position, too, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I did not support this Law either, therefore, and the previous one proposed by my colleague Bećirović and this one, I suggested to him in accordance with Article 166(1) or 170. 1st and 2nd. The Rules of Procedure that he takes advantage of the business opportunity and returns it to the Council of Ministers for, behold, all that we have discussed in the previous point, the complexity of what is regulated by these amendments and additions, however, he did not accept it well as he proposed. So I have the attitude that I have, and here's only two three reasons why I have it, for example, in Article 172 that reads, so it's being added, is it? I asked, therefore, what does it mean – she denies it publicly, what does it mean to deny it in public? So, is it a park, is it a coffee shop, a market, a street? So, I'm having a vague article, which is why I suggested that a certain procedure be carried out. Is this a small door to the return of the former, I think, article 133 of the verbal delinquent? So, if you say anything, then someone, and now they still have these funds, except for the ones that are officially listening to us, so, and the ones that we're doing illegally to ourselves, so they tell you that you're saying something somewhere here, and they're sending it to a judge who's going to judge you in this vast range based on, I don't know what, how he's assessing what public denial is. Or, say 60 of Article 172 c) says – whoever denies the verdict means what it also means, it may have been more skillful to say here who is acting contrary to the court's decisions, which means denying, so I don't know. These are so flexible terms, and especially when you put them in the context of a range of penalties allowed and those judges who today, tomorrow, will judge in this case, or the prosecutor, who will initiate the proceedings. So even then, I had the view that I wouldn't support this Law, and now I have the same attitude, and I'd like this to go back to the Council of Ministers, and that what I'm saying and some other things are being checked through a regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20380	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20381	I must say that from my colleague Lovrinović, as someone who comes from a party that represents itself as the bearer of European values, you would be expected to know these European values then. So all that is not clear to you to begin with, or that you have read the proposal of this bill, or, on the other hand, that you have clearly read the Criminal Law of Germany, Austria or some other country of the European Union, so that you can see how they solved it and how they interpret these concepts. And there wouldn't be any problem in that case. As far as the second part is concerned, the Council of Ministers has no problem at all. I remind you that when this law is sent to the procedure, and this Law stands publicly for 37 different victims' associations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers sent its proposal after a few days. The Council of Ministers' proposal was alive until 11 July, until the Srebrenica memorial. After that, no one from the Council of Ministers, including the Secretary-General, mentions the Law. The fact that they don't do their jobs, that they proposed the Law only until July 11th of this year, that's not my problem or anyone from the opposition at all, I guess you should ask these in the BiH Council of Ministers. And third thing, my colleague Lovrinović, I would still invite you to support this law. We need that for all of us in BiH. I, too, will tell you this, in the past term, in the College, have suggested to my colleagues that we make a gesture that we did not work in the post-day period, which is that together with me at the time, colleagues Ljubić and Živković would go to Jasenovac, Vukovar and Srebrenica. Not to equate what happened there, but to try symbolically to show respect for the victims. My colleagues refused, my colleague Ljubić said – out of the question, we only need to go to Bleiburg I went to Jasenovac alone, to Vukovar and Srebrenica. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I, my colleague Lovrinović, think there is no one in this country. until both Croatian and Bosniak children learn what happened in Jasenovac, what happened both in Vukovar and Srebrenica, [[the speaker is warned on time]] But that's why we need a lot more state courage, courage and responsibility than we have today. [[the speaker is warned on time]] in these parliamentary benches. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20382	You've broken business time. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20383	This, first of all, if you have read also what is proposed as a change and supplement, it applies to the general term, to all citizens, and also to those who act in certain positions, so there are only different proposals for penalties. And if you'd explained it to me now, despite these European standards you're talking about and these things you've read, which means publicly denying it, maybe I would've agreed to vote... You didn't explain anything, you just invited me to read on, study, write, find out, etc. So, to me, the vague term is "publicly denied", as a pronoun, you should have tried to explain it to me in order to possibly raise your hand for such a thing. But you failed, and unfortunately I remain in my position.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20384	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20385	Thank you very much. This is an international standard and the United Nations and we, in some previous mandate, have tried to bring our own, as a member country, into line with that legislation and, of course, that's when it fell apart. Here, a second or maybe a third try and now it's being challenged. Of course, this is also a European standard, we know it before, but it also says in the reasons for the adoption of this Law in an explanation that even 11 countries currently, so it lists them, prescribes the denial of holocausts and other forms of genocide or crimes against humanity as a crime. The European Union has also taken steps towards incriminating the denial of genocide. The first joint action 98/443/JHA envisaged that racist and xenophobic behaviour should constitute a criminal offence in all Member States. The proposal for a framework decision on the fight against racism and xenophobia was then drawn up in 2001. In this document...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20386	Please, counsel to whom are you replicating?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20387	My colleagues to Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20388	- What's that supposed to mean? Give an indication.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20389	In the end, I'm gonna say a sentence, okay? I quote this part, so I'll finally say, I'll do it...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20391	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, don't waste my time, 'cause when the time's up, you'll tell me the time you spent. So this is, I quote this because it's an undeniable thing that this is a standard in the European Union. And what I find a little inconceivable is that dear colleague Lovrinović, as 62 promoter of these European values and a member of the party who says, for himself, that he is doing this, challenges this thing. He called me a little bit last time, I'm a little, uh, late, of course, when it's law, and European values, and human rights and all these standards, when the Law comes on him we'll discuss, election law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20392	Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20393	Well, you see, colleague Rančić, we all have double criteria. A few days ago, Lovrinović also pulled three resolutions here, either by the European Parliament or by the Council of Europe, which talk about similar things, then it was retrogamous, I don't know how. Would we have to, uh, see the European Parliament resolutions as one package if we really, uh, were to solve these things in a consistent way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20394	Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. You're giving up, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20395	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20396	Thank you. A colleague, Deputy Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20397	Honored chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. This Law, in my view, therefore, is also based on the BiH Constitution and its principles are such that they should be supported by the House of Representatives. On several occasions, we have tried to reach a law that would prohibit or declare a punishable denial of genocide and crimes established by judicial judgments. We had different forms, once it was a special law, so when it was a special law, then those who were against it said that we should do it with the Criminal Law, so when the Criminal Law came, then the whole problem was challenged. So, I think this law needs Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the interest of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is one, apart from, therefore, the general principle of civilization or principle. And I think Bosnia and Herzegovina should have it and adopt it. I, therefore, support this law. In this Law, I have also carefully reviewed all the provisions, I have not seen any inaccuracies that could in practice produce problems tomorrow. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20398	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20399	Thank you very much. My colleague calls me, I wouldn't really answer, and I'll be very brief. I'm not acting from case to case and I'm looking and I'm trying to keep an eye on things completely. If it's a European standard, and I think it is, let them correct me if they don't think it's a ban and genocide, and a holocaust, and totalitarian regimes, and fascism, then it's a whole thing, but if someone wants a tweezer to pull one thing out of it that they like, and challenge another, third or fourth one, or fifth, or 25th European values, then that's exactly how he behaves. Let's do all these things and you'll have, uh, my vote for it, if he's anything at all important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20400	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20401	I fully understand the need and what Honorable counterpart Bećirović has proposed and I appreciate that he has proposed such a legal form, but it is obvious as in the previous case that this Parliament does not have the strength to meet with what is normal in the civilized world. But what concerns me further is, and what confirms some of my earlier exposure, is the fact that today we have these replicas between the SDA and HDZ, and by nothing, they just agree that the Council of Ministers is doing well. That, therefore, is the only thing they agree on, and they agree on nothing. So, here, that's why I'm, I don't know what my esteemed colleague, Šemsudin Mehmedović, thinks about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20402	Thank you. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Law No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017. (first reading) On 27 July 2017, the legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion, establishing that the draft law is in line with Article 105 of the Treaty. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 54th session held on 07 September 2017, the College of the House appointed the Constitutional Commission to consider the draft law. On 19 September 2017, the Commission delivered the information to the Commission. The Committee's opinion accepted the principles of the bill's proposal and established the consistency of the bill's proposal with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system I open the debate. Deputy, colleague Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20404	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I support the principles of this law. On the Constitutional Commission, we also supported the constitutional basis and principles. Bosnia and Herzegovina needs this law, and I think it is time that we reconsider the existing provision of the law that gives the possibility that persons who have been sentenced legally to prison sentences for up to a year can be executed in the appropriate currency equivalent of buying a prison sentence. I think that provision needs to be reconsidered and I think it's a legitimate suggestion to rule it out as a possibility. It is, among other things, about the equality of citizens, their property, and that I am not telling some big stories right now, and that is, in the end, also about a special and general prevention aimed at giving sanctions. What I would, therefore, now looking at the details of this Law, until the second stage, also suggest to the legislator of this Law, so this possibility is done here by this Bill only for the crimes of Chapter XVI. I think that this institute should be completely excluded from the BiH Criminal Law against all crimes, but I don't mind this head being, of course, XVI, and that's why I am. And we have a (2) attitude that speaks of parole. I'd like to ask you a little more detail about this provision that it actually means from the point of view of penalties, which can cause, too, different discussions in practice. Here, therefore, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20405	Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20406	I thank the chairman. I join the support of this law in first reading, and we will see how the amendments will be, possibly, formed. I just want to say that, here, my colleague Mehmedović is in the O.R., that yesterday we had an opportunity to hear, and it's very much about this Law, that in the course of this year, 12 people who support the punishment are going to go free under this member of the Criminal Law that's being talked about, so people who are accused of terrorism. It is not the subject of this Law, but it is an opportunity for all of us to ask together what will happen to those 12 people who have endured their punishment, and it is the people accused, or convicted of terrorism. No one has ever worked with them during the sentence, nor has there been a resociation program, 12 people this year. We also had an example, somehow, this, wasn't about this Law, but these meetings that we had with people from security agencies from all levels of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they were talking about exactly the topic of fighting terrorism, somehow this case, happened the day before the session, but as one of the negative examples was that one of the people who was convicted of terrorism paid, exactly what this law wanted to end, paid her sentence and didn't go to prison support, but, did she, did she, the money provide herself with freedom? By the way, the origin of that money was questionable. So, I am absolutely saying this in support of this Law and I believe, as well as my colleague Džaferović, that there is the possibility that until the second reading, i.e. to continue to speak a little more actively in both Parliament and the public on this subject. Although the law is simple it is a very complex and very important area for the safety of all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20407	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20408	I thank the chairman. The SBB fully supports this bill. Here, let me explain, so here are two key things. With this bill, there is no replacement of the prison sentence for fines and no parole and according to this proposal, this applies to all crimes, that is to all those convicted of all crimes under Chapter XVI of the Criminal Code of BiH. Some colleagues have already touched each other without quoting a specific member, so there is also a member of 162b in this glava. A criminal law of BiH that treats illegal formation and association with foreign paramilitary or parapolitan formations. So, we all remember that was adopted in 2014, so that Article 162b. It was adopted on the proposal of the SBB Members' Club in this House of Representatives. And based on that law, I think it's already, at least, seven people who have either joined foreign military formations at the Syrian War, so radical persons, or who have been there and returned, so they've already been convicted. Some have endured punishment, some are currently on trial, but what is particularly worrying is that one, at least one, according to what I know from the media, has replaced those persons with a pronounced criminal sentence for fines. And that is absolutely, when it comes to that category of convicted, the convicts absolutely inadmissible and, above all, dangerous to the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by the image, international, Bosnia and Herzegovina and, as I had just discussed another law, these things should also have, whether or not, a preventive character. So no one can hope that if he tries to join these terrorist units, then he can simply replace any punishment that is imposed on him, or punishment to be imposed on him, is he, for fines. We also think we should maybe go on. Once this is adopted, also in co-operation with the Ministry of Justice and other relevant ministries such as the Ministry of Security, consider raising minimum penalties for these particular acts, etc. So that's what this article 162b is about. which, as I said before, was adopted just over three years ago on the SBB proposal. However, there is also no need to ignore the fact that this law treats the entire Chapter XVI and, therefore, introduces these restrictions, which we really welcome, that there is no replacement of the prison sentence for cash, no parole and other criminal acts, because, you see, glava XVI says - crimes against Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity. I really congratulate my colleague Pandurević for treating this whole glava Xvi.. And then there's article 156. - attack on the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Article 157. – endangering Bosnia and Herzegovina's territorial integrity, of course, preventing the fight against enemies, whom other than Bosnia and Herzegovina, helping the enemy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., etc. So it's really one good bill proposal, and we're going to support it for all these reasons, and I'm glad that, considering whether, where it comes from, we're going to have an undisputed and entity majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20409	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, pals. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20410	I thank the chairman. Ma, I'm gonna use this, my colleagues talked more or less, and I thank everyone who supports this proposal, and I mean, since we didn't get this from the Council of Ministers, that we adopted a conclusion in November last year, this is a solution prescribed by the Criminal Law proposed by the Honorable Minister Grubeša. And we didn't want to, we're really advocacy, and I'm pleasantly surprised that in this House we see that other colleagues are in order to completely abolish the replacement of the prison sentence by one year's fine, but we weren't sure if it would have support. We've talked, we've consulted with people who apply these laws, and it's their opinion that we should do it for the reason that people are being discriminated against, on those who have money to pay, and on those who don't have money to pay, without talking about some people saying I'm going to pay, so don't pay, so he ends up running away and what happens. So we're open if anyone submits an amendment here to prevent any criminal acts from replacing the fine, we don't have a problem with supporting such an amendment at all. As for the adjudication, it is true that both Bosnia and Herzegovina was on the proposal of the last SBB Club in this Parliament to be the first country in the region to commit a criminal offence to go to foreign wartimes, it was done by respected colleagues from the previous club. That's something that's good. As for other attempts by some of Mr. Arnaut's adjudications and burnings, these crimes – the attack on the constitutional order of the minimum penalty is 5 years anyway and we have no problem with that. In Republika Srpska, you have no NGOs calling for the collapse of the constitutional order, unlike the Federation. You know, at constitutional, the attack on constitutional order is also an attack on the Republic of Serbia. The second thing, the most severe attack on the constitutional order that happened in this country is the February, the unfortunate one, 2014, and we just don't want, which unfortunately no one has responded to, it's the most terrifying attack on the constitutional order, the arson of the Presidency institutions, across the whole, Tuzla, Zenica, etc., and we don't want to be repeated in this country again, Alečkovići or, I don't know, I remember a colleague Arnaut that one of your last names was Arnaut called Beli in Tuzla. Now, that's an attack on the constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20411	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20412	Oh, the chairman, I just wanted to warn you of one important thing. It's an extremely important area, and I have to say that I appreciate the courage of my colleague, I hope that she's being shoeed, uh, and professionally in terms of these changes. This is such an important issue that it could receive in a certain sense, not to slow down the obligation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to prevent any extremist or terrorist action, the opposite effect. In this respect, until the second reading, a statement of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Security on the issue would be necessary. Come on, I want to warn you of one thing, any degree of discrimination in any sense in any sense between these people potentially in Bosnia and Herzegovina can undoubtedly strengthen extremism. This is such a serious question that we shouldn't be looking at it in a word. And in that sense, I believe that the Council of Ministers' position on this matter is necessary. Otherwise, it could happen in a year or two that we have the negative effects of this 67 Law and we can grab our heads. Therefore, the resociation of persons convicted of this action, including all segments of society, is a key issue for the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina or security, and any other state. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20413	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20414	Well, I really need to look back on what Honorable colleague Prodanović said by mentioning discrimination. I don't think there's any discrimination here. It would be discrimination to allow one group, let's say, the Institute of Replacement, a parole within that group that, I don't know, is covered by glava XVI without allowing another group. I'll remind you we have a good example of good law, in Serbia 2013 so-called Mary's law and that Maria law have been abolished, meaning the disabled parole institute for all, for any crime against the child's sexual integrity. So we can't in that case, we could talk about discrimination that out of this Chapter XVI that's covered by some permits, some are not allowed, but they're all covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20415	Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20416	Please, I'm not saying this for no reason. I try not to pour oil on fire when it comes to extremist phenomena anywhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This, I warn Parliament, is a dramaticly serious issue, not to dispute the need for it. We must have the position of key ministries in the Council of Ministers. And what I want to say is this incomparable story with Maria's law and this, but I'm saying it primarily as a doctor and as a man who wants stability, peace and understanding among people in this country. So I'm not saying it absolutely from the legal point of view, but I'm talking to sociological, psychological-medical. So this is an extremely important question, and we must not allow any legal action to lead anyone into additional activities. And I'm going to suggest this conclusion to the House, the House will plead, I don't mind if people think otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20417	Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20418	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm not a lawyer, and I can't talk about the legal dimension, but what I can say in any case is that in these circumstances, this will now have a very positive and international dimension when it comes to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because there are a lot of objections to the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to how these things are sanctioned, but possibly that it will also cause a certain problem, because as far as I know these legal capacities in 68 Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is not enough, regardless of the fact that even some new capacities are being built. But in any case, this is something to welcome and such activities have come very well in one of Bosnia and Herzegovina's affirmations as a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20419	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, dated 12.05.2017. The Joint Committee on Human Rights delivered its opinion on 05.07.2017. The Commission unanimously adopted the Report and delivered it to the House of Representatives for further action. The report was removed from the agenda of the 51st session of the House due to the lack of awareness of the applicants. I'm opening a debate. Damir Arnaut, violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you gave up. I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I propose mandatory inclusion in the agenda of the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Assembly of Points: Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest, guaranteed prices and safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH, and a proposal for a response to this initiative", issue: 01-50-1-1623/17, of 05.07.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20423	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to take the opportunity to actually ask a question, I don't know who, who could answer me, – is the end of the work of these ad hoc commissions dealing with members of the Management Board of an agency that would go into the group of agencies, the initiative itself, which should be reconsidered, reconsidered by the justification of their existence? So, we have the Higher Education Agency, and something else follows, the same would be with the Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency and a number of others, we have since the beginning of this term had an ad hoc commission, which since the case was Poplašen by members of the Management Board of this Agency. I wanted to ask someone, whether this last commission that did it or, uh, if someone else can answer – is this the end of the selection of members of the Management Board of the Agency that we do anyway, it is questionable whether we need the Agency itself, without talking about members of that Management Board that we have not stopped choosing, here, in this mandate since June 2015, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20424	Thank you. I can only comment on my colleagues that it's just a matter of amending the law. We have a report today on the determination of the proposal for a ranking, so let's focus on the debate on the candidate's proposal. This was done in accordance with the law and, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, today is our agenda. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20425	To tell you the truth, I'd just like to look back on the part of my colleague Vajzović's discussion that asked if we needed that agency or not. This Agency, as well as the Higher Education Act and as all higher education institutions through this Agency, have communication with the European Education Area. It is one of the very important preconditions on which the international community insisted that the Agency be set up. It is now another matter of respect for that Agency or whether the Agency is making assumptions that this Agency can do in full capacity what is required of that Agency. As for this work by the Commission and recording these proposals and talks with the candidates and this list, I absolutely support what you said, and I do not prohibit anyone from launching the initiative on any basis, and let's just say what my colleague Vajzović was talking about. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20426	Thank you. Representative Nenad Lalić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20427	I welcome those present. Here, as a rapporteur, I'll take my right to explain a little bit. Namely, the Agency for Higher Education, or the Management Board, numbers ten members, of these ten members, we are obliged to provide five regular professors. In order not to interfere with the work during the election and replacement of board members, it takes place at three stages, 4+3+3. As you know, there have been some, uh, problems about why this process has been going on for a long time, we have to first of all meet two criteria, one of which is national, and the other one is professionally prepared, or that we have a number of regular teachers. When it comes to this third round, let's say, there have been some changes, and it's interesting that there has been a very low interest in people applying for board members no matter what is published in three votes and in the "Official Messenger". In this case the third, let's say, we had, this is the third time, the third repeat competition, the first time we didn't meet, uh, we satisfied the national structure, but we didn't have the education structure, so we had three candidates, so we canceled the competition, and now we had five candidates. Of those five candidates on the interview, four candidates who we interviewed responded, while the Secretary of the Interim Joint Commission of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency met us that they had received one intervention in terms of the emergency by the Higher Education Agency to speed up the selection process of candidates for the Management Board, because this is the way in some crumbling system that interferes with their work and decision-making. We did the interview and from what we say, let's say, we had ranked people and made a list where we got a list of four candidates, and three candidates, as you heard, were the first candidate, Nedžma Džananović-Miraščija-Mirace, Marinko Jurilj – the second and Stevo Pašalić – the third. Of these three candidates, we only have one regular professor and that was enough to make up our mind and choose a rank like this. The only thing I can do is take the opportunity to suggest here that we vote individually for the candidates, if there are options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20428	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20429	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate the efforts you've made in selecting candidates and I appreciate that this job, I'm sure, has been done in a very good way. However, here I have a dilemma, this structure of government at the level of joint institutions for three years here has often, almost every session, been regularly elected by members of the boards of directors. Here I call upon you to deny me in the claim that each time it was voted for a list of candidates offered never individually. I don't know what's now the reason to vote individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20430	Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20431	Thank you for giving me your word. I'd ask, I'd ask, given that the point is subsequently included, to deliver material to us so that we can know who the candidates are, he's not here, you know, take it in electronic form, so we won't be carrying this many books here. Well, here I am opening up there's nothing about me. _________(?) You got it, now you got it. When now? _________(?) About an hour or two ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20434	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20435	I thank the chairman. I pray that this proposal cannot be respected by Mr Lalić, is it, because then we can get into a situation, I think given where the proposal comes from, is it, to choose a candidate from the order of the Serbian people, possibly a candidate from the order of the Croatian people, without Bošnjak being chosen, for example. I mean it's really that kind of thing, uh, we can't let, when really, when this is, the law requires it to be B, H and S, after all. Here I remind you, even one Bosniak candidate had more points than the third-ranked list that is ahead of us, this one, but unfortunately that's how it goes in Bosnia and Herzegovina B, H, S and then when it's chosen then there's a whole list to be chosen so that we don't get into a situation, is there, that someone, so here I say from the Bosniak people, why not, is not elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20436	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20437	I thank the Honorable Chairman. There were Mr. Košarac cases when there were exceptions. Think of two cases, in the case of RTV and in the case of the Commission, which supervises the work of the institutions of the criminal and correctional type of prison, in a very clear manner. You remember that the first-placed us, that we didn't come forward here, so it was asked to be another person, and then a special commission was formed which was made up of three members from the House of Nations, three members from the House of Representatives, and eventually came up with one of the 72 names. But it seems to me that by looking at, say, just two biographies here, I think we have impressive biographies ahead of us. I personally think that we should give young people a chance and very, very educated people, and I don't see anything controversial, I don't see anything controversial today that we finally declare this, and whether the House will declare Mr. Lalić's proposal is on every representative individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20438	Representative Nikola Špirić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20439	And here are the gentlemen chairman, as many stories as there are about these commissions that need more expertise, we get as little expertise as possible and as little national as possible. Then it would be quite fair to say here that in no committee, in any common body there is no chance except for three national parties and let's be honest and honest. What does it mean to someone who has the highest number of points and doesn't belong to one of the ruling parties? Why are we running to vote in a package unless that's exactly what we're going to do. Come on, I'll congratulate you if it happens the other way around. So, have we really come to this extent in this House to choose candidates who are honey-eating pears? So, what does it mean to someone to show up and have the highest number of points, regardless of whether they're Srbin, Hrvat or Bošnjak? It's still missing that, to write party membership, I think this is a devastation of the profession, and that's why these agencies are so disenfranchised, I don't know how much they need in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20440	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20441	I don't know who someone isn't standing here, but I do know that Stevo Pašalić is eternally appointed to the SNSD in front of the Council of Ministers led by Mr Špirić and in which he was later sitting and in front of this Parliament as long as the SNSD was part of the majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20442	No more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20443	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20445	I usually belong to that branch, all the way up until there's someone who's got a number of points, but the logical thing is to say that man, here's not a SNSD on the board, man has the highest number of points -- are we going to cross it because he was in the last session, I'm just asking. We'll get into a situation, honor people, people can, have health problems, bring Sokoc into work bodies, 73 if they belong to some parties. Is Stevo Pašalić guilty because he has the highest number of points in the previous composition? I've never met him anywhere in party bodies, and I know a man is one of the strongest demographics in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Name me, I know other people, and you name me any. Let's get the men out of this, and I haven't called at all for Steva Pašalić's sake, which means he's meant for his role not to be elected. Well, it would be better if a man were told – we are the majority, so don't compete, don't pay a fee, we don't respect what you're doing, and unfortunately, we have come to such a situation. So, I haven't called at all for Steva Pašalić, but here's a colleague who helped me say a few nice words about him, and I think everyone else who chose him is obliged to say that while he was there, we didn't have any problems with it, and now he's got the most points, and I'm very interested in whether we're looking for a professional man with the highest number of points to drop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20446	I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. The information of the BiH Council of Ministers and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers on the conclusion adopted at the previous session reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić to collect by the next session the signatures of representatives whose support is in his work, so that a position on the status of the Council of Ministers of BiH can be adopted in the coming period" – Proposer of point: Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-50-1-15-52/17, as of 20.09.2017. We placed this item in the House's decision at today's session. I'm opening a debate. Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20448	Since you asked me for the material, and it says here that the report should be submitted by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which I don't see in the O.R., I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club of 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20449	At the club's request, the Independent Club, I'm taking a 20-minute break. Dear MPs and deputies continue with the session, at this point we have a quorum. I'd like an agent to explain to us the reasons for asking for a break. Here you go, Agent Ahmetović. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20451	The reasons are that the chairman should be honored and you should have invited him to come and say two sentences to this House in connection with the conclusion adopted by this House and the agenda points, as it relates to the chairman and the Council of Ministers. With this in mind, not to report again, I propose a conclusion on this agenda point: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to include the Council of Ministers' meeting for 24.10.2017. And nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20452	Thank you very much. I don't see any more logs on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to item 12, I propose a pooling of discussions on points 12 to 19 of the agenda, including item 19, since it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of amendments, agreements, conventions and contracts. We vote first on the unification of the debate. Of the 33 present – for 26, no objection, abstention 7. The Federation of BiH - 17 for, no problem, 3 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 9 for, no problem, 4 abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority, and I'm saying that we've united the debate on points 12 through 19, including point 19. Ad. 12. - 19. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, conventions and contracts The opinion of the committee responsible for foreign affairs at these points has been given to you. I'm opening a debate on these points. Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20454	Just for a little while. At the beginning of this session, I said we were just handlifters and wavers, because we are only here to verify something that has already been done and nothing else is done and that is why we are serving in this Parliament. And my dilemma is, and of course I could resolve these dilemmas I don't see here the finance minister, giving consent to ratifying the loan agreement. I am deeply interested in what this means for the development of public finances policy, we are passing laws, budgets should be transparent, everyone, etc., and why are we taking credit for the development of public finances? We need someone to give us any answer to this, so we can, because now we're going to vote in the package, and that's why I'm going to be in a dilemma. Thank you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20455	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. No more reports, and Mensura Beganović, the debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20456	I welcome all present. I thank the chairman. I would refer to the same one, a verification, or giving consent to a loan of 70m euros and some million euros that will divide two entities for what we don't understand. And I also don't understand what it is for the development policy of public finances, but when I read it, I actually saw that it was an approved aid as a reward, under the terms of the so-called Labour Act, the Bank Act, the Labour Act, which limited the maximum amount for severances, in the Labour Act in both entities in which the collective contract is limited to three years, so these so far are invalid. And the essence of this whole loan taken as a 40-year loan is to reduce poverty for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If these laws, which have been counted as the reason for the loan, have reduced poverty to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I think it should really be taken... that this is a reward, but I doubt that they have reduced the poverty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20457	Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20458	I thank the chairman. Therefore, Article 74(3) of the Rules of Procedure clearly states that, in the event of the absence of the motion of an act, the act does not apply to all acts, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. Here is the promoter, meaning all these agreements, the BiH presidency. We don't have a proposing, I don't know, I'm asking if we have an authorised promoter in front of the BiH presidency. And I'm saying all of this is not for the sake of the form, really, but given the completely legitimate issues directed by Mr. Backović and Mrs. Beganović. Therefore, it is not so much a discussion of the two, but rather some legitimate issues which, that is precisely the purpose of Article 74(3) – in the case of the absence of the draft act, it is not discussed unless the House decides otherwise. So, if anyone in the House has any questions that the promoter can answer. And it even became a little bit more, I suggest you throw out that sentence you have written – our permanent members of the Bureau were invited to the session. I still, I think I saw Mr Ivanić once when Zvizdić was confirmed and that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20459	Dear colleague Arnaut, do you suggest that we make a statement about whether, be specific, after you have made a business provision whether or not you insist that the House declares whether or not we are going to have a debate, that is to say about this point without being present... 76
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20460	The Chairman, you can see how this position of the Rules of Procedure is formulated – in the event of the absence of the motion for an act, it is not discussed unless the House decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20461	So I'm asking you if you're looking.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20462	Well, if I wanted to ask, I'd ask, but it's not my, uh, obligation to look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20463	Okay, got it. There are no more reported at this time, Mirsad Isaković, a debate. Here you go, buddy, an apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20464	Thank you. I want to welcome everyone present. In fact, on this subject, I'd like to say just a few sentences. The borrowing of new and ratification of new responsibilities is, in my opinion, quite disputable. The consolidated report by the auditors on page 22 under point 21, so for 2016, it clearly states that Bosnia and Herzegovina paid 2.8 million in 2016, so for the untapped loans it had made to international financial institutions. The unused funds, so I'll remind you, have exactly 3,028.000,000, 3,028.000,000 funds that we haven't used, and for which we pay interest due to unused assets of 2.8 million. So, one really situation that I think is problematic. Is this Council of Ministers unable to use the resources we have at our disposal, should we go into new responsibilities, should new funds be sought, the question arises? On the other hand, there is another problem for me, that the auditors found that the main book did not lead, so these funds are not run... by a special sentence or by a special thread, but are led precisely to a position where other loans and other funds are held. For these reasons, and these few times before, I think it is really necessary to be here as a proposing and to ask these questions that are very important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20465	Thank you. With respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, although the debate has, in some ways, started, I am putting forward a motion for a vote on whether or not we will hold a debate and then declare ourselves on the proposals of these agreements, i.e. paragraphs 12 to 19, without the presence of the motionors. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20466	What, how is it formulated? 77
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20467	Are we going to have a debate and make a statement on points 12 to 19, without the applicant's presence? Please repeat the vote. Please repeat the vote once more. Of the 34 present – 14 for, 18 v, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, 13 against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 6 for, 5 against, no abstentions. There is no general majority, this proposal has not received the required majority. So we don't discuss these points, and we don't plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20468	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20469	Representative Momčilo Novaković, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20470	Well, I was going to say, but, look, you've now concluded that we've come to the conclusion when we voted whether or not we're going to discuss it in the package. According to automation, we have declared that we will lead the debate but that we will lead it in a package. And I don't think we should have had another vote at all. I don't know why we voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20471	Because, Your Honor, after that, we have had an objection to a business which speaks of not having a debate without the applicant's presence on certain points. And here I put it on, and I don't see any reason for anything to be controversial. Representative Hazim Rančić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20472	Thank you very much. At the beginning, that is, when we came to an agreement, you were as the chairman in constant practice asked the House of Representatives if we would unite the debate on all these points.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20473	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20474	And We made a statement, and We reached a valid conclusion, and you opened the debate. So we have a decision to bring it together and we're having a debate and now we have another decision. So what is the decision of the elderly, the shortcut, which you will apply as chairman? The one by which we have united all the points of the agenda and opened the debate and started the debate, or after that this conclusion, that is, this vote now? So we're just in one dilemma of what, I think that question should have been asked at 78 times when you said if we were going to unite and whether the debate was going to open. Since we've already decided this is all too far off.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20475	Thank you very much. I think we're clear when it comes to making decisions. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20476	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, when I get to the office now, to the club room, I'm going to tear up the Rules of Procedure, and from now on, I'm just going to respect what Mr. Arnaut says.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20477	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20478	It's definitely not a colleague of Lovrinović's because this is a good quote he just said, so he's not guilty, but he is a colleague of Rančić's, this one. So you see, we're, the chairman asked who's in favor of uniting the debate. So then we haven't started the debate yet. Until that moment, i.e. the opening of the debate, one of the members of the Bureau still had time to come here and attend the debate. The moment the debate began, and I did not notice any of the members of the Bureau, I took advantage of the business opportunity and warned of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I thank the chairman for the consistent application of the Rules of Procedure. So, the Rules of Procedure are clear, the debate is not conducted unless the House decides otherwise. The home pleaded and did not decide otherwise. I think this is one of those things where the Rules of Procedure and all the result of what's happened is more than clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20479	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20480	Thank you very much. It is true that Article 74 (1) states that the motionor, or representative of the motion, is obliged to attend the House session, but attitude (2) begins with the words – members of the BiH Presidency may, not, may, and members of the BiH Council of Ministers are obliged to attend the House's meetings. We've all seen if they're present or not. You have been neatly, applying the Rules of Procedure, moved to the next point, we have united as Parliament, as Parliament's House of Representatives of this point according to the practice that we have been working on so far, you have said, in the stenogram, to open the debate. Thanks to this, some of the colleagues have already discussed it, they wouldn't be able to discuss it if you hadn't opened the debate, and only after all that, the open debate, the question arises whether or not we will. Voting on the unification of all points is Parliament's position. Yes, we've united them, we'll discuss them all, we know we, we see who's present, who's not present, and I think in that direction...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20481	Comrade Rančić, where's the correction of the wrong quote? It's the chronology we were talking about. Where's the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20482	The position, position, fellow Arnaut argues that members of the presidency must be. The attitude (2) says I can, and they don't have to, I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20483	Thank you. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20484	Well, I mean, it's already funny. The one, Mr. Rančić, has an attitude (3). I never mentioned attitude (1), nor attitude (2), let's read on, please. In the event of the absence of the draft act, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. It cannot be clearer – in the absence of the act's proposal. Let us again list, the motion of the act of the Presidency, undeniably, undeniably undeniable, it is not debated undeniably, unless the House decides otherwise, undeniably that the House has decided otherwise. Very clearly, I don't think there's any point anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20485	Thank you. Hazim Rančić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20486	I understand the attitude (3) in a way that I do not dispute what it says, but when the House of Representatives votes and votes to unite all the points and when the chairman opens the debate and his colleagues starts to talk about it, and there has been a speech, I understand it as the position of the House of Representatives, that the debate is united and the debate is opened and the debate is held. I understand that as the attitude of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20487	We don't see where the breach of the Rules of Procedure was. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20488	I thank the chairman. 80 You will allow me to warn of a potential breach of the Rules of Procedure, I see that Mr. Džaferović has applied. Mr. Džaferović applied for the discussion, the debate was closed, the discussion could only be held during the debate. I'm asking you to, uh, respect that fact that you can't get a word in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20489	Thank you very much, we have those who take care of that, who we chair. Here, at this point, so, no more replicas on these issues. We're for discussion, so we've come forward a second time that there's no discussion, no statements on this agenda point. We've exhausted today's session agenda and I'm taking a vote by 5:30. I'll see you here at the vote. Can we start with a vote? Let's wait a minute, shall we? Can we take the vote? Please prepare for the vote. Let's go to point one. – The adoption of the minutes from the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Of the 33 present – for 24, against 1, abstention 8. The Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska, means there is a general and entity majority. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20493	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20494	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20495	... If the DF Club showed up, could we take a little break? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20496	Please come with the vote, we're late, I mean, it doesn't make sense, I think everyone has a responsibility. Please, we're voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Of the 34 present – for 16, against 17, abstention 1. So, there's no general majority, I'm saying ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20501	He insisted that the club chief asked for a repeat vote. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20502	He was looking when she said... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20503	When we realized, I heard you...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20504	Repeat, repeat the borjan vote. [[Common discussion]] There's nothing wrong with saying it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20506	Please point 6. – Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1503/17, of 15.06.2017. (first reading) We are voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Of the 34 present – for 17 against 17, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that we have not adopted the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code, the proponent of MP Denis Bećirović. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code – Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Law No: 01-02-1-1830/17, of 25.07.2017. (first reading) We are voting on the adoption of the bill in the first reading. Of the 34 present – for 26, against 6, abstention 2. There's an entity, there's a general majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code, the proponent of MP Aleksandra Pandurević. We had here a proposal for the conclusion of Lazar Prodanović, the promoter has drawn a conclusion about him we do not plead. 83 Moving to point 8. – Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, with Opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, of 12.05.2017. We're voting for adoption of the report. Of the 37 present – 20 for, versus 10, abstentions 7. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted a report by the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina on trends in migration and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers. Moving to point 9. – Report by the College on the effort to reach agreement on Senad Šepić's parliamentary initiative, which reads: "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I propose mandatory inclusion in the agenda of the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Assembly of Points: Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest, guaranteed prices and safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH, and a proposal for a response to this initiative", issue: 01-50-1-1623/17, of 05.07.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the initiative in the second round of voting. Of the 38 present – for 20, against 7, abstentioned 11. So there's a general majority, entity doesn't have 2/3 against. We find that we adopted an initiative in the second round of the vote of MP Senad Šepić. We now have the adoption of Senator Senad Šepić's conclusion. Should I read you the conclusions? _________(?) You don't have to. You don't have to. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20508	Can you read us that conclusion, please? Put the vote back.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20509	Please repeat the vote, and before that: – The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the Council of Ministers to establish the principles and methods of establishing the lowest guaranteed price and safe purchase of agricultural products in BiH according to known practices of countries and experiences from the region and the EU, the deadline for ending these activities is 30 days. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes that on the basis of the principles laid down, the implementation of these principles and the acceptance by the competent levels of the authorities operating in this area should be initiated. Please repeat our vote. Of the 38 present – for 20, against 13, abstentions 5. So there's a general, but there's no entity majority. 84 Are we going to the second round right now? _________(?) You got it. You got it. We're going to the second round of voting. Of the 38 present – for 19 against 13, abstentions 6. So there is a general majority, but there are 2/3 in Republika Srpska, which means that the text of the conclusions of Senad Šepić's MPs did not get the required majority in the second round of voting. Let's go to point 10. – Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency – applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the conduct of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-686-6,1/17, since 20.09.2017. We vote on the election of Nedžme Džananović-Mirašašač-Mirasci, Marinko Jurilj and Steva Pašalić as members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. Mr. Lalić gave up his individual vote proposal. Please plead. Of the 38 present – for 23 against 12, abstentions 3. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have appointed three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance in persons: Nedžma Djanović-Džanović-Miraščija, Marinko Jurilj and Steva Pašalić. So, members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. We're going to point 11. – Information from the BiH Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers on the conclusion adopted at the previous session, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH Denis Zvizdić to collect by the next session the signatures of representatives whose support is in his work, so that a position on the status of the Council of Ministers of BiH can be adopted in the coming period" – Proposer of point: Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-50-1-15-52/17, of 20.09.2017. The conclusion next to this point is that: The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives calls on the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to include the item – Function of the Council of Ministers of BiH in the agenda of the session scheduled for 24.10.2017. I would like to meet this House with the position of the College of the Foundation of the Rules of Procedure, in particular the article 100, which discusses calling a joint session. Stavak (1) says -- the joint session of both Parliament's Houses in the text "joint session of both homes" is called by the Houses Chairmans: a) on all occasions when it assesses the necessary Joint College on solemn occasions and in exceptional circumstances at the request of the BiH Presidency. 85 Also, a joint session in accordance with Article 172 is already scheduled for yesterday's session of the Joint College, and it is held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, meaning the basis of paragraph (1) of Article 172 at least once a year. The Joint College organises a special joint session of both homes on the subject – MPs and envoys ask the Council of Ministers for answers. I want to meet this House that this conclusion is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of this House and this should not be made known. So here, I see Damir Arnaut's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20511	I thank the chairman. You have read correctly by a member of the Rules of Procedure that the joint session of both Houses of Parliament is called by the Chair of the Houses on all occasions when it assesses the necessary Joint College. And that is exactly the direction of the proposal for the conclusion of fellow Ahmetović, because it calls on the Joint College to do so, not the House, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we here adopt this conclusion calling on the Joint College to carry out its business duties, so everything is absolutely fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20512	Thank you. I once again find that yesterday the Joint College and the basis of the Rules of Procedure have scheduled a session of 24.10.2017, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in a way that a joint session is held on the subject – MPs/Employers are asking the Council of Ministers to answer. As for the initiative in which you said, it means that one home cannot assign everything and declare the College together, nor does the other home commit to an appointment of a session on the subject it considers. The honourable representative may, either, seek or submit an initiative, whether adopted or adopted, which is, of course, the matter of the Joint College to assess whether or not he will, and I do not have the right as the chairman of one home to say what and how he will do to the Joint College when it comes to a joint session. Here, thank you very much. I hope I made myself clear. Damir Arnaut, is there a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20513	I thank the chairman, but also here, the three of you are not a Joint College, and then if this House votes something that the Joint College doesn't, it feels that it can't execute, then the Joint College decides that they won't call it, but it's absolutely right, the sovereign right of this House to invite the Joint College to do it, and then let the Joint College act like it thinks it should work, but you're not, I remind you, exactly what you said, the three of you are not a Joint College, and you can't then make a decision on behalf of the Joint College.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20514	Please, honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20515	You are so holding a session that you are inviting us out of here and that, yes, that there is no quorum, that this Parliament, that this Parliament does not have its capacity to work. So don't decide on behalf of 86 colleges both at home, it says here we're calling the College of Both Homes. Call on the College, refuse this, say it's all good in this country, say you rule sovereignly in this country, take away even from the MPs, let alone the ordinary world and the poor, and take that responsibility upon yourself. So, I urge you to call on the College and inform, here I am personally as a proposing, that you do not want the Council of Ministers to submit, so to discuss the functioning of the Council of Ministers, so I don't mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20516	Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20517	Okay, and in order to do what we need your initiative towards the Joint College, we are pleading here today. And I'm asking the College if we're going to make a statement today on the Information on how the agenda was? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So what we've been doing, shall we make a statement about the information that's the item of the agenda? Give us information to make her known, I don't know what we're doing. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20519	Please, we have Sadik Ahmetović here, the debate, we are now pleading and there is no debate on these agenda points. After these corrections to the allegations that were made, I will repeat once again to the distinguished MPs what I have said. So the Joint College was held and scheduled by the Rules of Procedure of the session to which you are calling, which is 24.10.2017, an invitation to the Joint College. This time, in order of business, he was by the House of Peoples. In no way am I, nor am I putting myself in office of anything, I am not entering content, but I want us to work fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to insist, to seek at another session, but I would like to repeat once again, that this session with the established agenda is already scheduled, means in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So here, if you want you can stay, you can insist on having this House conclude, but I think I said something that's in line with the Rules of Procedure, and you go ahead. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20520	I'm speaking to you, Secretary of the House. Mr. Secretary, am I an MP here in this House? Do I have the same rights as the other MPs? Why is the part of the stenogram in which the notorous lie was told not divided when I gave it to be shared with all MPs? What is it, are we, are we all here, are we all the same rights or is there someone greater, someone less right? 87
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20521	Please, where is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, can you give us a hint?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20522	Read what it says about insulting the MPs, Mr. Secretary, about the insults of the MPs and the falsely told and the lies, read.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20523	Please, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20524	You have a duty to interpret it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20525	Sadik Ahmetović is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20526	I do not understand you now, so you said at the request of the House, and you obeyed the House you do not chair, and you will not obey the House to which you chair. So at the request of the House of Nations you call a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20527	Where is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20528	Please put an end to the vote. So, yeah...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20529	Damir Arnaut's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20530	The college answers what we asked him, not you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20531	I understand, counselor. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20532	I thank the chairman. So again, Article 100 and Article 165. Rules of Procedure - other acts. The conclusion is an act which is adopted on issues concerning the procedure for the individual matter. So there is absolutely no basis, because it says here clearly – the vote on the acts of the position (1) of this member, therefore also on the conclusions, is carried out in accordance with the established decision-making method in the House. There is no basis not to put this on the agenda, especially no basis if the argument 88 is that a special session is already scheduled for that day. Would it be the first time two sessions are held on the same day? Is there anything wrong with having two special sessions on the same day? So, put an end to the vote, and then let the Joint College do its job, not that this College of One House decides on behalf of both colleges. All we're asking is to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-20-0.u20533	No Niko said this House or this College would decide on behalf of the Joint, we acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I was obliged to warn you of these business provisions that speak of the proposal for a conclusion that is here, no one has said at this time that we will not put forward a proposal. Let this House declare itself today and this proposal to the conclusion, as well as to many others who do not comply with the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I urge you to make a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of Sadik Ahmetović at point 11. – The House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the Joint College of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly to include in the agenda a session scheduled for 24.10. – The functioning of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Please plead. Of the 38 present – for 21, against 16... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, did you ask for a repeat? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
