ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2553	I suggest we get started. Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, I warmly welcome you and open the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The meeting invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers and representatives of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, representatives of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and representatives of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. Today's session is attended by 15 delegates, of whom 5 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. As you are indicated in the invitation to this session and in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 26th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 26th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Mario Karamatić to the foreign minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina Igor Crnadko; delegate Sifet Podžić to the foreign minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina Igor Crnadko; delegate Sredoje Nović to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Denis Zvizdić; delegate Zdenko Džambas to the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, Mr Ismir Jusk; delegate Dragutin Rodić to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this announcement, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the member of the BiH Council of Ministers were also delivered. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to the Public Television Service of BiH in order to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word first to Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, here again there is no minister who gives it to me, what he does, who he represents, what attitudes, I really don't understand, the gentleman has never honored to come to this House for a single session. The story of protecting sovereignty, of doing some kind of reaction, the NATO commander tells us what our Armed Forces should do. I will remind us all that we are not yet in NATO, it is not a threat to Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty when a foreign military person tells us what our forces should do. But here I will be patient, and I will hope that during this term, the Honorable Minister will appear before this House, so if nothing is here to hear our thoughts and to know about the views that should be represented outside by those destinations he is visiting and about the sovereignty of Bosnia and Herzegovina and internal and foreign policy, because there is clearly no information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2555	Thank you very much. I give the word to the delegate, Sifet Podžić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2556	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, dear guests, my question was also for the foreign minister and it is the issue of the Florence Treaty '96. years of subregional weapons control. With all due respect, Deputy Minister, Mr. Brkić, and I have no doubt that he can't answer that, but I am joining my dear colleague, Mario, and I will wait for Mr. Minister if he has mercy to come. One suggestion to the College, someone from the service, if you can get a little hydrometeorological services to be, uh, in touch to see if we're lucky that planes don't fly from the region, maybe the minister will come. And perhaps the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell Mr. Minister that he does not have to, if he is the foreign minister, to carry out his mandate abroad. ...is that the Foreign Ministry, but that doesn't mean the minister has to carry out his mandate abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2557	Thank you very much. I give my word to the delegate, Sredoje Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2558	Dear members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. See, I was lucky, and not only was I lucky, but it was chaired almost regularly at this session, so I could ask this delegate question, and it said: Did the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers within the meaning of Article 11 (2) of the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH set up a Intelligence and Security Advisory Service within the framework of the Council of Ministers of BiH, if it is when and how many employees in that service, 3 which is the degree of school preparation and what is the national structure, and if it is not what the reason for not setting up and does he intend to do so and when? Why I ask this question, it would seem to be formal issues that I think are not and are essential, because several Councils of Ministers have passed, but mandates, and that this service has never been established. OSA is too serious a service, too complicated a service, too professional service, a service that demands from this House, from the executive authority, and certain instructions, certain suggestions that it could adequately meet the challenges that lie ahead of it. If that's the case, especially Article 10. The Intelligence Service Act in which, among other things, I will only allow to refer to a few points in Article 10, where it is said, that the Chair of the Council of Ministers shall exercise control over the work of the Agency and ensure legality in the performance of its work, including the provision of general guidelines to the Agency for the performance of tasks which fall within the scope of the duties referred to in Article 5, 6. etc. This Act, then sets out the Agency’s development programmes and sets out guidelines for its implementation in coordination with the Directorate-General, provides the instructions necessary for the implementation of this Act, calls for meetings of the Executive Intelligence Committee at least once in each calendar month, submits to the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH an annual report on the Agency’s activities, no later than 01 May for the previous year, and continues not to read. Respecting and respecting absolutely and not in any way diminishing, God Bog, the ability of the chairman, the chairman and the profession and everything else, I appreciate that the formation of this Committee is extremely important and therefore would be delighted if it were confirmed that this Committee was indeed formed, and if we did not hear what time-oriented time-limit it is that we could expect more because of the interest and help the Intelligence Service, and as far as we are concerned, it is almost and negligible or quite irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2559	Thank you, Mr. Nović. The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2560	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable MPs and MPs. I thank the honourable representative Nović for asking the question, and here I will give you an answer within the time available to me. So, the BiH Council of Ministers has already made a decision in 2004 to establish a Intelligence and Security Advisory Service that has had continuity in its work since then. Therefore, the Intelligence and Security Advisory Service, as well as the Executive Intelligence Committee, was established primarily in order to consult and assist the chairman of the Council of Ministers in order to be able to carry out its tasks, as prescribed in Article 9. The BiH Intelligence and Security Agency Act. The service was established within the BiH Council of Ministers and as regards the Intelligence and Security Advisory Service, she submits her work report to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The Public Service Act in the BiH institutions is currently being applied to the staff of the Security Advisory Service and currently two persons have been employed in this Service, and this secretary of the Intelligence and Security Advisory Service is also the secretary of the Executive Intelligence Committee, which is, according to the nationality of Bošnjak, VSS 4 of the Master of Security Sciences and the Technical Secretary of the ESS, so the medium professional prepares for the nationality of Hrvat. The comparisons are done by this function, so the secretary of the Executive Intelligence Committee and in the Intelligence and Security Advisory Service, in previous, previous mandates at the time when the chairman was respected Nikola Špirić performed, were performed by a person who was a Srbin, a highly trained cook. And at the time of my distinguished colleague Bevanda's term of office was performed by a person by nationality of Hrvar the same VSS, now performed by a person VSS master of science by the nationality of Bošnjak. As for the composition of the Executive Intelligence Board, it is always made up of two deputy chairmans by the Council of Ministers and two ministers, so that the composition of the Executive Board at any moment reflects the representation of all three constituent peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the past 2016, every session of the Executive Board chaired, my smallness, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. The meetings were held on a regular basis, once a month, on 36 items of the agenda, and the adoption of numerous materials and guidelines were given, as you have just said, not guidelines concerning operationally concrete work, but general guidelines to the Agency for the implementation of tasks which fall under the part-time duty provided for in Articles 5 and 6. The Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, and in order to improve efficiency, accountability and legality in the work of the Agency itself. Of course, we as the Intelligence Executive Board, and after that the Council of Ministers adopted other important acts for the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency such as the Work Programme and... the policy of its activities, but these are acts that are ultimately approved by the BiH Presidency and are also addressed to the BiH Presidency for final confirmation. The Intelligence Security Committee adopted them, the Council of Ministers adopted them and was forwarded to the Bureau for final confirmation. And in these acts from the Work Programme and the Action Strategy, of course, it can be very clear about what these are obligations, the spectrum of competences and how the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH works.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2561	Thank you very much. Is the delegate, Mr. Nović, satisfied with the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2562	Technically yes, I am pleased to tell you that I am not convinced that one or two men you have, with respect for their professionalism and professionalism, are sufficient and that they can do all that and prepare what the Executive Board needs, to you personally or to the three of you, in particular that Article 8 is too wide and where it requires the full formation of a much larger service that could be much more adequate to help not only you but also the Intelligence and Security Service. And I think that, in that direction, we should take additional steps in the next, next time if we really want to strengthen that way and through the executive power, we give suggestions, or guidance to ourselves, to the Intelligence and Security Service itself, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2563	Thank you very much. The word is from delegate Zdenko Džambas. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2564	I join the greetings of my colleagues, and since I see that there is no Minister, Mr. Jusk, and I know that this is a responsible man, probably for legitimate reasons he is absent, I will not spread this question of my own, but I will read it and ask for an answer to be delivered to me in writing, and that at the next session, I will plead whether I am satisfied or not. These days, therefore, there are activities and preparations under way to paraphrase the transport agreement between the EU and the Southeast European countries - Albania, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and what agreement should then be signed at the upcoming summit of the Southeast European countries to be held in Rome in the summer of this year, thus ending the work of the current Transport Observatory of Southeast European countries – SEETO. One of the items of this contract provides for the full liberalisation of rail transport, so I ask the question: How will this contract be reflected on rail transport within Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the operations of the Federation Railways and the Slovenian Railways, as well as companies operating the railway infrastructure? What conditions does Bosnia and Herzegovina take over by signing this contract in relation to the transition of rail transport, the implementation of EU rules, state aid rules and competition? What are the views of the entity governments in relation to this contract, given that the railway infrastructure, as well as the railway companies, is owned by the entity? How does this contract foresee the development of a transport network between the EU and its signatories, i.e. how are the procedures for running projects to expand the basic and comprehensive Trans-European transport networks for the Western Balkans, given the abolition of SEETO? And in what way will the signing of this contract reflect road traffic, as well as inland waterways in Bosnia and Herzegovina? All I'm asking is for an answer to be delivered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2565	Thank you. It'll be delivered. I give my word to the delegate Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2566	Dear Members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Ministers and ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it reads: The Council of Ministers of BiH adopted the Economic Reform Programme for 2017 through '19 at the end of January. The programme contains a medium-term macroeconomic framework and a fiscal policy framework, including fiscal measures, as well as a comprehensive programme of structural reforms to improve the country's growth and competitiveness, as well as a document made in the co-operation and coordination of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, resulting in 11 joint among the 18 priority structural reforms in the final document. Analyzing the Programme can be seen as covering key segments of society and the need for economic progress and reform measures. My question is – What mechanisms are envisaged for the implementation of this document, and how will the envisaged measures be implemented in real life? 6 The reason why I ask this is the gap between the normative and real and the concern that one quality document remains a dead letter on paper on the one hand and, on the other hand, responsibility to the realization of commitments made by the signing of the Protocol adjusting the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Knowing that the issue is very complex and that it would probably take a long time, I would ask the Chairman's Council of Ministers only briefly, and then I would ask for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2567	Thank you very much. Here you go. Just introduce yourself, please, and within two minutes answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2568	Okay, thanks. I am Zoran Zeljko, director of the Economic Planning Directorate, which is the state co-ordinator of the Economic Reform Programme. Respected members of the College, distinguished envoys, ministers, chairman, the Economic Reform Programme was developed in accordance with the Action Plan, which was agreed last August by the Council of Ministers together with entity co-ordinators from Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Structural reforms specific to Chapter 4 of the Economic Reform Programmes are not self-indicated structural reforms in the annual work programmes, are in the medium-term work programmes of the entity governments, ministries and the Council of Ministers. Their realisation regarding the document of the Economic Reform Programme depends on the implementation of the annual public policy work programmes, structural reforms within line ministries at the level of the entity governments and at the level of the Council of Ministers. As far as monitoring is concerned, the Economic Reform Programme has been developed according to the European Commission Guidelines, it is now available on our website, has Table 12 which shows, according to the European Commission's request for reforms, the structural reforms of Chapter 4 of the previous period. Also, as regards the external evaluation of the programme, the European Commission is issuing assembles of the programme in the fifth month, and through this asesmen it is fairly objective to see the degree of implementation of structural reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2569	Thank you very much, if you're done. Mr. Rodić, are you happy with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2570	But as I said this is very, firstly, a strategy in the next two years, and I think it touches the most huge reforms in this society if you just take a reform of the health sector, governance and energy and all the other potentials, and I've asked more questions for the public, because I think when I would be able to realize this, and I see that this has been done in collaboration with both entity governments and ultimately, and the documents adopted at entity assemblies are in favour of what I'm asking the question today. Since there is a measurable effect here and everything we will do, I, of course, because 7 has been done by the European Commission Methodology, everything will be visible and, of course, in the next period, as I said, I want an answer in writing, and this will also be a topic for future and delegate issues and I mean an analysis through Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2571	Thank you very much. Delegate Ljilja Zovko received answers in writing to a written question from the Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption, the Human Rights Institution of BiH, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, the Central Election Commission of BiH, the Commission for concessions of BiH and the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance of BiH. Is the delegate satisfied with the answers she received? Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2572	Thank you very much, very welcome to all present. Well, I got answers but they're not complete, of the seven institutions three answered incompletely, some referred to the Personal Data Protection Act, some referred me to the website to have all the data there, and some responded completely transparently as I asked. What can I conclude from everything? She has a people's saying: "Wrong escapes and no one pursues it." I think those who haven't answered me in a transparent manner are hiding something. You have institutions that introduce, I mean the question was focused on the national structure of all employees, we know that the state level on these things is sensitive and I even have examples where some new category of undefined is being introduced. I can't interpret it either, and when I analyze the list of names and last names I don't see a Hrvat, very little. Now, that was my goal, but I'm going to continue to explore, so in part, I'm not completely satisfied, but I'm going to keep asking the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2573	Okay. Delegate Sifer Podžić received a response to the BiH Council of Ministers' initiative. Is the delegate satisfied with the answer? Satisfied. Thank you very much. For the 26th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 25th session and the 4th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensation in BiH Court and Prosecutoral Institutions (first reading) – Short Procedure, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16 of 11.10.2016, with the opinion of the Finance Commission and the Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 8 3. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-33/15 of 25.01.2016); 4. Annual report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2015, issue: 01,02-08-2601/16 of 07.10.2016; 5. Report by the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016, material number: 01,02,03,08/11-05-1-2880/16 of 23.11.2016; 6. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Efficulty of the Demining System in Bosnia and Herzegovina", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-2846/16 since 04.11.2016; 7. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Activities of BiH institutions for the implementation of protection and rescue in natural and other accidents", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1284/16 of 04.11.2016; 8. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's evaluations and possibilities regarding the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union, the BiH Ministry of Security material, issue: 01,02-41-127/15 of 02.10.2015 and supplemental information: 01,02-41-1257-2/15 of 13.10.2016; 9. Appointment of members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people (rank-list of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency), material number: 01,02-29-2889/16 since 11.11.2016; 10. Considering Zika Krunić's resignation as a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, act No: 05/1,01,02-94-1-3136/16 of 14.12.2016 and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the office of a member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01.02-34-1336/16 of 20.12.2016; 11. Consideration of the resignation of Alma Čolo as a member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stay in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No: 05/6-50-13-13-12-4/16 of 16/12/2016 and the Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the duties of a member of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the foreign courts for the purposes provided for by the criminal law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the international contract of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been signed with the second law of 20.16.16.16.16. Consideration of the resignation of Vildan Đurović as a member of the BiH Appeal Office, issue: 01,02-34-1-3232/16 of 28.12.2016 and Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the BiH Appeal Office members; 13. Consideration of the resignation of Miroslav Škorić as a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01,02,05/1-34-1-199/17 of 20/012017 and Proposal for a decision on the discharge of an independent board member as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01,02-34-1-199/17 of 01.02.2017; 9 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Criminal Procedure, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-14-3180/16 of 20.12.2016; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-50-14-3181/16 of 20.12.2016; 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-14-76/17 of 06.01.2017; 17. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Proposer: Joint College of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-84/17 of 09.01.2017; 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 02-50-6-16-26/17 since 01.02.2017; 19. Request of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Houses to extend the deadline for preparing and referencing the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-50-14-1197-4.16 since 29.12.2016; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Saudi Grant for the Construction and Equipment of the University Library in Sarajevo between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-3445/16 of 02.12.2016; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on military-financial co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol on financial assistance between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Turkey, No. 01.02-05-2-366/16 of 06.12.2016; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Saudi Grant for the restoration of a number of returnees' homes in Srebrenica and a project of economic support between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-05-2-3081/16 of 07.12.2016; 23. Grant of consent for ratification of the EC IPA TF Grant Agreement No. TFOA1998 (A wastewater project in Sarajevo, rehabilitation of wastewater purifiers in Butilam) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-3088/16 since 08.12.2016; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the financing of technical assistance for wind farm Vlasic Travnik – BiH, concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the European Investment Bank and the JP Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina d.d. Sarajevo on 7 October 2013 in Sarajevo and 4 November 2013 10 years in Luxembourg (WB7 - BiH - ENE - 09/20110180) (financing agreement), number: 01,02-05-2-3089/16 of 08.12.2016. This, therefore, is the harmonised agenda of the House of Peoples. Does anyone answer for a word, does anyone have any changes and additions to the agenda? Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2574	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm interested in point nine. The appointment of members of the Governing Board of the Public Television System of BiH, namely we received from the Regulatory Agency for Communications three lists, and from this point on the agenda of the materials we have not, it is not clear whether we vote for each of these three lists separately or vote in the package, whether we vote in accordance with the order made by the RAC or, here I would like to ask for clarification. If it goes in the package, I would ask that we make a statement, to supplement the agenda point in such a way that all three lists of candidates for the Management Board are from the order of the Croatian, Bosniak and Serbian people, especially since we have a letter that we have about the conflict of interest, so perhaps it would be best to postpone this one list of statements until it is checked whether it exists or not, means in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2575	We'll vote on the College's conclusion specifically on every name so there's no need to change the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2576	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2577	Thank you. Is there anyone else involved in the changes and additions to the agenda? If not, with respect to this remark made by Mr Karamatić, we will conclude that the agenda has been adopted. And we're going to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of 25th session and 4th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the argument. No one answered. 11 We vote on the minutes of the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 15 delegates present -- for 15, without votes against and without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We are now voting on the fourth emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There were 15 delegates present -- 15 in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an ethnic majority. I agree that the minutes of the 4th emergency session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to point two, that's it, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Other Compensation in BiH Court and Prosecutoral Institutions (first reading) – Short Procedure, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2617/16 of 11.10.2016, with the opinion of the Finance Commission and the Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2580	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2581	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law if he wishes. He doesn't want to. 12 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing up, actually Mr. Sifet Podžić came forward before closing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2582	Thank you, Chairman. So, on the Finance Commission and the Budget of this House, I was against, one of the main reasons why we agreed in the Commission that all partial amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries in the BiH institutions would wait for a proposal for a new law and we would install everything there. I had in the Commission for Defence and Security, which I chaired, during the last two or three proposals this year, there was this proposal by Mr Tadić, so it was about equating the coefficients in one of the police agencies, so Mr Mehmedović's proposal was also about, uh, in SIPA equating, or increasing the police coefficient. So we had, I don't know now who from the Commission, about the coefficient of soldiers, and we turned it all down, saying that we were going to install it into a new law. I just wanted to stick to the principle that if we did it for these people, we'd do it here. If it's near the end of that law, let's put it into the law so we don't solve things partially. The second thing, since we saw it there in the Commission's materials to say that this is an enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court. When we looked at it a little bit better, so it wasn't just the Constitutional Court decisions, but it's there, although to be honest very morally and correctly, because it was working there that there was no compensation for a warm meal in their law, they got it by the Constitutional Court verdict, but at the same time to keep it, it seems to me, you regress 50% of the salary, and now don't touch it. So wait, are we expecting that they will not again, this one, invest with the Constitutional Court to be violated and we will not get involved again and again in a month, two to argue. I mean, it's moral and I totally support taking it 50% and getting it into normal procedures like everyone else, but I'm asking you -- is it possible that they won't complain again, uh, 40, 50 judges as far as they already are in the Court of Justice of BiH and they won't take it out on their colleagues, uh, to deal with the same thing again? But the first reason I had was because I couldn't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2583	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2584	Since this negative opinion says that we who voted against are answering, so is Podžić, Mr. Podžić and I, the same thing that Mr. Podžić said, I agree. So, 35 days ago, how many days ago we adopted the Budget, it's either in the process or it's going to be in the process of amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries, so in the next month when it's looked at as it is, it would be about thirty million marks that we're going to miss fulfilling our wishes, justifiable, unwarranted doesn't matter at all. For this reason, if we are to protect the budget, then we will really wait, and I have information that in the Council of Ministers there is this comprehensive law in the form of a draft, that as soon as it passes into the form of a proposal, and that it comes here so that we can really see and that someone guarantees, the Council of Ministers together with the Ministers that 13 guarantees that this budget will not be struck, if we already have some political instability that we don't have at least this financial one. As far as this story of the pincipa is concerned, I was also against it from the beginning, from white bread and beyond, for the reason that it or the commission didn't work right, has negative consequences, or when we already did something, and that was that we saved, relating to commissions, means in changes and pay supplements and commission fees, so we put it all away, we voted it out. When I only asked to, before the end of the year, to see where these savings are now, and to guide them, to share what we saved no one from that year, to get it to three clinical centres, and to help, Mostar, Banja Luka and Sarajevo, to sick children, to severely ill children, then they told me that it couldn't, it couldn't, because it's already gone somewhere through the ministries. Now, we have new ones, so this isn't within that someone saved themselves, so they're going to increase themselves, I'm aware that this is the Constitutional Court's decision in principle I'm not against the Constitutional Court's decisions, so unlike Mr. Podžić at the Club, I'm going to talk against my opinion in this sense, that this law will remain alive, that we return it to the Commission on our finances, and that we look again at the announcement of the lawsuit if we put 300 marks on how we have or all in the institutions, that they will complain and see what we're going to do with it. If we insist, and you know how to walk with judges and prosecutors, that cadiya sues you, but during that time the pravobraniteljstvo General does not, of course, invest, which should be defended by the Council of Ministers, he does not file a complaint either. So I am therefore, for this reason, to stay alive, not to go immediately today to not cancel, I will vote against negative opinion with intent, I repeat, to return to our Committee where we would call both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance and them to address us and then, in my opinion, it might be right, because it is the Constitutional Court's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2585	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. We will declare the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. We can approach the vote. So there are 14 delegates present – for it was 3.8 versus, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH -- without votes to, 8 against and 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against and 2 abstentions. The general majority does not exist, and therefore we find that Opinion is not accepted and the House asks the Commission to draw up a new opinion in view of the debate held at the House session and within the time limit set by the House. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Commission on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-33/15 of 25.01.2016) At the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, held on 15.12.2016, it passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act on 14 roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina with 21 amendments. At its 38th session, held on 30.11.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, also with 21 amendments. Since the Law was adopted in a different text compared to the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples named the Joint Commission for the Consensation of the Text of the Law: Sead Kadić, Maria Karamatić and Dark Babalj. The Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law at its session held on 17 January 2017 reached agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Joint Commission has adopted the text of the Law with adopted and agreed amendments, and is proposing to the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives to adopt this Report and adopt the unique text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At its 41st session, held on 18.01.2017, the House of Representatives adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of the identical text of the Law. I give the word to Mario Karamatić, whom the Joint Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if he wishes and wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2587	This Transport Safety Act is definitely a major step in this segment, and here I thank the Ministry of Transport and Communications for preparing it so well. In principle, it's like in the Report, I just wanted to, it may be a little unusual, but here I will thank my colleagues Kadić and Babalj for an extremely constructive approach to the topic, as you said, we have succeeded in reaching agreement and adopting common amendments. I'm saying, I know this isn't a custom, but here's a little exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2588	May you have broken the custom once. We're voting. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Joint Commission's report on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There were 15 delegates -- 12 for no votes against and 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against, with 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Joint Commission's report on both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. 15 We move to point four, that's Ad. 4. Annual Report by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2015, issue: 01,02-08-2601/16 of 07.10.2016 You have received the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People's House, the Commission has examined the Report, the Commission proposes to the House of Peoples to task the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer to the parliamentary procedure proposals for the necessary amendments and addition of relevant laws or new legislation that would properly regulate the issue of the need to publish information on property records of judicial and prosecutorial offices in the judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives at the 38th session, held on 30.11.2016, did not adopt the Report. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2590	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2591	It's like the report. I give the word to the Reporter, if he wishes. He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2592	Thank you very much. In order not to continue the tradition we do not adopt the report, and no one is saying anything, I must point out at this time, since an independent, functional and stable judiciary is important for ensuring the rule of law and progress on the path to EU accession, today when we are discussing the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council responsible for equality, indecidence, principlefulness, objectivity, transparency and impact of all processes in the judiciary of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to ask the President of the High Council about the problem of the known public, and also those who analyse, observe or participate in the judicial processes – how is it possible that an unlawful verdict can be the basis for the conduct of criminal proceedings in Bosnia and Herzegovina? In this case, I am referring to the inadequacy of Prlić and others in relation to the qualification of "joint criminal enterprise". And I'm really interested in how many criminal proceedings you have based on an inadmissible verdict, but I'm going to ask you an emissary question, according to the Rules of Procedure. Consistency in the approach of the Prosecutor's Office as regards the treatment of evidence, as regards the legal provision of a criminal offence, is a condition for the achievement of equality before the law, no consistency can be seen in the act. Example of inconsistency, no cases have been processed for crimes committed against the Hrvat in Uzdol, Travnik, Guca Gora, Buhi's house, Križančev village, Bugojno, Varesh, Kakanj, Dusina, 16 Orlista, Baškak, Stipića meadow, Capljina, Stolac, Dubarska visorvan or other cases in which Bosnia and Herzegovina's Army was the other party in conflict. Example of selectivity, charges against members of the Croatian Council of Defense are selectively collected evidence, and the events which are the subject of the indictment are observed isolatedly outside the real context of the event. Procedures launched or led against members of the BiH Army are being fought for war crimes, not crimes against humanity, although there are features against humanity, or just as the prosecution accuses members of the Croatian Council of defence for crimes against humanity and explains in the case as a crime committed as part of a systematic and widespread attack, so an example of a systematic and widespread attack is the action of the BiH Army Neretva 93, and the crimes committed in that action are not being prosecuted. So much for judicial consistency. The next non-discipline is the application of Bosnia and Herzegovina or ex-Yugoslavia's criminal laws, then categorisation of crime and sentence, i.e. judgment. I'm interested in what the criteria are in application, and we can only conclude what the criteria are if we analyze the belongings of the unit, territorial determination and nationality. I will Glasovać against the Report until the day and time of equality in the application of the law, when there is equality in the application of the law, equality in the processing and equality of judgments for the same crimes, no matter who the criminal is and who the victim is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2593	Thank you. The word has Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm more ashamed of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Court and the D.A. talking in any way, as the people say - there's a bottom cheek, they obviously don't mind it, so... no problem is there, I'll report every time they come. So, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have three vertical authorities executive, legislative and judicial and that is so in all countries on the planet, with us being one of the few countries that has so corrupt the Prosecutor's Office, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council and the Court. Here's an example that's been in the media lately, so if someone works at the grocery store, in the bar, and if the money goes out of the drawer, that worker's going to get fired. Now imagine that the evidence is making money disappear and the prosecutor is still working on the case, not to initiate a disciplinary procedure, that's one example. When do discipline procedures begin? They're on the move, so let's say in the case of the Minister of Defense when the former deputy minister, Mr. Suljagić writes an application on a napkin, after seven days, he starts the prosecution trial and normally loses it in court because it's mounted because there's no evidence, because there's nothing and all the cases are lost, and those cases that can win don't start. I will mention again, just to keep some continuity, 02.03.2016. personally in the Prosecutor's Office and to submit a criminal application against the former Minister of Transport and the communication of Mr. Slavko Matanović, I did not write it on a napkin. You'll remember the Honorable Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, all of which you claimed to be the best minister, the man who didn't make any regulations, no law, and you all looked like Kristijano Ronaldo on the football field, because he didn't do anything, and then everyone else was good. Today, when we have a new minister of transport and communication, even a respected foreign minister, who doesn't come here, fly to the opening of a road or bridge, what have foreign affairs with a bridge and roads of Bog ask, but come on. So, I filed that criminal complaint on 23 pages of the text, and I added 30 of the evidence. Is this the D.A.'s office normal or should they file criminal charges or tie my hands upside down and take me to jail for slandering a man? And I'm not slandering him, I'm that application, I knew what was going to happen, I took it parallelly to the SIPA. I received a letter from SIPA after seven days that all the allegations from the application and forwarded to the Prosecutor's Office were confirmed. So the two applications that I filed and that SIPA passed on to them have been standing there in a drawer for a year and they don't raise it, why would they raise it? A colleague mentioned war crimes trials, a very short crackdown, there's a lawyer among you I'm not a lawyer, but it's usually taken when someone's being tried for a crime, so it's also a war crime, so the law that was in force at the time or which is more favourable to the defendant. So, very simply, in all the countries in the world, in all the courts in the world, in all the prosecutors in the world, and if I say today, so I'm talking about the Bosnia and Herzegovina War Crimes Act and the former Yugoslavia Law, which we thank Bog, managed to bring down. So, the law of the former Yugoslavia is milder, predicting lesser penalties for the same act of war crime. And if I tell you that there are hundreds of members of the former Republika Srpska Army who are tried under the new law, if there are dozens of members of the Croatian Defence Council who are tried under the new law, means that there is much more rigorous punishment and that there is none, I repeat no member of the BiH Army that is tried under the new law. What's with the D.A.'s office? I'll back it up. I call once more VSTV, a disciplinary judge or prosecutor, I don't know what it is, they have these functions, they want a little more compensation to have, and we don't have the right to obviously ask them anything, I invite them to start doing their job, if I've made any mistakes, so let them arrest me, but somebody else won't pass the report again. And here I would ask the 15 of us, who sit here, is at least a little embarrassed that we allow it, which we allow against our colleagues, our fellow citizens, to lead mounted court proceedings, which, for example, works, when it was a Gibraltar affair, which was documented by Interpol, sent to our prosecution, it's such extensive documentation and to come the prosecutor, so the Austrian Interpol has documented and the prosecutor comes in in unmistakable English to bring the indictment on one page and then falls. Normally it's going to fall, the first question of who succeeded with him in German translation into English, here I don't believe he knows languages. I mean, Bosnia and Herzegovina's biggest disgrace is not like the offended opinion in the public is not politicians and political parties, ministers, the country's biggest disgrace is the High Court and Prosecutorial Council together with the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. And what's the biggest tragedy, I've already said that and I'll repeat it again, we have top lawyers, we have top judges, top prosecutors who are extremely good at doing their job, but thanks to the re-imposed decisions of high-level representatives and the international community, we don't have any chance of these lawyers, who know how to do the job, let them do their job, but that's why we have examples when a lower-ranked employee at the American Embassy is offering their services around how he's going to protect someone at the Prosecutor or the Court because he has power, because he comes from the American Embassy. And yet it's interesting, let's say, the foreign minister, it's not a threat to sovereignty that some lower-ranked chateau from one side of the embassy has an impact on the Court, has an impact on the prosecution. Now he's gonna say I'm putting pressure on the D.A.'s office, so I'm doing it and I'm doing it. And here's another call from the D.A. to either run this criminal application, which I delivered or to tie my hands upside down and take me to jail if they have any legal grounds. 18 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2595	Just one small note, it's not the DA's report on the agenda, it's the VSTV, if that means anything to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2596	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2597	Okay, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Sredoje Nović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2598	Dear colleagues, it is very ungrateful at this time to say anything about, as my colleague Karamatić would say, about the third pillar of the judiciary's power for many reasons, to refrain from heavy and serious qualifications and words about it, but it is simply amazing here for a number of years, and we are better at, here in these bodies, we are considering reports of both the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council and the Prosecutor's Office and the Court and we do not have the right to comply with the law, because the law has not so regulated, that we are adopting this, we are already receiving knowledge. What does that even mean? I don't even know what these reports are going to do here, we're going to go out on a web site, so whoever's interested will know who's not even interested in opening a website. It's just devastating to me, but it's a question for all of us, it's about relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's about Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's about political relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the authorities, but it's especially about the intentions of those who imposed these laws. What was their goal when they put such a provision so that this would not be adopted in Parliament, why? It's on one side. On the other hand, I must admit that if I were in those institutions, I would very much care for the reports to be adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because it would be a sign and a signal that the government is interested in better regulation of judicial institutions. When we look at this report here, I've made an effort to look at the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and I'm not going to read it to you, and everyone can look at it in article 17, and when you look at the report, it surprises me that a lot of pages are dedicated to the prosecution and the court, completely unnecessary. This is the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, because if we are now turning to what is written in this, among other things, made this much progress, this successful, this much improved and therefore not challenging any of it at all, I am surprised that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is dealing with this at all. I believe that you should only be aware of what the legislator has given jurisdiction, in the jurisdiction of that. About the judiciary and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, so, these months, so not to mention the years, we've heard very difficult words. Please be nice if from the BiH Court of Justice top executives say the judiciary is ruled by a judicial mafia, it's terrible. I suppose it should be an alarm for the entire government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and not just for the judicial institutions and what, does anyone ask you – give someone what is a judicial mafia, who belongs to that judicial mafia? Then he says, "We hear it's the most corrupt part of society." Well, a number of other grades they give and those who know a lot about justice, and those who know a lot less, I'm not going to say anything about politicians, because whatever they say, we don't have a whole lot of 19 to say to them, if that's what they say about politicians, I'm not going to say anything, because whatever they say, we don't have a lot of 19 to say to them, if that's what they say to the masters of this trade. And what do we get? Squealing the deficit on, in two sentences, so they don't stand behind it. It's not enough for the public either, nor will we appreciate it that way. That's what everyone, as I would say to a colleague, is that whether or not an employee takes care of it, otherwise we're really slipping into serious trouble when it comes to it. The whole public is talking about war crimes, processing, obstructions, procedures in the drawer, under the carpet, over the carpet, etc. And of course about who runs these processes, it's the task of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council when deciding who will be prosecutors in such positions to do so, that they must be both the most moral and the most professional and the most capable, and the most capable. When we talk about corruption, you see what we are, let's say, and the government and the state, in general, and the position and the opposition all the same, we all kind of call it, we make this Parliament. At some point in time, we replaced prosecutors who were being prosecuted, so don't kid yourself. Who remembers Toby Robinson and the Herzegovina Bank and the Business Bank today? Who today remembers applying against her for classic money laundering, is there anyone who remembers it here today? And there's been a report filed. Who today is talking about the grave threats to those who at that time had the strength to do so, and to this SIPA today who attacked both this and that, and to those prosecutors who were removed from there, and to the prosecutors from whom were the cases taken away that they were not concerned? And what ended? Within five days, the plane ticket, thank you. And hundreds of thousands of marks have been washed and carried away, so today we're not going to go after them, I have to admit that I don't know, I'm in another country, they won't go after me once, they won't let them go after me. What does that mean? We can't be unprincipled, and even those who are still giving a grade today, a high grade of some factors from outside, the best part of society is the judiciary, etc. etc. Let us have the strength and this Parliament must have the strength to put on the table all the laws of the judiciary and to say, together with all the top professional people it has on its back, and to say this needs to be changed, let's step forward. We've been pulling back for years on judicial reform, and here we are who we are in one way or another, not to say, just taking part in it, and as far as we're concerned, we haven't taken a step forward. We're just thinking that this big story has already gone and caught a wave, and all of a sudden we're in a situation where we haven't done anything in reform. Why? So who's the reformer, who's that responsible for? We're not going to tell the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, it's the Court's responsibility, it's the prosecution, we, we this Parliament is responsible for it, we change the laws, we pass the laws, and it's not true, let's have the strength to do it. And that's why I don't think it's even right to say it's their fault, it's our ball, we have the right to do it, so if we're going to engage and have the strength to do it now, this power either yesterday or tomorrow, it's completely that, that we understand that if we want to move forward, if we want to step forward, because we know that the judiciary is one of the key pillars of every rule of law. We want to go to Eurp, no reform agendas we've adopted, no reform of the economy will succeed, no one gets carried away with the illusions unless we have a legal state, if it doesn't function and it runs not mounted but processes that have their own bases in the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2599	Thank you very much. Just one small correction, so this report in today's agenda is not treated as information that we receive to know but as a report that we declare, the 20 that we vote on. The second question, of course, is what produces the non-compliance of the report whether it has any legal consequences, but I note that this is not information that is being received into knowledge. Mr. Halid Genjac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2600	I thank the chairman. We, therefore, have today on the agenda the 2015 VSTV Annual Report and in this Report should briefly receive information on the most significant activities and results of the work of the VSTV, but also on the Bosnian Herzegovina judiciary in the past year and this Report contains approximately those elements that have been collected in the way it has been done for years and that is the report. I am invited to intervene for some other reasons, so we have a system of justice that is very specific, regardless of the judiciary, a very clear position of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council which is extremely independent, we have judicial institutions such as this pillar of government extremely independent, we adopt reports sometimes of information, such as the Prosecutor's Office. On the other hand, we have laws and constitutional provisions, and on the other hand, laws that weigh the ethnic structure of judicial institutions' institutions, so we have cases if one or two judges in a court, municipal or cantonal, differ from the required constitutional structure, we have strong demands for the VSTV until this is fixed and we finally have the results of the ethnic structure of judicial institutions as we have seen. I think it is extremely harmful, unfounded, and I would say tendingly to declare and state that the judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina are, have an ethnic approach to dealing with certain cases, it must simply be supported by arguments, but not by arguments in a way that collects facts from one side and compares the strategies of a nation. We need to be more objective here and we need to be more careful and we need to have hearing about all the sites and try, if that argument is being made, to bring out the strategies of all the peoples, both of them and the other and the third, including the citizens. Secondly, I would say that the synchronised activity with regard to declaring the alleged ethnic approach in the conduct of the institutions of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we also have a certain group of European Parliaments and certain MPs who propose amendments to be declared in the European Parliament resolution, you can think of a different legal procedure depending on the ethnic group towards, within Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial institutions. So in the European Parliament's Resolution, the European Parliament resolution proposes an amendment that claims that Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary is acting differently depending on ethnic groups. I think it's an attempt that today was followed by some statements here in the House of Peoples, talking about a synchronised action, and I think it's unacceptable to speak in the European Parliament in this way without argument, and I think we need to be more careful, more objective and very sensitive when it comes to this. I hope, I hope, that the independent institutions of the judiciary and the VSTV and the Prosecutor's Office and the Court and other levels of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina will respond to these very dangerous and very harmful tendencies by argument. Because you know what all those who have suffered have the same rights, the extent of suffering is also a fact, the priorities of suffering are also a fact, when talking about these issues all together we have to have in mind, a one-sided approach, a tending approach, believe me, it won't do anyone any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2601	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ognjen Tadić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, after many years of politics and here in this House, I can probably conclude that these arguments that we hear, regardless of which positions, from which side, from which discourse and from which motives come, today, after having repeated themselves, are likely to have some serious significance for those people who first look at the House of Peoples session or the House of Representatives session. All those who watched the House of Peoples session last year and the House of Representatives' session had already heard them, those who were older than these heard multiple times, and for 20 and a few years there were different arguments, that is, when it comes to the High Prosecutor's and Judicial Council, that number of years during which they exist and the public who observes it asks two questions, at least two. First, if we are legislators and we are so persistently unhappy with this situation, why don't we change something? In doing so, all the nations, all the parties, changed in power, had positions, their ministers and thus the right to initiative to change something if they wanted to. Such a change has not occurred for one, I would say, difficultly understandable, frustrating, but for Bosnia and Herzegovina's characteristic reason, which is that although the general representatives of the two nations are dissatisfied in different periods of judicial work somehow in continuity, which is seen at the vote, one of the people is satisfied, and these provisions that have been imposed in time by the international community have their own vitality and are not fundamentally variable in the procedures that we put at our disposal here and no one will say that this is bad for Bosnia and Herzegovina that one people can block such changes. Or if he says he won't be understood as he should be understood. The second question, so that we don't spend any more on those words, the second question the public asks, which is – and what have you done, do you allow these people to do their job properly or deceive them, affect processes, influence objects, the outcomes of those decisions, and so on? There is now no unique truth because anyone can from their point of view, and from the point of view of their experience, to look at things. Someone from the national, someone for political, personal reasons, each has their own assessment of the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which is well related to it. Therefore, using data that came from Republika Srpska in the form of an analysis, so for the sake of public interest, I must say the following, the total budget of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council was 7,779,773 KM, where the donor funds of other states and international organisations do not enter. That's, I mean, 15 people plus some camera kid following them. In the next speech, I'm not going to go into these decimals and tiny numbers, I'm going to circle around, and I'm going to understand you, uh, to take the time. The budget of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2015 meant over 28 million marks and a total of 100 judges and prosecutors served there. The budget of the courts and prosecutors in Republika Srpska in 2015 was 61,000,000 marks, with 470 judges and prosecutors performing judicial and prosecutorial functions. So more than four times as much as the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the budget is disproportionately, therefore, smaller so as to say, smaller in nominal, higher in nominal amount, but smaller in proportional amount. In the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 48 judges were held in 2015, 5,844 cases were received, a total number of cases were resolved, taking into account unresolved cases transferred in 2015, which means that each judge was on average 22 cases in charge of 122 cases during the year. So, in the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, every judge with 122 cases. In the courts in Republika Srpska in 2015, 365 regular and additional judges served 667,412 cases. The current inflow was 211,606 items, the number of items left in earlier periods of 455,000, and a total of 253,415 items were solved. So, compared to the inflow, 120% of the cases were resolved, which means that each judge was in charge of 1,874 cases. So, in Republika Srpska, the judge is in charge of an average of 1,874 cases, and the judge, the judge of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with 121 cases. It's a serious difference, no matter what the weight of the case is and what they're dealing with. I think even that these cases at the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina are easier to resolve because so many obvious, especially in the area of criminal legislation, cases that, if individuals were not involved in politics, this one would certainly be much easier to resolve. Now, as far as the prosecution is concerned, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office worked with 53 prosecutors in 2015. In Republika Srpska, 85 prosecutors performed the post. The number of indictments filed in 2015 at the Court, at the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina 181 and at the Prosecutor's Office in Republika Srpska was 5.101. That's official data, so I'm reading from the Ministry of Justice report based on data from the High Judicial Council and other statistics. Of course, there are more or less persons, so in the case of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecution, there is an indictment against 432 people, and Republika Srpska against 6,230 people, therefore, total. The number of convictions taken by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 112 condemning, 16 liberating, with Republika Srpska 4.350 condemning, and 242 liberating. So, in Republika Srpska, if I have calculated correctly, 5% of the verdicts are acquittal, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina over 10%, more than 10%. So, statistically, when it comes to assessing the existence or existence of the underlying doubt and everything else, it's clear what it's about. As a result, one prosecutor per prosecutor, according to one prosecutor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, had an average of 3 cases. Look out, over the year, three cases. And Republika Srpska 60. Why am I reading this? I read because after this, when I read this, I can tell the public that we are as members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, whether we are in power or in opposition and whether we voted for or against the budget, from the point of view of what is our legal obligation, which is the creation of material conditions, the laws already exist procedurally, for the efficient work of courts and prosecutors at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina have done more than anyone else, but unfortunately they do not follow the results of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2603	Thank you very much. The word is Mr Dragutin Rodić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Correction of the wrong quote, I apologize. 23 Mr. Mario Karamatić. I'm sorry, Mr. Rodić. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2605	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I expected Čolak to report for the debate, since it is his area, but since I can't go over the obvious false allegations that the esteemed colleague Genjac made, it means that the judiciary, i.e. The WSTV to appoint judges according to the profession of this, that and that there is no national threat. Obviously, the story referred to the appointment of judges in Chitluk, where out of 5 judges, VSTV appointed only one Hrvat, first-ranked, and then skipped as long as it took while he appointed another Srbin and three Bošnjak. And if there is no trendy national appointment, if Mr. Genjac can name me a municipality in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has over 90% of the population census and in '91. and in 2013 the Bosniak population where there is only one Bošnjak judge, and that the four Srbin or Hrvat are I withdraw absolutely everything I said. Of course he can't lead them because that community doesn't exist. It is always over the back of the Hrvat breaking in, both in the Federation and in Republika Srpska, in the Federation of course and across the back of Srbin, in Republika Srpska through the back of Hrvat and Bošnjak, but always across the back of Croats, and if Croatian MPs have proposed amendments Mr. Genjac, you are long ago in Parliament, these are very serious people who work there and they do not speak by heart and they had data and they had it studioically and it is not only about Chitluk. There is a similar case in Zepč and so on, and so on, but if we go into a deeper debate, I expect from a respected colleague of Čolak, whose profession it is, that he should turn to me not to give an ad hoc assessment for which I am not prepared, but most of all, the fact is not yet a powerful appointment, because VSTV who has no time to discuss it, that in the majority Croatian municipality of 5 judges there is only one Hrvat and I am asking an example of any majority Bosniak municipality where there is only one Bošnjak judge, and I know that he is not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2606	Thank you very much, Mr. Karamatić. The word is Mr Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2607	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I can tell, and here is none of the delegates mentioned it, we do not again have before the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of the first man of the Council, so perhaps you would hear something, and on the other hand it is for me and respecting this high House and when discussing such a report then at least what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council can do to be represented here and to explain to us, possibly, what they are inconclusive. On the other hand, the fact is that we have been discussing these reports for years, and that is in accordance with the Law on High and Court and Prosecutorial advice, and the fact is that this House has also been making a whole series of conclusions about these reports, and if we analyze our own reports, we see that we haven't gone far, and in the end this is the Report which is a collection of statistical data, and if we were to deal with only this report then we would say, what Ognjen Tadić was saying, we would say what are facts and what it is when we look at the whole system. However, what is very important to me, and I have a feeling that we often act as a zero when we put our heads in the sand, so it sees nothing that happens around it, all of us, and I want to believe here, us 15 and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will surely stand up for ourselves and we are full of the mouth and independence of the judiciary and everything that is the division of power in modern political systems, but I am not sure that this is how and certainly a whole series of facts can confirm it. On the other hand, trust in the judiciary is very important to me, as one of the pillars of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that citizens have confidence in the judiciary, then we would probably not be discussing it this way. We can agree, we can disagree, but the fact is that we have a problem. The problem is on the one hand, and up to us how ready we are to change laws within the justice system, and on the other hand, the problem is that there are objective circumstances that do not allow it. And I'll remind you, let's make this an objective view of the state of justice that we're in, and probably, since this is the point that's coming, but here I'm going to use the European Commission's 2015 report, that's '16. The year when it comes to the rule of law and the functioning of the judiciary, where it says -- Bosnia and Herzegovina's judicial system has reached a certain level of readiness. But what is crucial is that no action plan for the implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy for 2014-'18 has been adopted. And it's already '17. Secondly, the Ministerial Conference, which includes justice ministers at all levels, representatives of the Brcko Judiciary Commission and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy. The conference was called in March, but still has not adopted its rules of procedure, which is a prerequisite for establishing technical structures, etc. etc. I wouldn't go any further on this subject, I think this is about everything, about the willingness to deal with these serious problems, and here it's not just about who's in favour, who's against, but who's determined to really create a system where we see what objective problems are and to try to solve these problems inside Bosnia and Herzegovina, with our powers and with our trust, and everything else is irrelevant to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2608	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Halid Genjac, corrections to the wrong quote, I'm sorry I just didn't see your application in time, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2609	Just to clarify, precisely because I think it is very serious and experienced people in the European Parliament, I did not expect this kind of treatment from the Bosnia and Herzegovina judiciary within the European Parliament and in this way, because it is not easy to do so. The other thing, uh, we just agreed that this issue cannot be spoken of fragmentedly, and in a way to take just one detail, because the Court of Citluk is only one frigment, such as countless courts where there are unsatisfactory demands about the national structure. But the Court of Citluk is part of a cantonal whole that is re-examining itself, so part of the federal, entity, and part of the state and so on, which we have received answers on a matter of parliamentary, delegate, where that is explained in detail. So we're just agreeing that you can't talk about justice in a way that takes a fragment out of someone's vision of what it looks like to him, but you need to be very sensitive, careful, and look at the whole. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2610	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. The word is Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2611	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I would also like to say a few words about the report on the work of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council for 2015. A lot has been said and I think that we, like this tall home, need to take care of and choose words when we talk about any institution, and I would say especially when it comes to justice. And it's not safe for everything that isn't good in our justice system to blame the High Court and the D.A.'s office. But I'd say it is in one big percentage. We are not at the height of the task when it comes to amendments, additions to the law, I mean both executive and legislative power, because there is much to fix. However, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is a body that was actually established to establish an independent, impartial and professional judiciary. That is, according to the esteemed High Court and Prosecutorial Council president in his opening statement, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council mission. Now, have we achieved and how much we have thrown in terms of independence, and impartiality and professionalism, after all, and responsibility. And all of this, in order to have the equality of citizens before the law, to have equal access to justice, to justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here, most of all, through the debate, the esteemed colleague talked about war crimes, the processing of war crimes. On the other hand, there was also an observation that perhaps it should not have been an integral part of this Report on what the Prosecutor's Office is doing or what the Court is doing. By my judgment, it should certainly be found in this report, because it is precisely, I say, and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that has only a body that has therefore, has authority, the establishment of an independent, professional judiciary. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council appoints both judges and prosecutors, and the Presidents of the Court, and the Chief Prosecutors and their deputies, and the Judges of the jury, not to list all of this well, and has also a very large responsibility when it comes to the appointment and when and when it comes to national representation. Let us not lose sight of this, for we simply live in such a state, it is a very sensitive issue and when it comes to this representation in the executive power, when it comes to representation in the legislative authority, therefore the same is true of the judicial authority. And regardless of what someone is trying to convince me from the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council that here is the basis of the work so far, and this, what they had in mind about the appointments before, uh, and in some previous period that strictly, as it says in that response that I received, respects the national structure, unfortunately it is not, it certainly isn't, and no one can convince me. But let's go now, I don't think it's right, uh, to go back to certain individual cases today, but to see what we can all do together and what the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council can do to make tomorrow better, I think that's the way to be discussed. Generally, when we look at the report, and when we read it, believe it, I don't know, at least I think if someone read it from the side, who doesn't know our opportunities, and who doesn't know what trust is and what perception of the public and our executioner is, I would say, so listen, you're not so bad. There may be in our countries, if someone on the side watches, uh, also problems in the judiciary. However, there are huge problems in the judiciary and let's not close our eyes to these problems, but let's make every effort to change that over the next period. And it is, in my court, the biggest problem when it comes to the state's judiciary, or the Court and the D.A., or the state-level judiciary, I think the biggest problem is the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I'm saying in my argument, I'm not saying it by heart, be sure of 26. There are also problems when it comes to the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has made some progress, especially in recent times when it comes to appointments, but in my court it is not close enough. We know that in the earlier period the appointment was less, and it depended on how someone answered the questions, that is, how the interview was asked, and perhaps less attention was given to what someone had done in the previous period who had already been, whether, and progressed in the judiciary, what his results were, and so on, and so on. Therefore, I think that we, aware of our responsibilities in the coming period, will also have to amend the Law on the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, amend the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. to adopt the Law on the Courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because, in my court, it is not good that there is also an Appellate Department, I think that a special, independent court should be established which will appeal to the decisions of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think we should work in that direction, that we should also change the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and simply see where those bottlenecks are, where the problems are, and especially when it comes to it, I will only go back to war crimes with a sentence or two. Why am I coming back? In fact, that question is really, uh, very problematic in our public opinion, and I think it's rightly problematic. The strategy, which was adopted, has not been implemented to address war crimes issues in 2008. The first seven years were to be solved by the most complex and difficult items, and the other 15 years by the less complex ones. And that's where the really terrible big problems came in. And by doing this, once again I will return to the Prosecutor's Office, I think that, that this does not contribute to or contribute to the necessary trust or reconciliation in our premises, I do not think it contributes to the internal cohesion of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at least to our progress towards European and Euro-Atlantic integrations. I want to believe, and I want to be optimistic that we're all going to make an effort to change things. I don't think we have too much time, too much time, and that we should simply, in this legitimate sense, make significant steps, and in any case also through these laws, promote the principle of responsibility. Everyone needs to answer and we respond to the elections, so I mean the legislative authority, the executive power is ours, and the judiciary must be responsible and answer to someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2612	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr. Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2613	What he said to his wife, he says, "Do you trust me or your eyes?" Who and I, I must replicate again to my distinguished colleague Genjac, I agree that Chitluk is just one fragment in this whole picture, and Zepce is one fragment and that none of the holders of the judicial or prosecutorial authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina are from the order of the Hrvat, but they are slowly taken over by others and it is only one fragment, but minus and minus don't give plus and these fragments kill a respected colleague of Genjac, and there is no fragment in High, Calesia, in Casin, there is no fragment when it comes to your people, this fragment only occurs when it comes to Hrvat. I am appealing, teaching to what Honorable colleague Čolak said, to begin to adhere to that, to begin to correct these things, yes, to have these fragments less and less, and to begin to build this country on the rule of law and rule of law, not by breaking someone's spine to make it good for others. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2614	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2615	Here's everything to say hello. I'm glad that there's been some discussion and some debate and some respect for lawyers who know this matter very much, and as far as the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is concerned and listening to all the distinguished colleagues today, I listened to them also last year, and last year, and those years, and that year, and that year, this is me six years here and the sixth report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and no one has changed anything here, just a little bit, a little bit of the actors change, but mostly most of the actors remain the same and we always tell the same story. Do I have the right to say anything about this, so here's the thing, man, the reason I want to talk about some 25,000 people who voted for me and expect me to say something on every matter, but I'm not an expert on this issue. I can only enter the layman's analysis of how the High and Judicial Prosecutor's Council works. And then I come to the conclusion that the people sitting in the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council are the people he chose, and the prosecutors, and the courts, so God gives me the Parliamentary Assembly, so Bog gives me the Council of Ministers, and then I can compare what Mr. Tadić said, to make a comparison with something, so I see that it's a disaster, so I can listen to my colleagues so I can see what I like, what I don't like. Now I can talk here for eight minutes my discussion isn't always long, but I can talk about eight minutes of war crimes that happened against Srbin in the city of Sarajevo, in the city where I was born, I can mention names, I can tell you reports, tip-offs that it's nothing, but that's what's been repeating for 20 years. I'm tired of that repetition and I pray to Bog that every criminal will be responsible for the crime, for what he's done. Well, then I'll talk about principle. And of course some colleagues will probably get a little mad at me for saying this. But we play politics here, we play politics. Mr. Karamatić's "joint criminal enterprise", he's skillfully saying it all, he knows there's immunity there, that this, that it, however, is not principled. How can we influence the VSTV, how can we? We can change the law, the court and the D.A.'s amendment and the law, and you know what? I did it four years ago. What kind of problems did I give them after that? I wouldn't want any of you to have them here. But I'm principled, because you and the same judges and the same VSTV are looking for an increase in something that I have to raise my hand for. I was on the Commission's abstention, and today I was abstentioned and it didn't go away. Maybe next time I'll join my colleagues, I'll be against it. And Mr. Karamatić talked about these things with respect to you, and you were Mr. Karamatić so that these same people you're talking about would get some compensation. Now we're going back to this now, so we're going back to what we just did. How someone, in your opinion, who is a joint criminal enterprise, who is this, who is this, just half an hour ago you were about to raise them some compensation for something. It's not correct, because it's not principled politics. I mean, we come to the conclusion that basically a lot of us here or here to say most of us, politicians like that, and that's my right to say it, politicians. Because out of all this, and these concerns, and these gestures, facial expressions, the state of distress in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the dissatisfaction of the Court, the prosecution, the dissatisfaction of the High Judicial Council, we are concerned, when we close this door, or when we come out, we will again be concerned next year in February of the month. It is not correct for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is us who are in politics and politics. Every fellow I value here and what I call him, here's a lawyer with this and this and this, and you've heard from one, two, three, 28, five, please use the one that's ahead of us, and that's all that you've said here, because that's what fellow Bošnjak said, and fellow Hrvat and fellow Srbin, everyone said that, so sit down lawyers and these people from the Constitutional Commission and from here, and from there, here I don't know, and let us write something about how we're going to vote as delegates to make the Saturday better and more functional VSTV, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court. Otherwise, I'm afraid we're getting tired, believe me, here's half an hour, and now it just depends on who's in the mood and how he sees who his function is, that's what I'm going to say, and now I'm going to say, a difficult qualification, and not better not to say a heavy qualification, I think those are stories that are just going to stay recorded out there and in our heads for maybe another five minutes, because then we're going to end this whole thing much more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2616	President Softić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2617	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests. I did not plan to report that I was discussing this item on the agenda, especially the more reason why I talked about this topic on the Constitutional Commission which had a really big and wide discussion about this report, what I noticed at the time and what I wanted to say in just one sentence here, is that there are indeed quite broad and I find it justified to comment to the public on the process of naming judges and prosecutors by the High Court and Prosecutors. Since I've had some personal experience on this whole subject, I have, for this very reason, and given up speaking out here today, but I've spoken very carefully and clearly to the Constitutional Commission and I think the High Court and Prosecutor's Council must take more care of that fact. The fact is, let's just say, the D.A. doesn't go through people who don't have any prosecution experience, that interns go by, etc. these are inadmissible things for me and the BiH Court of Justice, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, so if you want and participate and work in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and there should be places reserved for the country's best legal experts and that this is the highlight of someone's political, not political, but professional career. I didn't particularly expect to, nor did I have any intention of being a high court and prosecutor's attorney here today at this session in view of these views, but for that reason I just answered. I do not think that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council and the judiciary in general in this country, as one pillar of government, is much different from these other two pillars of power than legislative and executive. We have, therefore, serious problems in the work of judicial institutions, especially when it comes to state institutions, but I don't think there's any big difference in the overall state of society and everything we as a state of mind survive in terms of certain activities in the construction of the state, establishing international relations and everything else. The primary reason why I came forward for this debate is the discussion of my colleague, Mr Karamatić, who is here, of course, as a delegate and as someone who is protected by immunity for what he is saying and who is very often intrigued in his views and performances here, yet it seems to me today that I have crossed the red line and for the representatives of the judiciary, i.e. the Prosecutor's Office and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, has said one qualification that is really too difficult and that I would beg him here in some way to fence himself from her, because I, as the chairman of this sitting today, think that there is a reason to distance ourselves in some ways. You said, if I'm not mistaken here, that, that the representatives of the 29 Prosecutions, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council are a united, united criminal organization. I don't think it really fits this House or anything, I don't think there's any need to go that far. We have, of course, all the criticism of what we are discussing in the form of the report, here we have opened one, I think, quite a lot of content debate on this issue, but I think this is a bit of a difficult qualification, and I urge you in this sense to reternize your position in some way and not to remain a stain at this session today with such difficult qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2618	Here's a word for Mr. Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2619	I thank Mr. Chairman, and here's your warning, and I agree that it's a very difficult qualification, and I said it a little bit the way I said it, I said already that we have really great lawyers and it definitely doesn't apply to everything, and I have two minutes and thirty seconds left, and I'll tell you one story. Last year, a court in Mostar, so a man sued a man for making his way across his field, but this one wanted to use it and it ended up in court. And now that man who was absolutely right, the Court ruled that he was right, got it at the Court, but there were some 300, 400 marks left that it had to pay for court costs. The gentleman died in the meantime, the other widows with the children, the children were in the meantime... and with an annual interest of 12% klap, klap, klap, they raised that it was some few thousand marks of court costs to pay, that lady who was right, who had her way home across her country. And these few thousand marks were placed on the Court's advertising board by respected court employees, and that informed the public. The lady and her children were kicked out of her house a few months ago, an employee of the Court was bought at a public auction, which was also published on an advertisement board in the Court that this woman had no idea about, her house for 20,000 marks for a court dispute in which the woman was right. So that's our Court, now you qualify it as you will, and I'm saying I didn't mean all the judges, all the prosecutors, but that's how our Court works. So, you get in the process, you get a couple hundred marks that you have to pay court fees, bill tight interest, publish it on the court's ad board, take your house, the court employee buys it at auction, and throws you out on the street, that's our judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2620	Thank you very much. We are no longer registered, here is the Vice-President of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, Mrs Jadranka Lokmić-Misiračač-Missiraci, if you would like to have some, some answer after this debate. Nothing, okay. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2015.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2621	No microphone 30
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2622	Tell Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2623	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2624	We adopt, we adopt the report, I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2625	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2626	I don't know what another home is doing, we're adopting here. You can vote for it. So there are 14 delegates present – for it was 3.9 v., 2 abstentions. Federation of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2627	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2628	You are, we'll do well to repeat the vote at Mr. Nović's request. You haven't been able to vote since you broke up, have you? Okay. Thank you very much. Press 14 delegates – for 3, 10 against, 1 abstention. Federation of BiH – 3 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. Republika Srpska -- no votes against, 5 against, no abstentions. There is no general majority, and I therefore find that the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2015 has not been adopted. We should also make clear on the proposal for the Constitutional Commission of the People's House, if we need to read it again, so you know what this is about, so: The Commission proposes to the House of People to assign the Council of Ministers of BiH to refer to the parliamentary procedure proposals for the necessary amendments and additions of relevant laws or a new law that would properly regulate the issue of the need to publish information on property charts of judges and prosecutors in judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll approach the vote on this conclusion. There are 14 delegates present – for 13, without votes against and 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Constitutional Commission's conclusion has been adopted. 31 We move to point five, Ad. 5. European Commission's 2016 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, material No 01,02,03,08/11-05-1-2880/16 of 23.11.2016 You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on European Integration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission has discussed the Report and adopted the following conclusions: 1. The Joint Commission for European Integrations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly suggests that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes should include the 2016 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina in the agendas of the first next sessions. 2. The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the BiH Council of Ministers and the Directorate for European Integration to draw up an action plan for the implementation of the 2016 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina priorities as quickly as possible. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and the House of Peoples are asking the BiH Council of Ministers to continuously report the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes regarding meeting the commitments made under the 2016 Action Plan for the Implementation of Priority Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives adopted the Report and Conclusions of the Joint Commission on European Integration at its 40th session, held on 29 December 2016. I give the word to the rapporteur of the Joint Commission for European Integration at the House of Peoples session. Do we have a reporter who wants to speak? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2631	I thank you, Mr. President, for your warm welcome. So here we see that we are having a debate on all the issues, and here I am today deciding, one, not a la map, but here's to focusing my energy and concentration on this question, so here's what I'm going to try to explain why. There are several reasons, the first is because this is the European Commission's Annual Progress Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina and I will not comment on the evaluations that people in the European Commission have made on the state and progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they have a methodology, not only for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for all countries and they simply scan the situation in each country, if you follow up on the continuity of the reports and put them together, you will see that we have one precise x-ray of real relations in all areas of life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What, what are the origins of that methodology? So, it is overall progress for each... the overall progress of the country and its willingness to integrate and evaluate are, uh, what 32 are. But what's this about? This is about the fact, therefore, that here is our Joint Commission, whose conclusions you have now read, has shared the tasks of the Council of Ministers, and that's fine, but it hasn't shared with us. I think that a minimum one conclusion of the Joint Commission should refer to the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly first in harmonising the rules, because we are the ones who comply with the rules, which is one of the basic tasks on that path. And that's not what motivated me to come forward as much as here is the supervisory role of Parliament that we have completely denied ourselves, ourselves. Here we heard about this previous part where we don't even make regulations, I support you, Mr. Nović, right now... you'll have my hand to change things in that direction and start discussing, so. So the first thing here, meaning this scanned state, in real state in areas we should define what our role is, the Parliamentary Assembly, and it is therefore that we are regularly considering, modifying and harmonising regulations and making a full insight into the public about the real state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its progress towards the EU. And what's actually going on is I'm going to do it for a little while, first I'm just going to go through these grades, not question them, but illustrate them. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina has achieved some shift and results on several key issues, and this is not disputed, we know about coordination, the Coordination Mechanism, the adaptation of the SAA, the adoption of the Transport Strategy, the results of the census, the Law on Discrimination, and that is, to the facts, and we need to believe and commend this, but it is said that it has mainly not increased its own preparedness for membership. So how it will increase its own readiness for membership when those who call themselves and claim to be key actors in this country or their largest number, says more about the fact that it is not possible to break up in Bosnia and Herzegovina by peaceful means than by war. As we talk about the answers to the questionnaires, it is dominant about the public environment and how it communicates in Bosnia and Herzegovina from those who have signed the European path and said they are taking responsibility on that path. So that's one thing. The other thing I'm trying to say is what are the most pressing issues that are unresolved. Where are our entire state strategies, when it comes to agriculture, energy, environmental protection, here's all I'm asking? The largest possible space to launch this country's resources is in these areas. So, we talked about justice a little bit, I wouldn't say it again. What about reforming public administration, are we here on the trail of European criteria or on the trail of requests for full political control and in this very important, not to mention a key area? What about Sjdic-Sjdić-Finci's verdict, what about freedom of expression, what about public broadcasters, what about verbal and physical attacks on journalists? Here we swear on a European path, we are unable to regulate the charge for functioning, without talking about the structural reform of this system that can bring this Reform Agenda out in the coming years, and that is not what we are seriously dealing with. What about the election in Mostar, etc.? What about the justice strategy, '17. Is it? But look, what motivates key actors in this Reform Agenda, with full respect for the integrity and commitment of the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers and these people, to be known in public who is committed to this job. But also to be recognized, therefore, that there is a terrible manipulation of the European Reform Agenda. So I'm asking you, how many people have been employed in the public sector since we adopted the Reform Agenda, in power companies, in telecoms? So I ask us all here, by what criteria these people are employed, whether by the criteria of knowledge, ability or political likeness, nepotism etc.? I'm just asking as a question, and like you all know the answer and we know it's covered by the Reform Agenda. And we know what is going on in parallel and what is the structural state of finance in these sectors and how much resources are being launched in these sectors, that young people are also hiring, and we see what is the percentage of unemployed young people, over 70%. Excuse me. 33 So, but what we also need to talk about is, then, economic criteria. Here we are all talking, unable to present the current political spectrum in Bosnia and Herzegovina to reach a consensus on the most important issues of the Constitution, the Electoral Law, that I am not talking about reorganising the country, so let's deal with the economy to keep people, and what happens here are assessments and recommendations. So the recommendations are to improve the quality of public finances by strengthening investment that contributes to growth, better directing of social isolation, and strengthening debt management. Just one thing, and what do we do with borrowing, how many generations do we owe and what do we do with that debt? It shows – to improve the efficiency of public investment particularly related to infrastructure investment. We have here a promise of ruling that the infrastructure Corridor 5C, rail infrastructure, air, river, will be the basis for the development of the investment cycle and employment. What do we have on the table? We have a blockade of nearly 200m euros just in the south of the country. We're talking about the Reform Agenda. We've had six years of waiting to start our work on the Svilaj Bridge, six years lost. Well, I won't, gentlemen, I won't participate in the same way in wasting that time, I'm not saying I'm better, but I'm not saying it's a reform agenda and we're on the right track, at least that much I can, at least so much mugu. So, as we improve the environment for domestic and foreign investment, it's a business environment. So everyone who knows anything, and everyone knows a lot, knows that the formal integration process... is followed by the biggest turbo process of disintegration within Bosnia and Herzegovina and the fact that a real investment environment is being created. And not to talk about education, not to talk about perfection and just one more piece of information, so we're a country with a farthest percentage of separation not just for science, for education, not just in the region, amongst perhaps, perhaps in the world. And how, how we're going to, uh, be competent, how this youth is going to take place on a wider market, and how it's going to fight for the existence and foundation of a family. So I don't want to talk about these grades anymore. He would like to invite us, therefore, to assume, as on this previous issue, an active role as Parliament, not once a year, but once a month, to threaten the dynamics and content of the implementation of the commitments undertaken. The process of harmonising the law, so if it's possible that a year and something we can't adopt the Rules of Procedure on the work of this committee, so if it's possible, I'm asking us to keep our mouths shut. Really, I mean, here's our obligation, Parliament's obligation. But I can understand it, I can understand why. Because in this country you can run politics, take over instruments and power, not account for results and credibility, but eliminate those who do not accept these rules of the game and who simply give up on this country, unfortunately leave, leave and open up space to those who have been calculated at that voter rate either through those who are dependent on such authorities existentially and thus work from a cycle of 20 and a few years, and the situation is, the situation is becoming increasingly difficult. And I will clearly determine myself, I know that many are calculating with the future of Europe, that this is a legitimate issue after Bregzit, after the victory of trampa in America, after aggression, here these days, in the east, again on certain countries in the neighbourhood, this, Russia, after terrorism, after this migration explosive element across the world, that yesterday the President of the European Council Donald Tusk said clearly, those top four challenges Europe faces. But I don't think that we, as responsible people, can agree, are we a place to be in the field, unfortunately, throughout history we've always been, but we can't at least agree to such a measure of this procedure, let's make one minimum of common dignity and dignity build up. And we will only be able to build it, I am, and thus I will conclude, only as if, as legislators, we recognise the genuine possibility and willingness of Europe, regardless of all the problems it faces, to welcome us into the free countries community. Europe is the most successful peace project, Europe will survive Bregzit, Europe will agree to 34 and let us not give lessons to the European Parliament from here, and we are unable to bring the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2632	Time, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2633	Didn't I go too far, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2634	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2635	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2636	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2637	And it was worth hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2638	It was worth it, that's why we let you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2639	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2640	You've neksti us into it, thank you very much. Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2641	I think ladies and gentlemen that the EU is always worth talking about. And I will remind you all, for years, the EU has been an inspiration for various speakers in various places, and I do not seem to support Mr Raguž so much today, although I do not agree with many of his grades, but in this approach and debate on this. I also thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers who is one of the few, with Ms. Minister, from his Kabinet who has waited for this point, which I think makes it sad for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the work of this Parliament and for the Council of Ministers. I think that is why I have answered to say that this is our own fault that this role is played by both Parliament and the Council of Ministers and other bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the EU. We have brought ourselves to have a debate only and exclusively about what bureaucrats from the European Commission have written to us. The European Union is much bigger and wider than what it says here and needs a variety of new ones in Bosnia and Herzegovina to talk about it. Of course, I think that primarily about this BiH Presidency, which is led by foreign policy, must speak and tell us the rest of us where we are now in relation to the EU. It is true that for years we have yelled at the EU is, most importantly, as Mr Raguž said, in a number of things and so it is left, but is it today and in these other areas in which we have sworn. It is not and we must tell both the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is not so, that in the last 35 years, the EU has shown that human rights are being violated, the one we have all seen as a basis for human rights, that the one who has advocated the flow of capital, people and the rest have started to build fences. And that's the EU ladies and gentlemen we didn't stand up for, we've set ourselves up for the EU, you remember the praise and until the other day, we're all saying that's one of the few things that we all agree on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we're heading towards the EU. But I ask the question is it still so, is it still so after various EU moves that have happened lately, especially after yesterday's speech by the President of the European Council, which I fully interpret rather than Mr Raguž, but here to remind you that some things. For years, the EU has a poor view of Turkey, and I am sure 50% of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina disagree and cannot agree. Since last year or two years, it has a negative attitude towards Russia, which is why 30% of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens disagree. And yesterday, the President of the European Council told us that everyone in the world is against the EU, so now the United States and China. Are we going to an EU like this? I think that much has changed in the EU so that we can say cold there is no alternative anymore, and we all talked about it. Of course, we didn't make that story up. It's not what I'm saying, transitioning to Eurosceptics from Eurooptimists, and I was that, I think I'm still today, but it's a warning to one reality and the real situation is hard and we need to talk about it. That is why, at the joint session of the Commission for European Integration, I advocated that we come up with one material that is an assessment of the situation of relations and the perspective of the EU. Please, we cannot hide that half of the EU is talking about the EU's collapse, and we are not talking about it. We had a chance to look back at some of the so-called grades at the previous point. Europe about us. I think they have the right to give grades on Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they have no right to teach us lessons without us and it doesn't matter who agrees with what was adopted yesterday in the European Parliament, the day before yesterday, but it is important that they can't bring grades if they haven't asked us about it, and they're taking grades and they're unilaterally. And then one, the representatives of one nation, the representatives of the other against, and the third abstention. Well, I guess that's important for the overall security of Europe as well as for our security. Does this move from the European Commission damage security in the Balkans, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's too bad. I must say, unfortunately, that bureaucrats in the European Commission don't see that it's terrible for both of them and very dangerous for them, but this is about us, and we also have to take care of it and think about it. So the EU has changed significantly, and we still don't think it has. She continued with various arches toward various countries, including us. This report that's on our agenda today is worse and worse than the reports we had nine years ago, just the methodology has changed, so they gave us descriptive estimates. If you turned them into exact ones you'd see that we didn't get a two, but still because of the government's various moves, from the Council of Ministers, and even the entity governments in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we got a questionnaire, and nine years ago when I thought we should've got it, we didn't get it. So they didn't explain it either, they think they can say from the position of force you're right now, tomorrow you have no right and vice versa. So we have to tell them it can't be that way, if we decide something in this country if we don't just listen to what they say, we'll see where we're going and how we're going to end up. I think we need to find strength for a new view of this, we need to find the strength to see the new reality, and the current EU is a new reality, and then we need to talk clearly where and how we move on. I think that this House must also discuss this in the future, that the Joint Commission on European Integration has entered into a new kind of debate and that we will try to get to this material that I was talking about at the beginning, that we have a new state, new relations and EU perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2642	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. ...to the wrong quote or I don't know what, Mr. Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2643	I have to press that, and, uh, I think I'd better say the clarification of one of what Mr. Radmanović said. I absolutely accept, therefore, that this is a new reality, uh, what you said, but also, uh, that, in the world's geopolitical circumstances, this new reality doesn't mean for me that tomorrow there will be no Europe as part of the world, here's what I wanted to tell you. So she's not on impact by accident and it wasn't Donald Tusk who said it yesterday and look who she's hit with and what are the first ones to hit that Europe. What are the measures, here's yesterday's attack on Ukraine strengthened, and the ban on entering America as much as for, here's just to illustrate. And in fact this report would, however, I've tried to come from what our responsibility is and put it in context and I agree that it's legitimate to discuss what Europe is, but I don't always have alternatives, but I think we should be focused on what we should do to make it better in partnership, not idealizing, of course, Europe, I think it's still the best option for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2644	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Ognjen...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, on, in my opinion, an unusual approach to the debate on this subject, I have to act unusually and react. So I got the impression that at this point we're writing a report on the EU, so in the sense that we're now saying whether the EU has a perspective, had an assessment of the situation, etc. and in fact, we have a report from the EU on us. Now, it doesn't matter what you're talking about, on the contrary, it's extremely important, it's a strategic issue, but it's not on the agenda. So, this discourse that can be taken always, so he certainly won't ignore the fact that no elections have been held in Mostar, and as a problem here, he can't ignore the fact that when it comes to the economic criteria of Bosnia and Herzegovina still at an early stage of the development of the functional market economy, and for 27 years there is how we left one system. He will not ignore the fact, as it says here, that there are no established procedures for sanctioning... influences and threats when it comes to judicial independence or that, on the other hand, very loose rules on property reporting require some kind of financial report to be delivered by judges and prosecutors, but there is no mechanism for their publication and verification, etc. etc. etc. Now, if we need to solve some previous question, some previous question, then maybe the timing is affected, but in thematically, so I don't think we've hit that timing. Why am I giving this to myself for the right to say? Because I belong to the number of people who have never ideologically observed the relationship with the EU unlike the many who have replaced one ideology with another and, as they have said, lived in that and that party, they said they lived in the EU. So, for me, the EU has never been a question of the need to establish a new ideology that would serve to survive in power, but precisely what the problem is here, so it does not work for the judiciary, there is no control, no non-disciplined influence, no market economy, etc. etc. etc. 37 Believe that my strain of men has accepted as a minor evil not to argue with those who took Europe as an ideology, just so that at least they girlsaclyse themselves and they plead for some kind of value system, so not ideological but valuable, social. And now we have a problem with, look, they're not doing it right now, I guess because that's no longer the way to stay in power over it. So, no good ideology, let's look for someone else, so we're going to turn to, uh, someone less or more east, near or far east, because maybe it'll go better with the people and get the authority of those who run on the basis of votes, and here it can be said by good measure, delusions or frauds won by the people. So it's not that people, it's not healthy, it's no longer a question of whether it's fair, whether it's acceptable, whether, well, it's not healthy people. Well, it's not the state, it's not the point of turning left and right, depending on where the wind hits. So, if a strategic decision has been made that this space, the defined space of Southeast Europe, has found its destination in a new region, for us new or in perspective, this one, we will be some new member who in the multi-polar division of the world represents one of the regions next to Russia, next to the American region, next to China, next to the Iranian, or Middle Eastern, Arab, etc. Now there's an EU that we belong to, are we going to now that they're talking about us and our problems to ask if this region will exist? Well, if we decide that, I don't see that we do. But I don't see this kind of still need to be watched ideologically and that no matter what problems come from there, that we say that it doesn't matter everything is great. Not everything is great, here we have a situation with the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, where Mr Radmanović and I and some other colleagues fight against the abuse of European legislation. We have a man who says I am Europe you are not, called like you, a last name like you, his country recently entered the EU there, but he thinks that the EU has entered his country, not his country in the EU. So if there were such interventions, which want to put us in a worse position than the one we're in, then let's join together as Srbin and as Bošnjak and as Hrvat on that issue and everyone else, try to defend the space we live in, for some country, it's country for some country, it's for some space, but there's at least for a while, uh, while we're, I don't know, here we're destined to stand. So let's try to look at it differently, change the discourse and defend ourselves against abuse and deal with those issues that are really our problem, not treating it as an ideology of any issue related to European integration, because it would, by my deep conviction, be like a man who, among other things, comes from a family that has never been ideologically set up, therefore, represent a mistake and lead us to some new delusion that we've been going on for 50, 60 years, wandering there, here, looking for his place in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2646	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegations, Mr. Nebojša Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2647	I think it's more of a replica, but that's how I pressed the button, so it looks like the wrong quote. I thank Mr Tadić for commending one part of my debate, although then he said it was not on the agenda, and his entire debate was later on, rather than on the agenda. 38 I must say that I still think that we must hold a debate on the state, relations and perspectives and that is confirmed by Mr Tadić with some of his allegations. Of course, it will also be necessary to avoid such stories now used by Mr Tadić, which are entirely incorrect. The EU is not ideology, it has never been, nor could anyone understand who understands anything about it like that, whether a new or an old failure was attempted behind the idea by the EU, which is another issue that can be specifically discussed. But I think it is important to distinguish this story that the EU is not ideology, but one part of the world's most developed to whom we have justifiably sought. But that's why I asked the question, is she what she was today when we all identified ourselves, a few more examples, could talk more about it, showed me that she's not what we've defined. And that's why, without prejudged assessments, I think it's important that we discuss on the basis of broader arguments on the situation and on the perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2648	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2649	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, I need to say something about this important subject. I don't know how much time he's got available, but I won't really talk for long. Before I say anything in particular about the 2016 report of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like to remind the distinguished representatives of the House of Nations of a few facts you know yourself, and this is primarily a statement by the Presidency and a joint statement by all the parliamentary parties of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the full commitment to the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the willingness to work symbiously and synergisticly on all those activities that will dynamic the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, it was signed by 3 council members, 3 members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency, adopted at the Council of Ministers, signed by parliamentary party presidents, and then adopted by the highest legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the Council of Ministers, and as far as I know, also on the basis of the policy of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our most important foreign policy and every other objective remains a membership in the European Union and all our programmes are dominantly focused, of course, towards the realisation of this important objective. Furthermore, we need to find out and the relevant data show that 2016 was the most successful European year in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the moment Bosnia and Herzegovina began to walk the European path, which was in 2000, so in the last 16 years, 2016 was the most successful year and it realised what many in the beginning of '15. They felt that it was Utopia and that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina would not succeed. So, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina together with entity governments and other levels of government have managed to implement the three very complex conditions of the European agenda of Bosnia and Herzegovina since the credible implementation of the Economic Reform Agenda, the adoption of the Protocol at the SAA and the Coordination Mechanism, which confirmed the credibility of the submitted application from early 2016, it was adopted and we received the questionnaire as one of the most demanding stages on the path of European integration. I can inform you that almost all institutions have answered the questions that we have provided to them, and we expect answers from the government of Republika Srpska, so we will go to the next stage to use the mechanism, the instruments of Mechanism 39 coordination prepare unique answers in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the European Commission. I would like to say that the report should be viewed as an integral document, it should not in any way be read selectively according to the glass method is half empty, and should only list those elements from the Report in which the European Commission has found that sufficient progress has not been made in the area, in that area, or in that sector. So, it should really be viewed as a single full document and it would certainly be extremely correct to say that the report itself found that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina continued to deal with very credible economic reforms, that the particularly positive assessment of the co-operation of the Council of Ministers and entity governments on the implementation of a number of measures from the Economic Reform Agenda, that we have implemented more than 42% of the measures in 18 months, which is huge progress, given that reforms are very painful and that they change existing behavioural matrixs, that the report found that the election process has been improved, that, a large number of OSCE recommendations have been respected, that progress has been made in the establishment of institutions and mechanisms for co-operation between governments and the civil sector, that long and financial discipline strategies have been achieved, that there has been a significant number of recommendations of OSCE recommendations in terms of human rights, which are particularly important in terms and in terms of security, which are particularly important in terms of security, and in terms, especially in terms of general, and in terms of security, which are greater than in terms of security, and in terms. I remind you that the ratio of total debt and GDP in Serbia is greater than 75%, and in Croatia 86%, Bosnia and Herzegovina remained below 42%, that exceptional trade integration with the European Union has been achieved, as more than 70% of our exports go to European Union countries, which speaks of the quality and competitiveness of our products. Export growth in the last year was 4.8% and was reduced by the external trade deficit, that we had significantly prepared ourselves in the area of customs and taxes, that we are very close to membership in the World Trade Organisation, that progress has been made in the areas of industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, food and veterinary safety, phytosanitary policy, that the National Plan for Renewable Energy, the National Plan for Gas Reduction, that the Transplatna Strategy was adopted, and so on. So, there are many very, very positive findings in this report and it is certainly the best report for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last 16 years, because it is difficult to compare the initial reports when Bosnia and Herzegovina had almost no tasks ahead, and these reports when we enter even the mature stages of certain European processes. Of course, in the Council of Ministers, we are aware of certain requirements put forward by the European Commission in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this Report, we have adopted the Action Plan for the Implementation of Measures and Recommendations from this Report and these measures and recommendations are part of the programme of work of all ministries, of all agencies, and of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am quite sure that many of the recommended measures or specific guidelines will be respected and that the next reports, which will no longer be in this form, will be general for the region, but will be very, very high quality. Of course, there are also those sectors where progress is expected, we can't hide it, there's no need, I personally think, and it's also found here, that the biggest reform, one of the most complex, complex reforms, is waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a reform of education where unfortunately not enough works on those levels of government that are in charge. Our education, knowledge and skills with which high school students come, students are not in line with the needs of the labour market, are not in line with the needs of the economy, and in this sense reform of 40 education and innovation will be one of the major reforms that we will have to implement in the next period. And at this point, one of the biggest objections in the report was just about media freedoms and the fact that the issue was not adequately resolved by public TV, TV services and that certain progress is expected to be made in this regard the information skills of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. Therefore, I call on, indeed, the esteemed and esteemed representatives of this esteemed House, together with the Council of Ministers, to continue to work synergyly to realize the activities that lead us to the accelerated dynamics towards the European Union. To become a member of the European Union means to establish in Bosnia and Herzegovina very high-quality, very transparent and very clear procedures and systems, to adopt the legal gain of the European Union, to become part of a single and market, both economic and social, and political, and cultural space of the European Union, i.e. to provide real and true prosperity for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially for young people. Of course, we expect that very quickly, you saw this in the last discussions, the European Parliament will also adopt a regulation on the establishment of a parliamentary committee between the European Parliament and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This would significantly increase our ability to properly place ideas and conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but here, very serious progress has been made, new challenges are ahead, very difficult processes, one of them is the Questionnaire, after which lobbying and obtaining candidate status. Once we get the candidate status, a whole new chapter will be opened in relations between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina that will mean new funds and new, new benefits. I also thank you for your support so far, and here I say we expect that such support will be present in the follow-up to our cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2650	Thank you, Chairman. We are no longer registered, I will conclude this debate and I will propose to you in accordance with the position of the College, so in a procedural sense, the House of Representatives voted on this report and put it up for adoption. We, as the College, have assessed that there is no need to vote on the report made by the European Commission, but there is a need to make clear on the conclusions of this Joint Commission on European Integration. So we will conclude that we have received this report and put it to the vote Conclusion No 2 and Conclusion No 3 on the statement, given that Conclusion No 1 has already been realised by the fact that this is included in the Agenda of today's sittings. We can approach the vote. There were 14 delegates present – there were 14, no votes against, no abstentions. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the conclusions of the 2 and 3 Joint Commission on European Integration have been adopted. 41 We move to point six, Ad. Six. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Efficulty of the Demining System in Bosnia and Herzegovina", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-2846/16 of 04.11.2016 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House to adopt the report. The Commission has adopted the following conclusions and proposes to adopt them to the House. 1. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Commission for the Demining of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Centre for Mine Removal in Bosnia and Herzegovina to report within 60 days to the Commission for Finance and the budget of the People's House on planned activities to implement the recommendations from the Report and within 6 months on the activities undertaken to implement the recommendations and to meet the Office for Auditing Institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. It is necessary for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina referred to in point 1 of this conclusion to provide information in a table view in a way that clearly indicates the name of the report's recommendation, planned, i.e. the activities undertaken to implement the recommendation, the operators of the activities, the time limits for realization and the degree of realization – realised, partially realised, the realization in progress is not realised. In this case, it is necessary to specify the reasons why the recommendation is not implemented. The House of Representatives is at 40. Session, held on 29.12.2016 adopted Report. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of People, if she wishes. As in the report, here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2652	Well, here, I'm obliged to explain a little bit because we asked the College to, uh, address the committees that, which are touched by this topic, for example, the Security Committee, because it's about demining. So I just want to say to this occasion that our conclusions are really, what, concrete because in this case, it's about an impact review, a subject that is heavily burdened by corruption and that every one of these, this one, should simply apply, and that it never repeats itself again, and that, in future, when the impact review comes, it will give more commissions, not only to the Committee on Finance, but also to the subject that touches, even all commissions should read the impact review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2653	Thank you very much. Reporter if he is present and wishes to address. No, I don't. 42 I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We voted on the report on the executive impact review on the subject: "The effectiveness of the demining system in Bosnia and Herzegovina". There were 13 delegates present – 10.1 against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the report on the executive impact review on the subject: "The effectiveness of the demining system in Bosnia and Herzegovina" is adopted. We are voting on the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House. There were 13 delegates present -- for 13, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Nations have been adopted. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Activities of BiH institutions for the implementation of protection and rescue in natural and other accidents", material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01/4-16-1284/16 of 04.11.2016 You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the reports and proposes to the House to adopt the report. The Commission also adopted the following conclusions and proposes to the House their adoption: 1. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministry of Defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina to report within 60 days to the Committee for Finance and the Budget of the People's House on the plans for the implementation of the recommendations from the Report and within 6 months on the activities undertaken for the implementation of the recommendations, and to meet the Office for Auditing Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. 2. It is necessary for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina referred to in point 1 of this conclusion to indicate clearly the name of the report planned, i.e. the activities undertaken to implement the recommendation, the operators of the activities, the time limits for implementation and the degree of realization, in terms of realised, partially realised, the realization in progress, not realised, in which case it is also necessary to specify the reasons why the recommendation is not realised. The House of Representatives is at 40. Session, held on 29.12.2016 adopted Report. Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, has a word. As in the report. 43 The Reporter shall have a word if he is present and if he wishes. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Ljilja Zovko didn't answer? It's not. Okay. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The activities of BiH institutions to implement protection and rescue in natural and other accidents". 13 present delegates – for there were 10, without votes against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The activities of BiH institutions to implement protection and rescue in natural and other accidents", adopted. We are voting on the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the People's House. The vote was attended by 13 delegates – for there were 13, with no votes against and no abstentions. Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina – 8 for, without votes against, without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 5 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions. General majority yes, entity majority yes. I find that the conclusions of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Nations have been adopted. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's evaluations and possibilities regarding the refugee crisis in the region and the European Union, the BiH Ministry of Security material, number: 01,02-41-1257/15 of 02.10.2015 and additions Information: 01,02-41-1257-2/15 of 13.10.2016
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2657	No microphone 45 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2658	Ten minutes break on behalf of the Bosniak Club, Mr. Halid Genjac. We'll be back in ten minutes. [[PAUZA]] I suggest you take your seats, 10 minutes break is over, we have a quorum. Moving to point 9. – Appointing members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television Service Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people (rank-list of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency), material No 01,02-29-288916 since 11.11.2016. Given the fact that the term of office of appointed members of the Board of Directors of BHRT expires on 10.12. The BiH Communications Regulatory Agency Council has launched a competition for members of the BiH Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people in line with the proposal for a list of successful candidates. Today, we should declare the appointment of members of the BiH Public Broadcasting Service Management Board. He adopted the House of Representatives on 29 December 2016, appointed members of the Management Board of the Public TV Service Mufid Memi from the Bosniak people, Zoran Krešić from Croatia and from the Serbian people Dejan Radovanović-Radovanović-Šarenac. I've read this a little bit again to gather enough MPs here. We opened the debate, Mr. Genjac asked for a break. Here you go, Mr. Genjac, if you need anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2660	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2661	We agreed, then we should, if there's anyone to argue yet, if there is. There isn't. Mario, there's Mario. I see I'm missing something.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here I initially asked to vote separately on the lists, and I asked for the reason that Mr. Emir Hadžimuratović, who was first-placed candidate on the RAK Council's ranking list, sent an objection that we absolutely all received that he stated was a classic conflict of interest, even states the views of the law under which it is, in fact, under which Mr. Mufid Memija is in conflict of interest. And I'd ask if we won't go to a vote especially on the lists delivered by the RAC, then we'll take this item off the agenda until we get an indication of the RAC or the Commission's conflict of interest, just so we don't get in a position to appoint someone who's going to have to resign or be replaced or anything, so I personally don't have any emotions, I don't know any other gentleman. And on the other hand, we've had a little bit, we've had this ad hit committee to appoint various committees and urethra and commissions and it's always named after rankings, so if we're already paying the Regulatory Agency for 46 communications, if it's already put together some of its ranks from successful candidates, I think it should be respected. Of course, if it's a political decision, and I respect it, but then you have to be clear to the end and say it's for that and that's why, that's why you and these parties, and then I don't see the point of having a public tender, of people taking out documentation and sending it out, then we can just split up between ourselves and put, for example, an ad in the Daily Avaz and say here about this and that position you should contact that and that party headquarters. So that, in my opinion, would be something, a moment ago on the occasion of the debate on the report of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, we said that we should put it back into the frameworks of the law, the positive legal regulations, etc. and so on and I'm saying I wouldn't go into voting at all until we get an indication whether this gentleman is in conflict of interest or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2663	Thank you. Mr. Halid Genjac has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2664	Thank you. This question which has been opened and justified should be opened since we have received all of this written correspondence to which all those who have applied legitimately are entitled. However, I think, I think the thing here is quite clear and there is a very clear answer. Namely, the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH in Article 26 point 1 of Article 1 (1) says – The Parliamentary Assembly shall appoint members of the Management Board from the ranking of candidates who entered the narrow list, in the following text of the rank-list provided to it by the Regulatory Agency within 30 days of the delivery of the ranking list to the Parlamometer Assembly, etc. etc. It says there, that the Regulatory Agency continues to implement a fair, open and transparent process of elections, taking into account the standards and deadlines prescribed by the Ministerial Names Act. Therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly appoints from the rank-list not in order but in the rank-list and it is already a practice that has been repeatedly seen and repeated. Another thing that was more serious, which caused attention and was called upon by this person, the person who applied and who called for a violation of Article 26(2). Article 26(2) states that, for the members of the Management Board, the holders of functions in the legislative, executive, judicial, political party bodies, employees of BHRT, RTFBiH, RTRS and co-operation and, as well as corporations, and employees of other companies carrying out radio and television broadcasting activities, including agencies collecting RTTV fees, members of their administrations, supervisory boards and... perform etc. The Parliamentary Assembly has the power to decide on the resolution of members of the Management Board, so Article 26(2) to which the objector has called. What is relevant to us in this respect is the following and in terms of the expectations of the Council of the Regulatory Agency whether it is a conflict of interest etc. So we have this conflict of interest, especially for a member of the board of directors of the RTV service, and we have the Law on conflict of interest that treats and in which there are no these provisions, besides this man, that is, the gentleman who objected called for a member that I just quoted. What is important about this is that the Board of Regulators of the Regulatory Agency, in a letter to us, provided where there are biographies, documentation and all of those relating to candidates, stated the following after the Council of the Agency has determined which applications of candidates are timely and complete, i.e. meeting 47 formal legal conditions as well as the conditions laid down in Articles 25 (2) and 26 (2), which relate to conflict of interest, the Law on Public TV Service, in the sense that they are nationals and that there are no prescribed obstacles to the appointment, and in accordance with standards and deadlines and the Law on Ministerial Names of Ministers, etc. and other appointments by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of the Agency conducted an interview with 13 candidates at its headquarters on 18 and 12 October 2016, so all those who meet all these conditions and where there are no recommendations to which applications have been met and... and that is 13 candidates whose applications have met those conditions and those 13 candidates are listed. Of the Bošnjak three, of the Hrvat five, of the Serb nation five candidates. Among the candidates who meet all these conditions for which there is no presupposal and for which the Board of Regulatory Agency is competent and obliged to determine whether there is an obstacle to the Law on the conflict of interest and the Law on Public TV Service and to establish that there are no obstacles... in accordance with its legal competences and obligations, we have a clear situation regarding this, therefore there is no conflict of interest here in the sense of the Law on TV Service, and even in the sense of the Law on Conflict of Interest. It could be at a point in time under the Law of Conflict of Interest if a person appointed to the Management Board would be in charge of a business agency and a company that has a business with a tv service, then it could be. And before any of the companies worked until someone was on the Management Board, it's not relevant for conflict of interest, so it could be a conflict of interest in case someone continues, if someone works in some company business with a tv service, and at the same time a member of the Management Board. What is more important, the candidate who is from the Bosniak peoples' ranks has been elected, i.e. mostly voted at Mr Memija's House of Representatives, signed a statement, issued a notary certificate stating that he removes all of these possible obstacles to the appointment and rejection of the possibility of conflict of interest, as in that statement certified by the notaries, says - I am not an employee of BHRT, on Federal TV, on RTRS, as well as in a public corporation, or in any company that carries out the activity of tv broadcasting, including agencies that collect RTTV fees, or I am a member of supervisory and administrative bodies, or I carry out tasks on the basis of which could come into conflict of interest. All that was prescribed by law, he attached, signed, as mentioned in the law as a possibility he signed the notary and he therefore, the Council of the Regulatory Agency established the state and facts, has also this document of his signature and as far as our situation is concerned is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2665	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Mario Karamatić, has a wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's if he's going to remember Božo Petrov's statement at the notaries that he's not going to co-ordinate with either HDZ or SDP in the Republic of Croatia, so today he's the president of the Parliament and he has his ministers. So it's not exactly the weight of a certified notary statement, now the question of whether the gentlemen at the Regulatory Agency had all the information. Because, namely, there's a company called Photo Art that's her director of Gordan Memija, and the production director is Mufid Memija. This company Photo Art has been selling the BHRT "Knowledge Society" for years to which it pays them neatly, and Mr Mufid Memija once a month does an independent interview with significant persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina for whom a 500 KM fee is paid on the show and it also gives BHRT. My opinion is that this is about conflict of interest, and I would ask here again, 48 of course there is always the possibility that we should vote to vote, to wait here in mind and these indicators to wait for the report or the Regulatory Agency for Communications after they get this information or already who decides whether it's a conflict of interest. Because we already have a public service that operates absolutely illegally, it's a federal television that the board of directors has long expired, which has no board of directors at all, which plays porn films in the time when cartoons for youth should be played. The regulatory agency isn't exactly that special, as far as I've seen it, so explicit scenes of sex with pregnant women at 9:00 p.m. until the kids are asleep. And now if we're going to go in the direction of doing it from BHRT, I'd rather not, I'd wait for us to get the relevant opinions, and then we'll decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2667	Good. Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Ognjen Tadić has the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I don't have enough space here to identify ourselves according to this question in a way that could determine the course of this session by changing its course, for the simple reason that it is now a series of allegations that were obviously not the subject of this Commission's work that tried to reach these names. In particular, it would be incorrect if because of manipulation, if it exists, so the other two members proposed, people who are obviously not controversial on any basis have a problem with their choice. On the other hand, the House of Representatives' decision is done in a package, it kind of models this decision itself, and we have long discussed whether to get out of this in another way, it's obviously impossible, because then it's making three different decisions compared to one previous one, so other questions are being raised. There is only one solution here that I am sure of, I will be happy and Mr Karamatić, this, and that part of the public that agrees with me, which is that we make the decision that we need to make on the Commission's proposal, so if we are for or against it, you will, of course, determine it yourself, and when we make that decision, that is, the joy of Mr Karamatić, the certification of a false statement and the delusion of the body that has been acting in this procedure is a criminal offence, there is another criminal complaint that you will make to the court, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and that Mr Memija is responsible for that. So now we're not taking care of whether or not he did this or that, because it's still not about the obvious facts, nor are we in a position to interpret this in a relevant way. We are in a position to accept or reject a decision. I am convinced that you will vote against her for the reasons of these two other members or three someone will vote for, but we will have a decision today, and you will immediately report criminally, fold the tab, and let the man answer if, and of course he will be replaced, but then it is to his shame, not this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2669	Just don't get on the napkin, Mr. Halid Genjac has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2670	The notary statement in this sense has a very specific meaning and therefore I cited it, a notary statement between political parties and this universal relationship and relations between me at this 49 moment is not interested, but the notary statement by candidates in terms of the law, in terms of what is needed here is very relevant. At the same time as a statement that is subject to criminal processing if it is false and incorrect and therefore I think that, in view of both the state and the needs of all those who should have done the job with regard to establishing conflicts of interest and formal conditions, they have done their job. The Council has been authorised by law, the Commission has done its job, and the Vijah Regulatory Agency has strictly laid down by law and done so in accordance with the law. All those who have done this job state that they have established it, done it carefully and established the facts, no more institutions that should determine the facts, no longer exist. And I'm in favour of according to what's before us today being delivered as facts of relevant and competent institutions to finish this job. Of course, if someone's here to manipulate and anything else, we have all the elements to process.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2671	All right, it's all clear about this. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the appointment of Mufid Memija as a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board. We will glasati as agreed at the beginning individually on each candidate. You can vote. There are 12 delegates present – for it was 7.2 against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 5 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have appointed Mufid Memija as a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people. Did you, Mr. Genjac, make a mistake here, did you?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2672	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2673	Okay, it doesn't change things. We can't do it again. We vote on the appointment of Zoran Krešić as a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Croatian people. There are 12 delegates present – 9 were in favour, 1 versus, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 for, without votes against and with 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree that we have appointed Zoran Krešić as a member of the Management Board of the Public TV Service of BiH from the Croatian people. We vote on the appointment of Dejana Dejana-Radovanović-Šarenac as a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Serb people. There were 12 delegates present – 9.1 against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 for, without votes against and 1 abstention. Republika Srpska – 2 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. The general majority exists, there is an entity majority. I agree that we appointed Dejan Radovanović-Šarenac as a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board of the Serbian people. 50 We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Considering Zika Krunić's resignation as a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, act No: 05/1,01,02-94-1-3136/16 of 14.12.2016 and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the office of a member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, issue: 01.02-34-1336/16 of 20.12.2016. Žiko Krunić resigned as a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure on 14 December 2016. At the 40th session of the People's House, held on 29.12.2016, he discussed Zika Krunić's resignation and set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the duties of a member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police strukut. At its 40th session, held on 29 December 2016, the House of Representatives adopted a Decision on the discharge of Žika Krunić as a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of BiH's police structure. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Darko Babalj, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2675	So what I'm going to say now is more for the public, one and the correctness of one, because then I don't know now whether' 14th or 15th item of the agenda is the same resignation of Mr. Škorić, and if we are consistent, there will probably be more resignations from the independent committee of the Croatian and Bosniak people, because they will also be the subjects of the Commission of conflict of interest. So, just to tell the public that there is a process against Žika Krunić and Mr Škorić on the conflict of interest and the Commission for Conflict of Interest, according to my information, has found that they are in conflict of interest. And the inaccuracy here in this case, Žika Krunić, and later I will say to Mr. Škorić, who they will skillfully abuse in the public tomorrow, that they have resigned because of the systemic obstruction in the competent authorities to determine responsibility for the attack on the Serbian Prime Minister who took place at the Potocari Memorial Center in 2015 with the day, with today's day, I am filing an irrevocable resignation on membership of the Independent Committee, and here is the day that you see already which is worse. So let me just say that Mr. Žika Krunić because of this obstruction he's talking about was supposed to resign a year and a half ago, not when he came into a position of conflict of interest, or when someone reported him for conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2676	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. I'm closing the debate. 51 We vote on a proposal for a decision to resolve the duties of a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure. There were 12 delegates present -- 12 for no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and without abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find the decision to resolve Žika Krunić's duties as a member of the Independent Committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure has been adopted. Moving to point 11. Ad. 11. Consideration of the resignation of Alma Čolo as a member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stay in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No: 05/6-50-13-31-12-4/16 of 16/12/2016 and the Proposal for a decision to resolve the duties of a member of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of residence in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the foreign courts for the purposes of criminal law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or of the international law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been signed in accordance with the second and of 20.16.16. Alma Čolo submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on 8 December 2016 to resign as a member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Court's criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for the crimes provided for by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Criminal Law or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law. At its 40th session, held on 29.12.2016, the National College discussed Alma Čolo's resignation and set out a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Independent Commission. At its 40th session, held on 29 December 2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Decision on the discharge of Alma Čolo as a member of the Independent Commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to relieve a member of the Independent Commission. I hope you understand who this is about. There were 12 delegates present -- 12 for no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find a decision on the discharge of Alma Čolo from the post of member of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by a 52 international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to point 12. Ad. 12. Consideration of the resignation of Vildan Đurović as a member of the BiH Appeal Office, issue: 01,02-34-1-3232/16 of 28.12.2016 and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the office of the BiH Appeal Office
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2680	I will briefly, so that there is no dilemma, I have no material here whether Mr. Škorić resigned for moral reasons of obstruction against this situation that happened in Potocari or he did it because of conflict of interest. I just don't have that paper. I asked my colleague, he doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2681	It doesn't change things, we move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2682	Nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-01-0.u2683	Let's move on, I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a decision to resolve the duties of a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure. There were 12 delegates present -- 12 for no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and without abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find the decision to resolve Miroslav Škorić's post as a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH's police strukut. Moving to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the treatment and respect of the human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-50-14-3180/16 of 20.12.2016 You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the conduct and respect of the human rights of persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law. At its 40th session, held on 29 December 2016, the House of Representatives adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission, which was appointed by MPs: Sadik Ahmetović, Predrag Kožul and Borislav Bojić. At the 41st session, held on 01.02.2017, the National College established a proposal by members of the Interim Joint Commission: Ognjen Tadić, Sead Kadić, Mario Karamatić. 54 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the draft conclusion to the vote. There were 12 delegates present – 12, no votes against and no abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and without abstentions. Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Stays in Institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which we have appointed Ognjen Tadić, Sead Kadić and Maria Karamatić from the House of People. Moving to point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to implement the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-50-14-3181/16 of 20.12.2016.
