ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3130	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests are invited at today's session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, here, which I welcome, the Central Election Commission, also, the BiH Export and Credit Agency, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House. Here, once again, welcome back to everyone. At today's session there are 13 present, but there will be 14 envoys, we expect Mr Genjac to join us at any moment, so there will be 4 members from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, for justified reasons, is not able to attend the session today. As indicated in the call for a session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, the envoys will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I would like to remind you that together with the invitation to the 31st session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegation questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the representatives of Sredoje Nović for the Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH, Mr Adil Osmanović; Ambassador Zdenko Džambas for the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, Mr Šarović; Ambassador Dragutin Rodić for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić; Ambassador Mario Karamatić for the Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH, Mr Crnadko; Ambassador Martin Raguž for the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Zvizdić; Ambassador Sead Kadić as Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Zvizdić. I note that these announcements for asking parliamentary questions were addressed at the 30th session of the House, held on 30.06.2017, however, due to the lack of representatives of the ministries to whom questions were referred to that House session, we referred them again so that the envoys could receive an answer at the 31st session of the House. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the announcement was delivered to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and to the member of the Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television Service in order to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session, and in accordance with Article 155(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Sredoje Nović. Mr. Nović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3131	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My question is addressed to the Minister of Civil Affairs, i.e. the Agency for Identification Documents – at what stage is the building for the installation of the Agency for Identification Documents, Records and Data Exchange of BiH in Banja Luka? Has the Council of Ministers stated on the act of the Agency since 2602 and 06.07.2015 on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the approval of a project to build an Agency facility? Why is no new procedure under the decision of the BiH Office to consider BiH's complaints? And is it accurate that he wants to give up construction and buy a new building in Banja Luka? Why am I asking these questions? I think it has already become almost shabby that for so many years it has practically not moved from the dead point of building in Banja Luka for identification documents even though every year the financial plan provided for funds of approximately 20-22 million KM, which, you will admit, had no funds. The Agency’s development strategy itself was designed to perform this Agency on 28 June '15. The agency has launched the selection process of the most favourable bidder for the implementation of works, the selection process of the Authority and the selection of the manager's projects. 22. ... 2015 The agency concluded that the public procurement procedure, which had already been completed, was interrupted at the construction of the building, which must be recognised, is completely contrary to the Public Procurement Act. That this is true also indicates the Office's Decision to consider complaints from 03.03.2016. by which the appeal was adopted and the case was returned to the retrial. In its annual report 2015, the Audit Office concluded that the Agency should not have terminated the procedure because it does not know the Public Procurement Act. What was the Agency doing in the meantime? Shut up until June 2016, so for a full year, when the purchase of time formally sends information to the Council of Ministers which, as far as I know, has not been considered recently. He's sending the Revision Office to an opinion on property legal issues, which the Office refuses with an explanation that he doesn't want to take part in consultations, which is quite logical, because it's not their law, their jurisdiction, and I guess we'd have to let the legal authorities know about it. It is very important, on this information, the Ministry of Finance gives the opinion that the construction process continues so as not to stop the building permit, which, by the way, stands out on the 11th month of 2017. For all that, the Agency is silent again and basically ignoring all these attitudes. The question arises, i.e. – why in June 2017 the Agency first problems the property and legal basis and property because...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3132	Can you hurry up, colleague Nović, time's up?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3133	It is very important, the Honorable Chairman, because the Agency has received 99 years of land in Banja Luka which we have divided in time along with the OSA, and they say it is legal uncertainty. Well, it is, indeed, 100 years is quite legal uncertainty in our areas if it were to be built. 3 And, let me cut back, because I'm going to use that to hear the answer, and then they say that this project that's so far been that these aren't the Agency's needs and that the value of the object is overrated. Okay, is there a document about it, who gave it to be overrated unless it's just verbally so that it's consistent with the flat-rates. And in the end, I think it's extremely important, extremely important that we get a complete answer and start finally building that facility or if it's another decision that we know what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3134	Thank you, Mr. Nović. We'll hear the answer. Minister Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3135	Dear Chairman, esteemed members of this tall House, chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow ministers, esteemed guests. I must say, I'm surprised that Sredoje Nović, my colleague, has asked these questions, since you Mr. Nović led the Ministry of Civil Affairs for eight years and you know very well and precisely the answer to every question asked, as well as the failures made both by the Ministry of Civil Affairs in your mandate and by the Agency for Identification Documents. But I will remind you, and the public will inform you of the following. It is true that you have launched an initiative to build a building for the installation of the Agency for Identification Documents in Banja Luka, which is good, which we welcome, but it is true that you and the then director Siniša Macan have made such a project documentation that the Agency for Identification Documents should have obtained a building of 9,000 m2 of space, which you and I also know that the Agency IDDEEA does not need that much space. It has a total of 4,000 m2 so that it can organize its work completely. As you said the price of 9,000 m2 is 22,530,000 KM, which we estimate does not require that much investment, but it can be half the investment. Of course, we were thinking that other state institutions could be housed in that building but the position and position of the building where it should be built it is far outside of the center of Banja Luka and other state institutions could not be placed there. The tender was called in the term of the then director Siniša Macan, who was very careful with his commission to do the tender documentation and the new management was the only thing left to open the tender. And it didn't surprise me, and no one would be surprised who knows the movement in Banja Luka, if that tender had been won by the company "Integral Engineering" a.d. Banja Luka. Maybe that's, in some ways, the answer to why you're building 9,000 m2, 50% more than the Agency needs. Fortunately, other participants in the tender complained and, as you said, the Board of Appeals annulled all this, and when he entered to look into the tender documentation, he saw that there were really great gaps, not to say anything else. The second question, did the Council of Ministers of BiH declare on the act of 26.02 and 06.07.2015, if you have already launched to build the IDDEEA building in Banja Luka, which no one has against, then you should have provided with the Republika Srpska government to transfer ownership over the land to the Agency for Identification Documents. You had, you have a very good connection with both the current and former Government of Republika Srpska and there is no reason why the Government of Republika Srpska does not transfer ownership to the Agency for Identification Documents that should build 4 in Banja Luka on a multimillion-dollar plot, let's say, the facility. Now, that's why we're in a dilemma today, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Council of Ministers, how can we say, not hot, but hot chestnuts from the fire? We don't need this much investment, another way to build when it's not owned by the Agency. And the third thing you've shown is that and you're thinking about building a building, we're all about finding a space for the Agency in Banja Luka, whether there's going to be a building or there's going to be a purchase of space for the Council of Ministers to decide on it, but we're leading ourselves, first of all, to say, by saving, once we estimate that we're going to get a space for the Agency that's going to be both functional and much, much cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3136	Thank you, Minister. Is Ambassador Nović satisfied with the answer? Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3137	Listen, I think at the very least you should be correct, Mr. Minister, so don't attribute to the Minister of Civil Affairs something that's within the Agency's jurisdiction. And don't ever do that again, because you'll be ex, and you'll leave that place, the Agency will stay and do your job. That's what you should have asked that director you put in place, so you should've asked him that too. Secondly, the Agency offered it on its own, and whether the Council of Ministers accepted or not is now something else. Can you, as Minister of Civil Affairs, change anything? You can't. And don't attribute it. Secondly, if, if you think it was a crime, it's clear to me that many of the debates that are being conducted and on the Council of Ministers, so some of us are calling for this or that, they have competent authorities, so they'll all find out whether they were criminals or not. But after three years, I'm just insisting on you why you didn't cancel all this and say that a new project is being created that's 3,000, 2,000, and I don't care at all, and that definitely the building is being built. Maybe it's missed, maybe it doesn't take nine or it needs nine, I can't tell you and I don't want to stand behind it, but it's correct to do it. I think you should keep that in mind, not attribute something to us now from three years ago. That could have changed in three years, I don't think it was any problem, and now I think the Agency can do it, the professional service says - it doesn't take 5,000 to solve it. Because I have seen the conclusion in the information that it proposes to form, that the Council of Ministers form a task force to analyse the justification of solving the permanent accommodation of the Agency and the organisational unit in Banja Luka. So what does that conclusion mean, is it necessary or not necessary? I'm not going to get into it, maybe it's the Council of Ministers and will, anyway, what's his jurisdiction... it's done, but once again I'm appealing to you all who are sitting in the Council of Ministers today - do everything you can to start building that facility at last or to solve the matter of accommodation, even if it is, whether shopping or not, I'm not interested in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3138	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I give my word to the envoys of Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3139	Nice greeting to my fellow envoys. And it's really nice to see the representatives of the Council of Ministers today in this number unlike the last time it was nobody, so I welcome you. 5 I had a question last time, so here it is, again, I won't explain it too much because I did it last time, so it's been done, the question has been asked to Mr. Šarović, Minister – What about the draft law on the supervision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina market, which has been in that ministry since 18.04.2012, and they have done it together with experts from the European Union? In that law, if adopted, it would be a harmonisation according to the report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress, the EU Regulation No 765/2008 would be adopted, allowing a review of goods at the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as all countries in the environment do, and this is how this agency must operate under the existing law, in the situation that I, as a customer, report that some goods are not correct and then that those nine inspectors, as far as the Federation, only nine, I am talking about the Federation, only nine inspectors remove that goods from the market, there are lots of children's toys, a lot of, I don't know, heaters, so some protective equipment and others. But what I did as a woman, as a mother, was particularly concerned that there are these little dolls where girls playing with such dolls have problems with respiratory organs but also after that because of their use, secretion and some substance won't be a mother either. Therefore, it is not irrelevant. This law would solve, therefore, imports, import checks at the very border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we got information, and we solved all these problems that we have... over goods that are unfoodable.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3140	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Minister Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3141	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome you all. This, however, requires that I perhaps read a part of the fact that it is really specific matter and that, I would say, is one part of the quality infrastructure that we have been talking about in recent years, and this is specifically what you're talking about You're talking about a European new package of 2008 measures, which includes several of the most important, including several of the most important regulations. It shall apply to the Decision on a common framework for trade in products, the Regulation on requests for accreditation and market surveillance, as well as to the Regulation on mutual recognition. And all these decisions, i.e. regulations, have their specific EU number. The area of infrastructure quality is arranged in a significantly different way than it was now and different from what our existing Market Surveillance Act treats, and... changes within the EU of a new package, i.e. new legislation in this area refer to the area of technical legislation, and new ways of assessing compliance as an important area, but also the transfer of the obligation to control products from border to market and introduction, changes are introduced in terms of product labelling, etc. C-Decision(?). We at the Ministry note that the submission of the obligation to control products from the border to the market, and here is thought of really technical, industrial products, the adoption of a new Market Control Act will have reflections on the increase of customs duties that will take over in one part of the inspection bodies at the border. Such a solution has been taken over by all the countries in the region according to the European principle and means we are the only ones in the region that we have not aligned with this so-called. A new package. Taking into account the existing legislation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the adoption of this new package would mean adoption, not only of this Law which you have spoken of, but also of the new Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency, the new Market Control Act and the Decision appointing a body to assess compliance with 6 as well as any amendments to the Law on Accreditation. So these first two laws don't change and supplement, given that it's a much larger volume of changes, it would require brand new laws, and in that sense we, as you said, launched some activities even in 2012. We as the Ministry and the competent market surveillance agency are in this sense ready, we have the support of the European Union, but, and that is..., what is most important is there is no political agreement for the adoption of these new regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3142	Thank you, Minister. Is the emissary satisfied with the offer of an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3143	I'm not happy with this closing sentence, not from the minister, but as it went. However, this is really unsettled, as you yourself have said, unsettled, and often there is an impression among us citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are a polygon where goods cannot pass the European Union, that I am not talking about that information about meat that eats frozen up to six months of people in the European Union, up to a year of animals, and over the year it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I mean, that's a terrible fact, but that's what it is. So, I don't know when it's gonna be, but it's worrying, your last line is worrying.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3144	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3145	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. A task force to monitor the situation and activities related to possible construction of a disposal of radioactive waste at the location of Trška Gora Municipality of Dvor, at the 3rd session, held on 30 June 2017, adopted Information on the activities of the Working Group and provided the Council of Ministers with further action. The same session also adopted certain conclusions, including the conclusion number 4 proposed to consider at a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, scheduled to start in July 2017, the intention of providing radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear waste at the location of the Shop Gora municipality of Dvor, and requires that the location of Shop Gora be excluded as a location intended for the disposal and storage of radioactive waste from the Space Plan of the Republic of Croatia. A joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was held on 7 July 2017. As could be seen at the press conference, questions such as, among other things, the disposal of nuclear waste were also mentioned. I am interested specifically – What is the result of the talks of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this issue? Second, my question also concerns a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as regards new border crossings between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely good because it opens up many 7 opportunities and, above all, easier flow of goods and people. I'm interested in what new border crossings are thought of and is this question concrete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3146	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3147	I welcome the Honorable Presidency and the distinguished delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. As far as the first issue of a respected representative is concerned, the event genealogy in connection with the site began much earlier, before Bosnia and Herzegovina first responded to the issue of Shop Gore, so the location was envisaged by the Spatial Plan of Croatia, which was both defined and officially published in the Official Journal for the period by 2012. And then the first time was to react immediately so that no further activity would continue to prepare the location itself. Unfortunately then, and since '09. until '12. It was embedded in the Spatial Plan of Croatia and already these, but as it is called, Sisak County, did not react, reacted quite late. But at this point, we can say it's timely. So, the government of Croatia is familiar with the resolution adopted, on the proposal of the Working Group, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and it is very clear that we strongly oppose this location that would serve to deposit the rest of the nuclear waste for the reasons set out in the resolution itself. So, as Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will certainly use all the instruments available to us, from, therefore, accessing the Espo Convention that allows participation in such processes to, of course, informing the country where nuclear waste is created, and that is, not only Croatia, but Slovenia. So I think that the government of Croatia and the resolution ministry and the distinguished prime minister have clearly understood the reasons for Bosnia and Herzegovina's strong opposition to the location. And, of course, it is very difficult now to say in advance that this situation will continue to develop, but we expect, first of all, to do so on the basis of mutual understanding with the increased activities of all the competent institutions, such as, in addition to the enhanced activities of the Council of Ministers, we have solved the problem that has arisen at the entity level in relation to the possibility of obtaining real estate by the citizens of the Federation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so we have solved it in a quick, peaceful and efficient way. I expect that's how we handle this. In any case, of course, we will stick to the resolutions ourselves, the views of those institutions that were responsible for this, the Working Groups, and if this is not possible through mutual understanding based on the profession and on the basis of, of course, the European Union standard then we will use all other legal instruments to avoid the final definition of that location at the intended location of Trgovina Gora. As for the border crossings, therefore, we agreed that, we explained the clear need why we believe that certain border crossings must be overtegrated, some open to trade, or to the traffic of goods, others to traffic people, because there is really no reason, especially in summer months, such as the crossings of the code, such as the Great Cladour, that people wait for hours at such crossings. And in that sense, here, I will also read, the agreement is therefore, of course, that border traffic is established at the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela – kordunski Ljeskovac. There, of course, the Croatian government has shown great willingness to do whatever is necessary on their part, because it is indeed about the activities that must take place in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, 8 not in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is about paveding one time from nearly 5 km, establishing a crossing, everything is on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I think it will happen very soon, and the rest will be working within the mixed commission, so it is the opening of the border crossing of Novi Grad – Dvor to facilitate traffic and the flow of goods. As for the faster flow of people, the border crossing of Orahov Do – Slano was already opened on 14th.06.2017, the border crossing of Duži – Imotica opened on 12.06.2017 and the border crossing of Hadžin Potok – Bogovolja will open on 01.08.2017. In this regard, we will make a significant improvement in the flow of both people and goods at these five or six border crossings, which will be re-tegrated both for traffic and for the flow of people and for the flow of goods between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3148	Thank you, Mr. President. Is Ambassador Rodić satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3149	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I just want to say that I've asked this question as a member of the Working Group who's worked all these months and years on this issue and I'm glad that contact has been established and whatever the complexity is we know and we know that during the previous period some conventions have not even been ratified, I think it's a good thing that we've all been involved together and I think that only in such a way, by respecting the resolution adopted by this parliamentary assembly we can resolve this issue. So I'm not asking to be answered in writing, it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3150	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. I give my word to Ambassador Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, after last session when there was no one from the Council of Ministers, it's nice to see the Council of Ministers like this in full co-operation, almost full-time, almost full-time. Here to remind the College and its distinguished colleagues, there is one minister, there is one song "There is one world", so there is one minister who has never, but never really come to this House's session and it would be really interesting to see me and my colleagues as much as we've asked him so far, and he's never entitled to show up here and to respond to any of us, it's a nice sign of respect, and I believe that I will personally appreciate it when voting on the Council of Ministers' Report, which he is part of, is that too. Today what I was going to ask him I think it's a pretty important thing, he can't answer my deputy, so I expect this my question to get an answer at least in writing because I did it once. Last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs opened a tender for the reception of 15 trainees received, so the students responded to the competition, they were accepted, however, a little funny, so the Foreign Ministry, one of the co-creator and foreign policy contractors, did not seek, however, nor could any profile 9 of the academics that were educated at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Banja Luka, Sarajevo or the Faculty of Philosophy Mostar be accepted. So the foreign ministry didn't give itself the opportunity to receive the personnel he needed, who were trained for it. And then she reacted to the Association of Students of the Faculty of Political Sciences of Sarajevo, the Student Organization of the Faculty of Political Sciences Banja Luka and the Association "Croatian Student Political Forum" Mostar. As it comes to educated, young, smart people who definitely need the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they, unlike us in this highest legislative body, have managed to reach Minister Crnadko. They held a meeting with him last year, where he promised them that he would correct it, launch a new tender that would respond to their remarks, that it would be possible to receive at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and children who had completed politology and that this would be the latest by the end of the first quarter of next year, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, as you do not know, and I will now of course meet you, the first quarter has passed, the competition is not called and I am looking in writing for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina to deliver to me, with the signing of Minister Crnadko, I hope that at least he will stop by the Ministry to sign it – does he mean to keep what he promised to those children from Banja Luka, Sarajevo and Mostar. And, since I won't have the opportunity to respond in response to the received answer, I see that here the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, a few months ago you weren't present at the session, but since you really respond regularly, I asked to receive a written reply – How much has been paid by the civil servants of Bosnia and Herzegovina and his, their masters, their doctorates, to get their names, how much has been spent on the education of these staffs, which clearly differ from all the few million citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they are so able to pay them further? I note to the Honorable Prime Minister's President that I didn't get that answer and see it in your office if someone puts it in a drawer, there's a custom, as I've heard, at least I haven't seen it, but I've heard there's a custom to disappear somewhere in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3152	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I give my word to Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3153	Thank you, Mr. President. A warm welcome to all present envoys, members of the Council of Ministers headed by the president, the media, the guests. Here I join, uh, also welcome these facts that we have a full Council of Ministers because important issues are here and I think that the House of Nations has one correct cooperation on this matter, except perhaps sometimes on committees, so because of an objective picture we cannot always sue that the absence of members of the Council of Ministers is the reason for our joint inaction on these issues. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and reads – What does Bosnia and Herzegovina mean for Bosnia and Herzegovina the continuing lack of strategic planning at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the energy sector when it is objectively clear to all that there may be the greatest potential for the investment cycle and for the launch of this country, which needs a positive message from this type? And secondly, what are the direct and indirect consequences of the non-signature by Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Transport Community Treaty? 10 The public is well known, these days we have seen that Bosnia and Herzegovina's only one in the region did not sign this Agreement, although of the six regional projects at the Trieste Summit four were even set for Bosnia and Herzegovina's total value of over 200m and some euros, of which more than 40 million grant. So there is now a temporary suspension of these funds and the possibility of, therefore, joining in, however, that objectively there is no alternative. So here's a brief explanation, even though I think it's too much when we see where we are. So, at this point, Mr. President, it's clear to me that you are in a very demanding situation as chairman of the Council of Ministers. The leaders of parliament's majority parties themselves say there is no parliamentary majority. The question is who is politically behind the Council of Ministers now, and the question is whether it is possible to establish a political responsibility for those to whom we and the people have cast votes at all. The second thing, when it comes to the non-signature of this Transport Community Agreement, you have the same members of the Council of Ministers who differ in terms of how it was voted, whether it is a respected Rules of Procedure, the additional public is confused, there are additional tensions being produced instead of all energy being sent to this country to seize these opportunities and to extend the hand that is constantly offered to it. And secondly, we have the fact, therefore, that here in Brussels these days from the highest officials of this country, I quote, they themselves say that Bosnia and Herzegovina has in some way lost credibility and disgraced. So we all have to do something together. This does not apply personally to you, myself personally and here, that I am, this, responsibly speaking, convinced that you are fully committed to the European path and in these complex circumstances that you are doing what you can, and also here you need to open certain questions, because the damage is already huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3154	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3155	Thank you very much for the questions asked, very briefly, taxing and all through one gene and about one and the other. Regarding the first question, it is clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina, given our energy potential, is indeed a leader in terms of the energy sector in the region itself. It is certainly necessary to underline once again that our hydroenergy potentials have such capacity to put us practically in eighth place in Europe, to have more than 6 billion tonnes of the highest quality coal reserves, to have very high-quality potentials in renewable energy, wind power plants, bioenergy, etc. So we have really great potential and we still have, of course, surplus in the production and export of electricity, we're leaders in the region, but unfortunately some levels of government, some institutions other than the Council of Ministers, which is the generator of these positive events all the time, act like we're alone in the whole world. So, institutions that by automation should understand what integration means, they generally act as if Bosnia and Herzegovina were alone on the entire planet and that all the planet's energy is produced only in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They do not understand at all what the regional energy system means, they do not understand what integration means in one energy network of Southeast Europe, the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. And that is why, of course, we have these kinds of slowdown in the process of adopting strategic documents that then enable us to realise the obligations of the Third Energy Package, the obligations of the Fourth Energy Package, that 11 we really be a credible partner or perhaps even the most important factor of Southeast Europe in the Energy Community of the European Union. The Council of Ministers is also in this segment, as we did in the development of the Framework Transport Strategy when we provided money for both the Council of Ministers and entity governments and managed to coordinate all processes to get to the strategy. We have also done the same thing when we talk about the energy strategy, we have again provided money for the development of the strategy at the level of the Council of Ministers and at the level of entities. And what's no longer any obstacle to this strategy being adopted in any, here's to saying, very fast, condensed time period, so we're not talking about months now, we're talking about weeks, maybe days. With such a strategy of priorities that will determine, of course, the entities and the Council of Ministers in one coordinated action, we will focus on three key objectives, that is to ensure continuous, continuous production and supply of electricity, gradual transition, in line with European standards, renewable energy sources and, of course, price accessibility for both citizens and for the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it is a base and potential and a key instrument of economic development. So, in this sense, the processes may go slowly, but they are going in the right direction, and we will come very quickly to a framework energy strategy that will, of course, respect all that will be proposed and clearly explained by those who have legal and other competences in the area other than the Council of Ministers of BiH. As far as the Transport Community is concerned, it's just a short gene. So the agreement itself was launched, not two weeks ago, was launched in 2009. In 2010, the BiH Presidency adopted the basics and guidelines for the development of the agreement, the Transport Community Treaty, and since then, the very content of the Treaty and its annexes and protocols, etc. They did not experience any significant changes, since the Guidelines were completely clear, all modes of transport are treated – road, water, rail, air, etc. And that's why our resolute minister, Mr. Jusko, was initialling the Transport Community Treaty almost four months ago. That is, therefore, the time when we do not have any concrete remarks on what Bosnia and Herzegovina should ask to be incorporated into this Treaty, that, of course, on practically a few days before deciding on it, the Council of Ministers would receive one position from the Republika Srpska government which voted not to join the Treaty until Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes a full member of the European Union. Of course, when Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes a full member of the European Union, given that this will happen to the region, that means that it should not, then there will be no need for the Transport Community Treaty. And that's why there's been a little prolonging, which, of course, hasn't taken down much now in some drastic way, let me say, rating Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll be završić, Mr. Chairman in 20 seconds. I remind myself of, before that, before Trieste held a meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Council with Mrs Mogerini when there was clearly an impressive progress in 2016, which was the most successful European year and full credibility of the b institutions. Of course, the place where Bosnia and Herzegovina will place its signature on the Transport Community Treaty is still waiting for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm pretty sure we'll do it as soon as possible, so very, very soon. The projects have been approved and this is most important, out of the six approved projects for the Western Balkans four, Bosnia and Herzegovina has received 250m euros of which 41m euros in funding. So, I expect us all to show seriousness in terms of the projects we have received and in general given the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Transport Community and the importance of connecting the region with transport infrastructure as a key base and a basis for strengthening economic relations and economic development of the entire region, hence both Bosnia and Herzegovina. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3156	Thank you, Mr. President. Is Ambassador Raguž satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3157	I am, and here I would like to thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, especially, here, what we have received from the Energy Strategy, that this is a question of the day when it should be valorised, and, behold, regardless of the deadlines for the Transposal Community Treaty, and there is an emphasis on optimism that this will soon be resolved. And, here, I would like to make it clear, therefore, that I expect the members of the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers when this House discusses the report on the work of the Council of Ministers freely and strongly on these, objectively, periods when the pace and time has been lost and whatever it is in '16. It was like you said, the fact is '17. Different Mr. President. Unfortunately, the fact is that now Europe's biggest officials say it's not real, some of it's not even 18. to get candidate status, and we know what's announced for the beginning of this year, and it's already half past, that we're going to have that candidate status. These are questions, here, that deserve to be discussed here all together, and especially the blockades, the obstructions that are recorded on that road to be located, if they're not justified, if they are and should be welcomed, if they're not removed and we're going to return the faith that we're really going to go that way. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3158	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. We have an intervention now, Mr. Karamatić. What did you want, Mr. Karamatić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3159	Mr. Chairman. Only a small correction of the wrong allegations, esteemed counterpart Raguž said everyone from the Council of Ministers is present.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3160	And we heard it well.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3161	So they're not all there. Real is real, so don't play without the right back or without the attacker, so if they're all – everyone, if one is missing – is missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3162	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3163	No microphone 13 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3164	Come on, say it, say it, though neither of you were right, but go ahead, come on. Go ahead, say it, say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3165	... My point is that the Council of Ministers is complete today. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3166	Thank you, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3167	And Mr. Čolak, I'm right regardless...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3168	Thank you, thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Sead Kadić. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3169	Mr. Chairman, the chairman, Mr. Prime Minister's Council Chairman, Ministers at the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow delegates, present guests. I have one question, but I would have liked to have asked this question right after Mr. Raguž because it's similar in some topic, chairing some answers to these questions, which Mr. Raguž also asked, he gave, but, look, I'm not going to give up my question. Namely, my question also relates to about this similar problem, but more specifically at the Western Balkan Summit held in Trieste on 12 July in the framework of, here, activities around the Berlin process, and this is about the next. - What exactly was going on there, were the damages done to the state and how much were those damage assessments? How is this Agreement not good for us, and it is good for Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Slovenia, Kosovo and Albania? Are these and similar communities organised under the auspices of the European Union and part of the Reform Agenda, which the chairman spoke of, and are these activities still under way and what are the chances of this Transport Community Agreement being signed anyway? The reason for asking this question of mine, my personal opinion that these are very important topics for our country's overall progress towards a European path and that they should be treated here in the House of Peoples and Parliament, not that I, as a delegate, hear them from the media. Here, that's my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3170	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3171	Thank you very much for asking. If you'll excuse me, I'll only take one minute for one digression, and I'll look back at what Mr. Raguž said. So it is quite realistic for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get candidate status in 2018, I think that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 14 Herzegovina should not be afraid with any other ideas. We understand, of course, the need for us and the European Union in some way to try to speed up all processes, but here we go back only a year, then we were also told that it is not realistic to submit to the candidacy, so it is not realistic that we will get, that our candidacy and application will be accepted because we have not realised any of the three conditions, they did not believe that we will realize them, so Bosnia and Herzegovina has made them very credible, so our application has been accepted, and then they said it is not realistic to get a questionnaire, so we got a questionnaire, etc. So we work very seriously on European integrations and processes are going in the right direction, perhaps not at what speed I would like, for example, personally, but in any case they are going in a positive direction. As far as the questions of the honourable representative Kadić are concerned, I have already partially answered that question. Bosnia and Herzegovina was supposed to sign the Transport Community Treaty, it was a mistake why it was not done and those who disputed the signing of the Transport Community Treaty did not actually have any real or reasoned views and facts, because in just seven days we received three different opinions in front of the Republika Srpska Government that speak, of course, about the unfounded... true factors or the true reasons why it came up against it. But I am quite sure, given the importance of such a document that Bosnia and Herzegovina will sign it very quickly, that we will all be as responsible as possible and that we will finally all understand that integration into the European Union is not a Swedish table. So Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot only come and take the most beautiful cake she likes and not the rest. Integrations mean integration, integration means reforms that are very difficult and very painful. So if we want integration, and we're all set for integration, as far as I know, in early '15, then we all have to work actively to meet the requirements and tasks on the path of European integration. If we take any example today we will see, therefore, that there is a selective approach to it. We had this approach when adopting the Excise Act, right, our excise duties are 25 fenings, in Serbia 98, in Croatia 101 fening. So five or six times less, and at the same time we have a request to speed up, a significant, dynamic construction of road infrastructure. Therefore, credit institutions, international financial institutions have, of course, their own conditions, there are naturally integration processes that Bosnia and Herzegovina must meet and we must be very serious about such processes. Therefore, it was done, of course, to damage Bosnia and Herzegovina by not signing the Transport Community Treaty, but, fortunately, no irreparable damage has been done. The damage can be fixed and we as the Council of Ministers in co-operation with entity governments will indeed do so very quickly. What is certainly not going to happen, and I see that there are such tendencies, is the intention that the coordination mechanism represents a substitution and a replacement for all the constitutions and for all the laws in this country. So the coordination mechanism is no substitute for the BiH Constitution, nor for the constitutions of other levels of government, the coordination mechanism is no substitute for laws that apply at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or at the level of other authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, other levels of government. The coordination mechanism serves processes such as Questionnaire, and that is where we should focus and use the coordination mechanism. Therefore, reasons which are non-constitutional and non-institutional, which cannot be accepted for the state minister to be rotated in state affairs with entity ministers still contest the signing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's treaty on the Transport Community. When that fact is finally removed in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Minister Jusko or myself, depending on who we will appoint as signator, we will put our contract on and become part of the Transport Community. This means integration, that means new investments, that means modernising railways, roads, waterways, that means, therefore, new funds to which Bosnia and Herzegovina will join and the possibility of becoming quickly within the meaning of standards and normative parts of the European Union. 15 And I end up with two more sentences. The fact that we, some of us clearly, are thousands of percent committed to the European Union, so not 100%, thousands of percent, my total engagement is tied to European and NATO integration to the level where we have a consensus or agreement, which is the MAP. However, there are also those who are committed declaratively. Those who are committed declareably prevent us from accessing IPARD funds. So, farmers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially in Republika Srpska, have been having huge problems, we have lost at least 150m euros in grants over a declarative approach to European integration for the last five years. The same thing is happening in the energy sector. We do not want to become part of the total regional energy network, and of course we want to withdraw funds. That I can't, you have to be part of the integration process to pull the funds and the same thing happens in traffic. So, we want the taxpayers of the European Union to grant a grant and they gave 46m euros for roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the same time we do not want to make amendments to the Excise Law in order to make our own contribution to road construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here in Bosnia and Herzegovina is a key issue – are we for European integration? If we are, these are integrated and difficult processes, reforms, modernisation, digitisation, etc., and if we are only girlically committed, then, of course, those who dispute the processes should finally, finally say that citizens then know who is actually responsible for slowing down the process on the European path. I continue to responsibly argue that the Council is a key generator for European processes and positive processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will remain in that direction until the end of our mandate, and continue to advocate the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3172	Thank you, Mr. President. Is the envoy satisfied with the offer of an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3173	Mr. Chairman, I am pleased with Mr. Chairman's reply. And I would also say that it is my personal opinion that this Council of Ministers led by Mr. Zvizdić is really standing as he presented it. If we just remember, here are recent visits and holding a joint cabinet session, that is, with the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, I think that this is the Council of Ministers enough and here, I say, has opened the door to those neighbours, is that so the sea, otherwise cannot. And I am absolutely behind all this stuff that's been said here and I would invite us all to be responsible for what we're signing here, we're agreeing, have we all said, all the political parties, that we want a trip to the European Union, but simply and, uh, it has to be with the return victims, the greater engagement of all of us. And one in the end is just a sentence, it's a simple thing, these youngsters, here we are often witnessing these topics now, going outside, they're not going anywhere but to the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3174	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. Envoy Ljilja Zovko addressed the parliamentary issue in writing to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Prosecutor's Office, which was delivered to them in accordance with Article 158 (1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. Is there any need for anything? There isn't. Thank you. 16 We will now move to the agenda of today’s session, since we have exhausted questions and answers to the envoy’s questions. For the 31st session, I suggest the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 30th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – Proposers of Representatives: Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Martin Raguž and Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1133/17, since 28.04.2017; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2509/16, from 28/09/2016 and 25/01/2017; 4. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control (first reading) – Proposer: Temporary joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, of 26.05.2017; 5. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-946/17, of 05.04.2017; 6. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, delivered by the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01.02-50-14-1131-5/17, of 31.05.2017; 7. Annual consolidated internal audit report 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1110/17, dated 26.04.2017; 8. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1110-2/17, of 26.04.2017; 9. Report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of BiH in 2016, delivered by the Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-1215/17, of 12.05.2017; 10. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – applicant: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1227/17, of 12.05.2017; 11. Amendment and addition of the Annual Plan of Training and Exercise of Members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1- 03-1362/17, since 29.05.2017; 12. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016, issue: 02-09-1421/17, of 06.06.2017; 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2016, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-1382/17, dated 31.05.2017; 14. Programme for the Development of the Protection and Rescue System at the level of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 02-04-1049/17, dated 25.05.2017; 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-14-1450/17, of 09.06.2017; 17 16. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue 01.02-34-1-1590/17, since 30.06.2017; 17. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-50-14-388-4.3a/17, of 09.06.2017, 18. Council Regulation (EC) No 1706/2006 of 22 December 2006 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation of the Schengen acquis and Giving consent to the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro in the European Union accession process, No: 01,02-05-2-133/17, of 26.05.2017; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Funding Agreement (Policy in RS – B) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, issue: 01,02-05-2-1363/17, dated 29.05.2017; 21. Approval to ratify the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Poland on military co-operation, No 01,02-05-2-1431/17, of 07.06.2017. This is the concerted agenda of the BiH Parliament Assembly's House of Peoples College. Does anyone come forward for a word, possibly for a change or an addition to the agenda? No candidates reported. If there is no proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, then it shall be adopted and not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Does anyone report for the first item of the agenda? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 13, it was not against, it was abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against, with 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an ethnic majority. I agree that the minutes of the 30th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're going to the second item of the agenda, that's, uh, 18 Ad. 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples – Envoys: Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Martin Raguž and Mario Karamatić, Law No: 02-02-1133/17, since 28.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3177	Well, I didn't really mean first on this point, but at the end of my presentation just before the Council of Ministers said that a thousand percent for the European Union and for all laws, reforms and everything else related to the European Union. Now I say for myself, and I am certainly also for colleagues of 19 from the Croatian Club, that we too are a thousand percent for the European Union and that all possible laws that come from the European Union are respected if we do not move forward. Two months ago, were they two months ago, yes, 04.05., the vital national interest of the Bosniak Club was launched against the proposal we proposed as representatives of the Croatian people in front of the Croatian National Assembly, representatives of all, most of the Croatian parties who make up the HNS as all elected, and all there who sit in the Croatian National Assembly were chosen by the will of the people, whether from council members to state representatives. However, the consequences of this rise in vital national interest, I am not fully convinced that my colleagues from the House of Nations are experienced politicians and knew in advance that this is not at all, nor could it be, a violation of the vital national, a threat to the vital national interest of any people, but a picture has been obtained in public, because when you have media, then you have everything. We know that Hrvat do not have the media, so we signatories of this Act have not had the opportunity to clarify the Law, because, of course, the debate was immediately interrupted as soon as, according to the Rules of Procedure, as soon as the vital national interest was raised. And then this law of ours was talked about in the way that it, either deliberately or intentionally, was meant to be. The consequences are terrible, the consequences go so far that hate is created, if we follow the portals and follow, hatred for this Croatian people. Because everything that comes from here, everything that we suggest goes very quickly to the story of a joint criminal enterprise, oh, what they say, that... well, then we say something, I didn't even know by now, here, the other day I heard from the minister that there was something for home ready, I have no idea. So one nakarada, one hatred for one nation. Today I was wondering if it was on purpose or if it was an accident. Indeed, the editors of these televisions should ask these guests who bring them, and that is not us, those guests who bring if they have read the Law. Now, again, I'm saying, I don't know if it's intentional or unintentional, because those who talk about this law seem real that they haven't read it. What we hear comes as a surprise, I know what we're up to, I know what we signed. Perhaps the best example would be to say, here's the other day when the Constitutional Court made these decisions, all during the day we were waiting for those decisions, and on one of the portals, read the portal with the possibility of reacting, the first was that the Constitutional Court made a decision, a notice, that the appeal from Republika Srpska was rejected, that Statehood Day..., etc., it was the first, the second special news then went that this Law did not violate the vital national interest of Bošnjak, and then waited for some time and moved, the reactions of our politicians started. And now it goes in that same portal, it says – Mr. Izetbegović commended, or whatever, the Constitutional Court Decision. Down in the comments are attacks, as they could have already been, but from that people, from the same people – you gave Čović again, again, I don't know. So when you open it you will read that he praised only this first decision from Republika Srpska, the second one did not comment at all. I mean, it wasn't read, people were reacting to the title, they were reacting backwards, the way it really wasn't. That's how it reacted to this law of ours. They report, I'm a representative, I'm here as a representative of the Croatian people but I'm from Central Bosnia, and now there's a very big media attention coming from one of the parties that has a Croatian omens, says this law is devastating for us from Central Bosnia, Hrvat from Central Bosnia. And now a man really wonders where, like that, it's this unread law or I don't know on purpose. If a member of the Bureau will vote at the same time, I mean the votes of the group..., means the City of Mostar and Stolac, Travnik, Knight, Jajce, Kiseljak, Novi Travnik, Busovača, Gornji Vakuf-Uskople, Fojnica, Odžak, Zepče, Varesh, Glamoc, Drvar, Bosnian Grahovo, Bosnian Petrovac, Brcko District, what makes this something that binds and makes the third entity? What if he looks at the map scattered all over the place? If you thought about it, it means,... and if you think about that, what about the election in the Central Bosnia House of the Peoples, according to the proposal we're making now, so far there are three, according to this new one there would be four representatives, four delegates in the House of the Peoples of Central Bosnia and make up almost a quarter. What's devastating is you have no idea, but 20 is so much space that, then the story of what we want is spread, that only one party is mentioned, only one president, and that then it's reviled as it can be. I'm sorry that it's come to this, one truly great hatred for this people, for my people, without need. There's a Hrvat being brought in, I don't even say how big a Hrvat is, but it's five or six people who change all the time. I guess on all the TVs they can look for a hot meal because they're always there. They keep reacting the way it suits someone. It would really be good for the public, for these services of ours to call on those who propose the law, so that they have the opportunity to explain it, not when others react, but in your eyes. This, this way was indeed one tyranny towards this people for two months, according to my people through this Law which, finally, I will not read anything but only this last one from the Constitutional Court when it says – finally whether the proposed solution to the allocation of the mandate raises the question of compliance with the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, and what the applicants are suggesting, in the light of the specific provisions of the Federation Constitution, cannot be linked to the question of potential destruction in the vital national interest because these are two different concepts. That's why I claim that my colleagues with great experience knew it very well, but here, it was used the way it was used. I only reacted first because he said that he is a thousand percent, and here I am a thousand percent9 for the European Union, and the European Union has adopted resolutions that should be respected, which are equally badly reacted solely because of the fact that there are over 300 representatives Hrvat their Parliament and they are the ones that are problematic and because of them, there is no need for that resolution of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3178	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Mrs. Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3179	Thank you very much, President. That's a nice greeting to all those present. I'm sorry this all happened to us in the House of Peoples. The people's home is an institution that protects Bosnia and Herzegovina and the BiH Constitution, and we thought that we would understand each other in the House of Peoples. And we need to spread from this level this unity, consistency and recognition of these mutual interests, especially when someone gives statements like that that NGO there is some unknown people of the HNS, and the HNS is, therefore, an institution where all elected representatives of the Croatian people, wherever they are, wherever they are, any single councilman they have. And automatically if we in the House of Peoples are silent about such statements and we invite such people into the media and, of course, we represent that they are some profile of Hrvat to live in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whoever's doing this is doing it against Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm sorry that no one in any press has asked us in any media to explain how we make the division. It's been so hard for me to read all the interviews, all the comments that say that our Proposition of Election Law is a new division. And now, here, as the Croatian Club, we're going to do an analysis of all the comments and all the performances, and all the statements about what is who after ours, after this shift of vital national interest, what happened and what are the effects of these, what are the consequences. The consequences are catastrophic. So, how are you going to explain to people today when this law passes or doesn't pass, or tomorrow when you need to come to people, how are you going to explain to them that it's not a division when they all see it but that it's a division? Now, I've decided to use this time in a way that I can read, because this is no one, no medium has explained the measure of judgment, no medium has announced the decision, to say that 21 this is a country of three peoples. The Constitutional Court notes that the reasons for the bill's proposal as a reason for the proposed decision by the applicant highlighted the implementation of Constitutional Court Decision No 23/14, in a way to ensure that the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH is the House of Legislative and Legal Representatives of the Peoples. Furthermore, in that same decision, the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH represents the House of Constitutional Peoples, not the House of Canton as federal units of which the Federation of BiH consists. The basic function of the House of Nations is to protect the constitutionality of the people, so that there would be no constitutionality at home. I'm sorry to have to read this to you, but the media don't know that, I hope, now we'll follow who's gonna pass it on. Therefore, the right to a democratic decision made by legitimate political representation must be based on the democratic election of envoys in the Federation of BiH House of Peoples of the constituent people representing and whose interests it represents. The Constitution of the Federation of BiH first states that the composition of the House of Peoples, that the parity of the House of Nations, is so that every constituent nation, not the canton, has the same number of delegates, i.e. By 17, and that seven delegates have others. Furthermore, the Constitution of the Federation of BiH states that delegates in the House of Peoples are elected by the cantonal parliaments in the order of their delegates proportionally to the national structure of the population, not proportionate to the national structure of their delegates, which has so far been the case, with the number of structures and the way delegates are elected by law. Finally, the Constitution of the Federation of BiH determines that at least one Bošnjak, one Hrvat and one Srbin from every canton that has at least one such representative in its legislative body will be in the House of Peoples. In this case, it is a conditional option, i.e. It is necessary to elect at least one Hrvat, one Bošnjak, one Srbin in direct elections for the Canton Assembly. The Constitutional Court notes that the proposed solution, as previously, is based on identical principles, i.e. that delegates are elected from the legislative body of the county according to data on the last census. The solution offered, as so far, ensures a parity representation of 17 envoys to each of the constituent peoples. Furthermore, the solution offered, based on the data on the last census, established the proportional representation of each of the constituent peoples in individual cantons, on which each of the constituent peoples is determined in which 17 delegates of each of the constituent peoples will choose. Finally, by applying the criteria of proportionate representation of members, i.e. the constituent people in the total population of canton, each of the constituent peoples is excluded from the allocation of the mandate in specific cantons. It follows that the criterion of proportionate representation of each of the constituent peoples in the total population of Canton is applied in the same way to all constituent nations and results in the same restriction towards all constituent peoples, i.e. that every constituent nation chooses delegates in certain but not all cantons. I'm sorry, I had to read this. There is no division, this is just for empowering Bosnia and Herzegovina, for respecting Bosnia and Herzegovina as it is and that is the only way we can go forward and into Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3180	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. I'll give the advantage of who signed up, so I'll end up with Mr. Raguž. Here you go. I thought there was no one left, so I called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3181	Here, thank you. 22 I will work really hard for a while, for, behold, we have heard many arguments, and we have heard also the scriptures of the decision of permission, the measure of the Constitutional Court. I must say, so, like, that as an envoy in this House, an envoy from the order of the Croatian people I am together, I believe, like all of you here, got one satisfaction through the decision of this Constitutional Court, because it's hard to bear some... burden that something that you run in this House can be destructive by the vital interest of another people, which I believe none of us would have thought, and not tried. And in that sense, this decision is really one positive satisfaction for all of us, I don't think here......that although it has procedurally met the conditions of this decision by the Bosniak Club, the Constitutional Court decides that it does not harm the vital interest of the Bosniak people. That's very important. The other thing I'm trying to say is, so you see, we've suggested this as a club. In this club I am the only representative of the HDZ 1990s in this club I am in opposition, so, and I tried to say this last time that this question that exceeds the daily policy is a matter of authority and opposition, rather than a question of how some of the essential issues for this country should be addressed. What we've always had in common is that we can't come out unitedly with a proposal, so here we are. It may not be ideal, and it probably isn't, but it's not jeopardizing other peoples, peoples, or citizens, or others, which is clearly in place here. And the other thing I want to say, and it's very important, so what's in the interpretation of the Constitutional Court? We see that these days debates are being held again in the Constitutional Court, the laws are being announced, you know, we may sometimes like the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and sometimes, but it is a supreme instance and it exists, while it has the credibility to take these positions it will give power to the legal order of the country and restore faith that it is possible to fight institutionally for certain issues. What does the Constitutional Court say for the protection of vital national interest? He says it's very important in countries where there are multiethnic, multilingual, multi-religious communities or communities that are typical of their differences. And that interest in a country like this... is not hurt, thank Bog. The second thing, he says, according to the Constitutional Court – the effective participation of constituent peoples in the process of making political decisions in order to prevent the absolute domination of one group over another is vital national interest. So we legitimately asked the question of preventing any domination. And thirdly, we have tried and offered one variant of the application of the Constitutional Court's decision, one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, two are in play when it comes to our proposal, it is the amendment of the Election Law regarding, behold, more than 10 years of non-determination of the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the City of Mostar and now the latest rulings of the Constitutional Court when it comes to the House of Peoples, where it is clear in the Constitutional Court's decision that the principle of legitimacy must be respected in the choice and establish a direct connection between those who represent... and those who... I hope, therefore, to finish, to see that we are all responsible, that no one spends heavy words because the difficult question is complex, but also a question that can no longer be pushed under the carpet, we need to look for a solution, so this will encourage the opening of processes that will solve these issues, here are three questions – the election of members of the Presidency, the House of Peoples and Mostars. It is true that, and the Constitutional Court also says, this is not covered by the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, and this proposed solution, and I responsibly argue, does not prevent the possibility of the settlement of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac tomorrow. And tomorrow's agreement on Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac implies a change of constitution. Come on, people, here's 23, let's go, I'll go first, so this doesn't stop this, here, we hear that some political parties, very important political parties, demand it, and that should be welcomed, let's look for a solution further on this issue, let's look for solutions, let's not conflict and, uh, each other's fingers in the eye. And in this context, I want to make it clear, therefore, that, personally, HDZ 1990, we want these issues to be opened and to be resolved and broader than this proposed proposal, but that this proposal, in some ways, allows for the start of one serious action. And to conclude, it is very clear here that 23, through the abuse of attempt and initiation, if not properly justified, the protection of vital national interest is blocked by the work of the Parliamentary Assembly in terms of time-consuming, procedures, etc. I think we need to avoid it, we need to decide today and make our decision, our part of responsibility, this, take, take certain experiences between us and good faith, this, that we all want good to each other, that no proposal should go to the expense of any people, citizen or any other. And I believe that it's done to the most possible extent, it's not ideally safe, and it opens up a new direction of compromise and agreement unlike this multi-annual, multi-annual blockade, I have to say. Why isn't this issue settled? Well, because some people really fit the status quo. And what's the status quo here?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3182	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3183	So tell Babalj what the status quo is. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3184	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3185	Say it. Is the status quo for some to have a state in the country and others not to be able to choose legitimate representatives. I'm asking you, since you're already commenting while I'm talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3186	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I'm waiting for it to be, and he's going to be in for a discussion, so I thought, no, the Babalj signed up for the discussion, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3187	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3188	And for the replica. If it's a replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3189	Here, I didn't mean to pick up, I'm just telling Mr. Nović what the status quo is and I don't know what to answer, but here's what you've already called me, here's when you asked me – I don't know what the status quo is. All I know is there's a state, I know there's a Dayton Agreement, I know there's a Washington deal, I know you tied the flags in '91. For years, I know you've created the fate of your people, not us. And since you've already called me, I don't want to interfere at all with the Electoral Law, and we'll be held back on this issue because we'll be so collegiate that when Hrvat and Bošnjak need to agree, and it's in the interest of the Federation of BiH, we'll let you agree. We know this is the House of Peoples, we know that in the House of Peoples with this voice that you said, Mr. Raguž, there is a majority here. You know what the status quo is? Let me tell you: this will not pass in the House of Representatives. So, first we have to sit down at the table and make a deal. Unfortunately, I am at the Interresor Commission for Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law, and of course I will resign 24 today. And you know why? Because three last sessions, no Hrvat showed up on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3190	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. Mr. Raguž, I'm guessing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3191	Well, here I am, so I'm very rarely responding, but this is the second time that I'm making very important arguments is so lucidly asking a question that's being heard, and it's a very important question of what is the status quo in this country. I don't want to have a debate today... I respect you. I know what the status quo is and I know that the fate of any of these people here was not solely determined by their representatives, Mr. Babalj, but by the strong international structures, the strongest forces of this world, and that they were caused by some political platforms that have lasted for centuries and which unfortunately are not... And I don't want to go on about it. I do, and I invited us, therefore, to listen to each other and respect. And I can understand that you are resigning from the Interresor Working Group, but here I would remind you that when I formed this Interresor Working Group I reminded her that she would spend two years, that she would not solve. So, unfortunately, we had to act on our own. That's one reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3192	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow delegates, colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and everyone in this room. So this force of arguments that you presented in your presentations was the subject of debate before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said what it had to do with him and opened the space for further procedure regarding this law. Mr. Babalj certainly, listening to all this, tried to somehow consider this story from the perspective of his own people, more specifically from our justifiable fear of what would have happened to our people if it hadn't been for the creation of Republika Srpska. And he, in a way that one of the participants in the creation of Republika Srpska, has the right to do so, has apostrophe through some solutions called peace-making and that have established the structure within this country. That's why I would take this opportunity to go out for a pay phone to make a conviction that I don't think is controversial, because if it's a dispute here for anyone, then we have a much bigger problem than a few decisions of the Constitutional Court. So, if I'm sure of something, I'm sure this issue will be resolved before the elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina are discussed, so it's completely safe. And any form of tension that can prevent political parties from making a decision with an objective explanation to their electoral body is hardly something that contributes to a quick solution. And we always agree that dynamics are very important, so better today than tomorrow if such a situation is already going to be reached, and it will be achieved. 25 And in that sense, what Mr Babalj was also talking about, and what is about our way of saying about this Law, so I would say it has a special weight precisely because it shows the specific correctness that is necessary when it comes to any of the representatives of the Alliance for Change, given that we, in a fairly correct way within the Council of Ministers, behind whom we stand together, are working with political parties which, I would say, are the bearers of these initiatives that concern the amendments to electoral legislation on both sides of the Federation of BiH. And I don't expect anyone to praise or greet it, it's just very important for the people who support us here to be clear what it means when we're restrained on a subject like this. And as for this work of the Interresor Working Group, my disappointment. As Mr. Babalj will obviously do, I've already done it, and I'm actually the one who has to resign now because I've too much of the same working group, all with the intention of speeding up this process, to be as creative as possible. And I still believe, I'm saying I'm absolutely sure this will all be settled regardless of the state of the Interresor Working Group. Thank you. The word has been given to the Honorable Chairman of this House, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3195	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Dear envoys and envoys, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests. Well, I don't think at this point we need any tension, we don't need any conflicts, we need reason now, and we need this question as soon as possible. Unfortunately, we've lost a lot of time, so nearly three months, by the time it gets to the House of Representatives, it'll probably be three months full. But what's done is done. We do not need, what the people say, to cry for spilled milk, we need to make good use of this time ahead of us to come to the amendment and addition of the electoral law that will really enable, not only the conduct of elections, but also the implementation of election results. You know that, despite this decision, another Constitutional Court decision has been taken, this also expected decision, since the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH failed to act within a period of six months, so to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and now those provisions, therefore, which the previous Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional, have been put out of force. So we don't have much time, and I think what's left of this is the maximum time we have to use to change and supplement the election law. We're just ready, and I'm going to do it over and over again here, accept every solution, so not just this solution that we have proposed, which respects the principle of legitimate representation. Therefore, in this Decision and in its previous decision, the Constitutional Court stressed that principle of legitimate representation, it has been reiterated in several European Parliament resolutions. So, this general principle of democracy, which involves legitimate representation and it implies that one nation, another, third, each of the constituent peoples is represented legitimately, legitimately represented, which means that elected representatives, political representatives of one nation, therefore, must be related to those they represent, do not go differently. So here, when it comes to the House of the Peoples, for the hundredth time we repeat, so it's about the people being represented because the House of the Federal Units is not the House of the Federal Units, but the House of the Constitutive Peoples as well as the House of Representatives represent all those who choose them. So, and there goes the principle - one man, one voice, that's not controversial. So, in this sense, we really need to, uh, come up with a solution because actually not solving this problem 26 leads us all to problems. The solution to this problem, in my opinion, leads to the stabilising of political opportunities which will then certainly pave the way for and stabilise the economic opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and our overall progress. It won't go any different as soon as we're aware, which is just as persistent as we can in solving this issue before we come to a solution. I can't take the impression, unfortunately, that lately, that it's been a long time, where, despite these conversations being conducted, the most between, you know, two parties already, that didn't result in a final agreement, even though there was a strong and good progress in one part of those conversations, but now we're where we are. All that I've been saying, this, when it comes to this law, it's come true in the end, that it is true. So, at the very least, no one, believe me, from the Club of the Croatian People is going to suggest anything that would be contrary, which would hurt the interest of any constitutive people. However, here, in this case, so when it comes to the BiH presidency, when it comes to the election of envoys for the House of Peoples, the Constitutional Court has shown that we are absolutely right. I'm sorry that I also heard the other day, uh, statements from a high-ranking person from, here, our partner party, the Party of Democratic Action, that this Law will not be accepted. And it's not that this law won't be accepted, it's a bigger problem if we're going to get some other proposal, so, which will respect this and ultimately respect the Constitutional Court's decision. So, we have no moment and we never argue and we have not claimed that decisions should not be implemented, or European Court of Human Rights rulings, so we have three rulings, but this proposal does not treat this matter and this one, and it is not possible to resolve, I guess it is whiteish, clear as day, that it is not possible to resolve these European Court of Human Rights rulings without changing the Constitution. We're open to the amendments to the Constitution, but we know what it's supposed to be, if we know what most of us need, and we know how fragile it is, unfortunately, that most of us are now in the House of Representatives. Here, in that sense, I don't take any more, here's to not wasting my time, so, because my colleagues and colleagues have said a lot, I think, and in that sense I'm going to suggest one conclusion at the end, and why would I suggest it? I was thinking whether or not to suggest it, but I think it opens three types, so three options opens up for a solution to this problem, depending on how the House of Representatives reacts. So, I hope there will be enough votes when, here, we plead, and I will suggest, therefore, one conclusion and the House of Representatives. – The home of the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Election Law No 02-02-1-1133 as of 28 April 2017 by an urgent procedure. Why? If this Law really wants to be adopted, it can be accepted by an urgent procedure and passed. Unless it really wants to be accepted, I know there's enough votes in the House of Representatives that he won't be accepted, so at least we can save time, at least save time, if it's really the point and the goal of not passing this Law. Of course there is a third variant on the MPs, uh, that they return it to the regular procedure, in the phase, of the commission phase, and that then, whether or not, this law is being discussed and, in that case, of course, there is the possibility of an amendment action. He would then probably be adopted in various texts at both homes, we would form committees from one home and another and try to come up with harmonised attitudes in order to have this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3196	Thank you. I give my word to the esteemed deputy chairman, Mr. Safet Softić. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3197	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, gentlemen of delegates, dear guests, media representatives, I welcome you all. This seems to me to be too important a subject to accompany her in this way, to approach the vote today without any explanation regarding this Law. In fact, in the previous two months, how long it took to raise this issue of vital national interest by the Bosniaks Club, which is, in itself, being launched by all five delegates of the Bosniak People's Club, which sends a certain message within the meaning of this Electoral Law proposal, we have had the opportunity in public space, in the media space, everything we have to say about this law in question and we have shown it less, more and more in various dialogues. And I wouldn't really comment here on certain, certain comments that concerned the way the media represents all of this that we're talking about. So, we here in the regular legislative procedure have amendments to the Electoral Law proposed by an authorised promoter, by, uh, the Club of Croatian Delegates and which, in some ways, has made one package that corresponds to the promoter in terms of his interests and everything else, and certain remarks, but, behold, we have witnessed earlier in this debate how little it takes to light a bigger fire in connection with this issue between our two delegates, Mr Raguž and Mr Babalj, when we usually launch this one, these big questions that I think there is absolutely no need for us to, in this way, discuss them and, in this way, to discuss this. In fact, we have said in our appeal, and we thought that this and the Constitutional Court would confirm it, we have spoken and expressed our opinion, our own opinion and our will not to resolve this question, the issues that are ahead of us, which are the subject of amending electoral legislation. And what is particularly important in my perspective and the view of this whole issue is the way that the Proposer does it. In fact, since the first day we received the Law in parliamentary procedure, it's really not clear to me, here and today, after these explanations, I patiently listened to all the discussions about this, I really don't understand why the motioner is such an important substance, such an important law, such a law that can cause certain recommendations, so if you want to disagree with our views on all this, why did he put it in an emergency procedure? Why did he deny me as a delegate or anyone else sitting in this House to intervene on the proposal of this law? Why is it that when we know that electoral legislation is of its own importance, it is essentially right behind the Constitution of a country? How is it possible to amend electoral legislation in a way that you prepare something in the form of these amendments and additions, and that we have no right to intervene at all? These acrobatics that concern the House of Representatives, turning into a regular procedure, etc., that is, but we are like the House of Peoples who, in some way, are here, to represent the will of the people in some clearer form, we, as the House of Peoples, should, in my assessment, have the opportunity to intervene with the amendments on all of this. And in the end, however this ends today, and we all know more how this will end at this House, we all know, too, and here we mention, that, uh, how this ends at the House of Representatives, so this House is probably going to go through today, at the House of Representatives I don't believe there are, that there are political mathematics that can lead to this, in an emergency, or in a regular procedure to pass this Law. And in the end, when we narrow down the account, when we see where those were spent, I don't know, about five or six months, then we'll actually figure out that we spent half a year for nothing and then we're back at the beginning of that same story. So, as far as this Interresor parliamentary group, this one, sounds, here's what Mr. Babalj said, people don't respond, they don't come, they don't show interest, no matter how pointless it seems, I don't think there's another time to change the electoral legislation, but that 28 stories involve all those who do, this, parliamentary and political life of one country. Therefore, I respect the Constitutional Court's decision, we have not manipulated any mechanisms to protect vital national interest, we thought that these amendments to electoral legislation, like these, introduce new discrimination that prevents, uh, people from individual cantons from being elected and delegated, and we have done so. The Constitutional Court has decided as it has decided, but I think we are wasting our time again and I think the path to resolving this issue is simply contained in all actors being involved in this story. So, as I said, we all know less of the outcome of this vote, today there will be at least eight votes for this law, in the House of Representatives that I suppose will come in September of the month, and if it is even a regular procedure or if there are some acrobatics rules with it, then we can expect that in October and November we will be at the beginning of this whole, whole process. It's kind of an explanation of our position. We will, of course, vote according to how we have announced it before, and in particular I say again, I point out this urgency of the procedure for which I really have no explanation and I have not yet received any explanation as to why the promoter designed it so, put it in the process. I think it has put the whole project at risk, so otherwise one mature parliamentary debate on this could be implemented to allow delegates and members of the House of Peoples, so here, and the House of Representatives, to have a significant impact on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3198	Thank you, Mr. Softić. Mr. Genjac, here you go. Excuse me, excuse me, please, Mr. Karamatić, have come forward for an amendment or something. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I'll do it very briefly. The esteemed vice-president, Mr. Softić, mentioned that he does not understand what kind of discrimination is involved, what is being corrected. Here's what I'm gonna say is one example. So, the bill, which was sent by the parties to the Croatian National Assembly, will never again allow the Western-Herzegovina County in which Bošnjak live on the number of statistical errors to delegate someone to the Bosniak Club. We so far, the HNS parties did not abuse it, one or two mandates the People's Party worked to improve it. In my opinion, this person was not a legitimate representative of the Bošnjak, and we are not going to elect representatives for you and expect the same from the other side. I hope there'll be so much understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3200	Thank you. Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3201	I thank the chairman. It is very, very ungrateful and difficult on such occasions perhaps even this,... circumstances to confirm and answer the rather complicated questions of nature of the House of Nations, whether it is only the House of Peoples or the House of Canton, the nature of election processes, the integrity of election processes, the legitimacy of 29 representatives, etc., so that I will not refer to some of the thesis that has been said, which may leave room for it to yet deplete with it. But what is the content of this matter and what we are talking about today, we have in front of us, therefore, the need to resolve certain electoral issues, the obvious need, which is strengthened by the accumulation of constitutional judgments that appear and do not resolve. And among them, perhaps in the most dramatic form and this verdict regarding Mr Ljubić's appeal to the House of Peoples in terms, and the subsequent abolition of two provisions of the Election Law by the Constitutional Court, which really raises the question of this second stage of elections, direct elections and whether the results of the elections can be established or implemented in the way the authorities are established, especially in the Federation. And there is this need indeed, there is a need to address the issue of manipulation with certain electoral irregularities as well as manipulation with ethnic representation and manipulation with, on the basis of the manipulative representation of choice in the House of Peoples by a person who, who only ethnically commit themselves for reasons to be elected to the House of Peoples, as already said in the Western-Herzegovic canton or some other canton, which is indeed a problem and what needs to be solved. There is a problem with the election of delegates from the order of the Serb people in the Federation for reasons that will never be enough for the number of elected or in a few cases not enough Serbian MPs in the canton parliaments to complete the number of 17 in the House of Peoples. So these are all the problems that are evident and therefore point to urgency or imperative solving these problems. However, I think that the way to get into the emergency procedure of the House of Peoples, which we claim to be the place of ensuring the rights of the people, the equality of the people, is to refer to the House of Peoples by emergency procedure such a law with such significant, dramaticly significant solutions and changes, I don't think it's a good way to go. And, of course, in that situation, it remains an option or you can turn it into a regular procedure, if that is not possible then you can express destruction by vital interest by finding the basis, however, in some of the questions that I will discuss afterwards. I think, too, that there is no way at a time when political dialogues are being conducted to, to leave these political dialogues and then to unilaterally approach the solution in this way... I don't think there's a solution, it's not roads good, there's no solution without dialogue, there's no honest dialogue, and there's no genuine readiness for political compromises in these difficult issues. I, after this Constitutional Court decision, what the Constitutional Court said, in terms of importance for the public to say, was not destructive in terms of procedure, there was a misunderstanding. The destruction is expressed in terms of the content of the Law because we really find in the content of the Law certain things that we think are harmful to us. The Constitutional Court has found that this is not destructive and we respect this Decision and this means that this Law in this House will be adopted by a simple majority without the need to have three votes in each club. But just a few comments on what's already been said, to explain. So, the Constitutional Court says, a solution offered when it comes to the election of delegates for the House of Peoples is based on the criteria of proportional representation according to the last census, which is unequivocally applied to all, does not lead to a more unfavourable position of members of the Bosniak people compared to the other two peoples, which would result in a violation of the vital national interest, according to the applicants of the statement. We have not stated that this solution brings the Bosniak people into a more unfavourable position than other peoples. This is indeed a principle that is the same for all nations. We have stated in a statement that this principle brings the Bosniaks from certain areas of the Federation into a more unfavourable position than the Bosniaks from other areas, making Bosniaks in one Federation space, bringing them into a position that they cannot be elected to the House of Peoples. That is, Bošnjak from Lebanon Canton, Bošnjak from Posavina Canton, in which there are three or four MPs from the Bosniak people in all elections, and under the Constitution of the Federation, it means that at least one of them must be, in this proposal they could not be elected to the House of Nations. So, it comes down to space, reducing the space from which Bošnjak can be chosen, reducing space. Be careful, now we can open a controversy that lasts among legal experts, including the Venice Commission, well, etc., election experts about it, but believe it with such a solution follows the European Court of Human Rights' appeal in terms of 30 new Zornić. The Bošnjak from Posavina or the Lithuanian Canton says – forgive me, I have been prevented from being nominated and elected to the House of People of the Federation and this is a violation of the Convention on the Human Rights of those elections protocols, the Civil Pact on Political Civil Rights and the European Court will rule. So we made that statement and we still think it is. We respect the Constitutional Court's decision, we respect the fact that it is not a difference or a more unfavourable position than other peoples, but it is also a fact of this. Furthermore, when it comes to Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac's verdict, it is difficult to carry out this, it is too long for us, however, and we believe that it is a legitimate political position, as we respect all other views legitimately, therefore, it is unacceptable for us to see the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the implementation of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac for a long time to assess that this is a constant opposition to the European Convention which we are bound by our Constitution and that we are in a situation of non-compliance with the European Convention, to adopt a solution that will further worsen the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of respecting the European Convention on Human Rights. It's not acceptable for us. It is difficult to implement the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac verdict, but there are solutions that have been proposed and which still represent the possibility of implementing that verdict. And in the end, uh, one-sided solutions, especially for Mostar City, believe me, this one, are causing suspicion. Creating electoral units that enable appropriate engineering, creating compensation lists that also enable engineering, is not the way to find a solution. Trust must be kept from such adventures. We may have lost two months because of this appeal, right, but the Interresor group has been working for almost a year to amend the Election Law and there was an opportunity to offer solutions before, let's say eight months and to discuss it there. I think that, if we knew by proposing this extensively and complicatedly with a significant content solution, it was also expected that, that it could not pass into the House of Nations and that it was not the way. Of course, uh, the ones we're dealing with, who we're talking about, we're obliged to offer alternatives and, of course, we have a prepared solution and we're going to offer it after we see what happens to this, with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3202	Thank you. Did Mr. Karamatić have anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3203	Of course, I had, I can't let my words get turned absolutely, so this is literally the correcting of the wrong quote. I, when I mentioned the Western Hercegovina on purpose, did not want to mention certain counties that are dominantly Bosniak, but only took an example of how this, here is the county that is over 95% dominantly Croatian, is happening. However, I did not mention the presentation for the sake of the elections, distinguished fellow Genjac, means, even through the People's Party, the work for improvement came from Western Herzegovina from the ethnic Bosniak, the distinguished Mrs. Mukades Anadolac, and it never happened that the Hrvat sent Josip and Ante to the Club of Bošnjak and that they were sitting in the Club, and I will remind you that in the Federal House of the People and Today sits Mirvet and Edin, which are not traditional Croatian names. I do not dispute these two gentlemen that they are Hrvat if they want to, I challenge me neither of those BPS gentlemen, Sefer Halilović, who have declared themselves in Canton of Sarajevo as Srbin, and then the Central Election Commission said that they cannot change the nationality from one cycle to another, that 31 must go on for at least four years while these strong national feelings work, means at least every four years to change, not every two years. So we had a situation from our party when it couldn't be declared from one election cycle to another, so it ended up in others, etc., etc. Furthermore, you mentioned the arguments you made. All the arguments your esteemed club has sent, the Constitutional Court has assessed and found that they are unfounded. In my view, it is one thing, the only thing, is that, regardless of what the SDA has never done, to point out, the SDA has never allowed itself to try these electoral manipulations, changes in identity, etc., to influence the Croatian Club or Croatian electoral will of boredom, however, I am not saying that it is doing this now, but obviously it does not want to give up that possibility. The way in which this country would go, if we're going to think about it in a way that I in Western Herzegovina think more about how I'm going to name Bošnjak and Srbin and someone from the order of the others in the Federation House than what the economic situation is. In Tuzla canton, and now not to count, they are mostly thinking about how to secure these six or seven Croatian hands so that they can do what is the rule in 2010 and 2000. It's not a good way, it's not a good way, and that's the way to lead this country, and now I'd say it, and I can't use any expression to not be rude, and I'm gonna stop here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3204	Thank you. The word has been given to the Honorable Chairman of this House, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3205	Well, I'm going to make a quick reference, that is, to correct the wrong allegation. In fact, we can either respect or disrespect the Constitutional Court's decisions, but I think we have to respect it. So, I don't think we should interpret it in a way that this maltene is even more discrimination right now, it may not have been used, but in that sense it's said by Mr. Genjac, and that's simply not true. So, this proposal respects precisely legitimacy and the House of Peoples has very clearly underlined in this decision and all decisions so far, so this previous December 1st last year, a legitimate choice and said that the House of Peoples is not home to the canton, but home to the constituent peoples. Therefore, the provision of the Election Law was deleted, it was put out of force, which it says - each canton will be one at a time. Well, it says so, we can't interpret it any different now, not at all. So, if that's the case, I really don't mind, here's what my fellow Genjac says, that you should pick a Bošnjak from Livna or Posavina, but there lives by the current percentage of 0.5% of Bošnjak, in order to be one elected takes 5.88. In other words, if we had direct elections, then one election unit for one Bošnjak in the House of Peoples should have 90,000 inhabitants. At the same time, when it comes to Hrvat, there should be 30 thousand, and for Srbin only 3.5 thousand because 17 is the same number. So, I don't mind, but in that case we need to change the Federation Constitution, that if one of the people wants to be one, two or more envoys from one, one region can do it, but now the Constitution needs to be changed. So, we can make a very simple ad hoc session of all Bošnjak, all Hrvat or all Srbin chosen or others and where you want, uh, to be positioned, you can not be one but two, but no, with this kind of choice affecting the illegal choice on the other side. That's very clear in the Constitutional Court Decision. I think we need to be correct here, and we need to be precise, and I don't think there's any point in polymizing with the Constitutional Court's decision now. Here, thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3206	Thank you, too. The word has a distinguished colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3207	Well, not to have a misunderstanding, of course, as I pointed out very clearly, the Constitutional Court's decision is that and it has to be respected. However, there is one other thing, and Mr. Čolak as a lawyer will probably, uh, we understand ourselves, the issue of disabling one nation from some territorial space to be elected somewhere and chosen is indeed subject to appropriate appeals in terms of constitutionality and respect for conventions. That's what I was talking about. You know, we have the Institute of Destruction by vital interest, we have the Institute of Appeals of Constitutionality or respect for the conventions of the appropriate. So that's it, because I say, I emphasized it at the beginning, to open the polemics, and here at this time about the nature of the House of Peoples and what it is and how ungrateful it is, but I remain in it to implement the Constitutional Court Decision, we will already today, by our act of voting, we will implement the Constitutional Court Decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3208	Thank you. The word has been given to the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3209	Uh, I hope I never answer this many times. But please, Mr. Genjac, be precise when you talk about Sejdić-Sejdić-Fincija, when you talk about European Court decisions there is an opportunity to run and distinguish here the possibility of running from the choice. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3210	The word in terms of the second correction of the wrong allegation has a distinguished colleague Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3211	That is exactly what Mr. Čolak, fulfils the obligation that Bošnjak and Hrvat from all over the Federation may be chosen is a request before us that should... so that they can be chosen. Because this proposal excludes Bošnjak from Posavina and Livna and Hrvat, for example, from the Sarajevo Canton. So, just so I can be, that I can be run, that's a request ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3212	Who else do we have? There's only a little bit of Mrs. Džambas to blame the quote or the replica of what it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3213	Well, I won't, I really don't want to be like that, but Mr. Genjac, I'm replicating you, I'm actually not replicating you, but here's the thing. So, it's impossible from all territories, here we've seen 33 Constitutional Court decisions, but that's why there's this House of the People of the State, so you wouldn't be in the Bosniak Club four from Sarajevo, so you have the opportunity to choose from the abandoned areas, right, so you'll say now we're going to the House of the Peoples of the Expensive, here's just a colleague from western Bosnia. So four of you from the House of the Peoples are from Sarajevo, so you could give some place to the House of the Peoples of Livna or Posavina. So you have the possibility of repairing you, not our damage.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3214	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Mr. Genjac, replica, come on, replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3215	Mrs. Jambas The House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina is just the subject of a European Court of Human Rights verdict, which we must implement, because Bošnjak from Republika Srpska and Hrvat from Republika Srpska, and Srbin from the Federation cannot be in the House of Peoples. If they accepted these solutions, the House of the Federation would be subject to such consideration in the European Court of Justice. That's what I'm talking about. Furthermore, as you know the Constitution and the Electoral Law have prescribed that 5 Bošnjak and 5 Hrvat are elected from the entire Federation as an electoral unit, and 5 Srbin from the entire Republika Srpska area as an electoral unit. And the Federation Parliament, namely the Federation Constitution and the Election Law, has prescribed that delegates in the Federation House be elected 17 from the canton as territorial units. And that's the problem we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3216	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. We have a report from Mr. Karamatić for the hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3217	Well, here, I really didn't mean to participate in the debate, I tried through these corrections of the wrong quote, but obviously it's not working, so let's start over. All we've tried to do with this bill is bring the story of where it belongs, and that's this respectable home. To talk about how this decision should be respected, how that decision should be respected is Phariseeism, it is not about whether it is about respecting the decision on Sejdiću-Fincija-Finci, Pilav, this, that, but that one people wants to continue to have the opportunity to impose representatives in the government and in the legislative bodies. As for the presidency member, twice, the Bosniak people had been imposed twice by their votes by Hrvat to members of the presidency. That possibility wants to be kept. A very simple analyst can come to the conclusion that then the elected member of the Bureau received a marginal number of votes where there are Hrvat, a comparison of the number of Hrvat and the number of Croatians, the parties with the Croatian sign and the number of votes he had cast, so at the level of about five, six, ten thousand votes maximumly held, and he could carry more than 300 thousand votes. That's a possibility he wants to stay. As far as the people's homes are concerned, I just mentioned some details, I'm not going to talk about them right now. As for the City of Mostar, a respected colleague of Genjac, he mentioned as unacceptable. Now let me explain, here's why he's unacceptable. It is unacceptable until the Constitutional Court's ruling wiped out what it did now and with the people's homes, the then 720-seat party in Mostar received two 34 MPs in the Mostar City Council, 720 votes from the election unit in Mostar. 2,400 votes were then required by the HSP from another constituency unit to get one. That's the possibility of someone running. Run for the son of a mother, but it means in one election unit where the dominant Hrvat needed two, almost two and a half thousand votes for one representative in the City Council, while from an electoral unit where the Bošnjak had to take 720 votes for two and the Constitutional Court said that this was not equal to the value of the vote or approximately. The basics of mathematics say it's not equal or approximate, the OHR would probably interpret that it's pretty close to one-third, but let's not go into detail right now. Proposed amendments to the Election Act for Mostar City, regardless of which Hrvat are the majority in Mostar, according to our proposal, which we have referred to in the procedure cannot have more than 15 representatives in the City Council. I note that 15 is not even half of the City Council. Who are we doing this to discrimination? There is no discrimination, all the important decisions are made by a two-thirds majority. I'll tell you what it's all about, it's about not being able to secure most of the Mostar City Council with fewer votes and share positions, and among other things to be open to regrets or SDAs, and HDZ is not in any hurry to conduct elections in Mostar, only to the people who live downstairs. He's in a hurry to a public company that's trying to charge for a parking lot in Mostar, and he can't charge for it because there's no City Council that can make a decision about charging a parking lot, it can't be done by the mayor. They're in a hurry. The point of my address is, today we have the opportunity, and below, of course, this procedure, to pass the law, no matter whether it be this or another, as Honorable colleague Čolak said, which will ensure the legitimate representation of the people of this country. I warn you all, if once again someone in this country dares to impose representatives on others, it will be the end of this country, I hereby say to you. You mentioned just before the Energy Community, problems with the Transport Community, with this, with that. Why? Someone wants to skip someone. Well, that can't happen in this country. This is a country of three peoples. If we're going to talk about the canton's consistency, let's play some games. In the Canton Constitution, he writes fine, for example, my county of West Herzegovina is a federal unit within the Federation of BiH. Well, if we're going to play a referendum, so why don't we split up a little bit from that Federation, what does it bring us? When he says we are going into European integration, he bangs there some federal minister of the former, the truth has been removed, in this term he was out, he says we will set up a European Integration Ministry. Hello, the boy you asked, where are your county opinions? And then someone says -- no, he says, we are for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are against the federalisation mentioned by the European Parliament in Resolution. Hello boy, your country is called the Federation of BiH, Republika Srpska and a third entity within Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is called the Brcko District, which is a condom, which is neither the Federation nor Republika Srpska, but is under the jurisdiction of the state alone. There's someone here who's worried about being able to run. Can you run to the Brcko District, can I ask you? You have passed an absolutely unconstitutional law that will condemn an intern who has graduated from law, let alone the Constitutional Court in Strasbourg, where citizens of Brcko District, who, I repeat, are not the Federation or Republika Srpska, are obliged to define themselves as one of the citizens. So he must be a citizen or a Republika Srpska or a Federation. Why did you do that? Well, I'll tell you very simply, you can manipulate the vote. So the "Great Country" coalition goes, and all of a sudden, Bošnjak and Hrvat in Brcko all signed up for Republika Srpska. So the local elections come, here they come back to you. So it's not okay, let's let the people decide who should sit in this House, who should sit in the county assemblies, who should sit in the Federal Parliament, in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska and the House of Representatives, and don't let us impose on us the malversions of various, arrangements under the table we do this with each other, it's not normal, it's not normal for Hrvat to impose Bošnjak on representatives. I note, I was just not talking about false 35 representations, but only about legitimacy when I mentioned the Western Herzegovina... And today he sits at the Serbian Club in the Federal Parliament, an envoy from Western Herzegovina, an ethnic Srbin to avoid confusion, has always been an ethnic Srbin, it is not a legitimate representative, whom he can represent. Realistically, we have three MPs in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament representing the Serbian people and coming from a party with a Serbian omen. These are all just a bunch of cults, mambos, jumbos, and they send them away, they rip them out, you look at the names, they look at everything. So it doesn't matter if this law goes away, whether it goes away, if it becomes aware there are those who weren't aware that we'll be in a post-election position that there won't be a federal government, that there won't be a home of any people, no federal, no state, and that we have a country in a blockade. Is that in anyone's interest? If it's in someone's interest, it's no problem. If we're going to end interstate agreements like what we just did with meat exports, just before I mentioned it, family friends do it, so no public competitions, no meeting any conditions, if you want to make such a country I won't be in it, and this is my country, and you're going to have to make a good square meter of me to take, and then we'll see. And we'll make a deal with who we can make a deal with. It's mentioned here and the flag binding. To be open to the end of this constitutional court ruling concerning the referendum, so let's be honest and say that when I say we Hrvat and Musliman were not yet Bošnjak, later Bošnjak, brutally revoted Srbin, it happened then. So then the war started, we Hrvat against Srbin, in Sarajevo they said it wasn't our war wait a little bit just to admit we were all solved. Well, come on, so you got involved in the war, so we stopped with the Srbin a little bit, so you and I, a respected fellow Genjac, was then one of the fragments that didn't have enough Hrvat in the Zenic-Doboj County today that I could... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3218	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3219	...two envoys, released for more than three minutes... to finish, nor is there in the Croatian canton of Sarajevo that I can give an envoy. Why isn't there? Someone pushed them out, let's just say, there are no more people here. Well, then you and I fought Srbin again. That is not the way, the way is to sit down and agree on how to be satisfied and representatives of the Serbian people and of the Bosniak and Croatian, as well as their voters. I assure you that politics cannot be guided by comments made by some from Sweden and Norway and are calling for a new conflict here. You won't get the people's event if the Hrvat have their own channel as part of the Public Service, you won't get it if the Hrvat can choose their own legitimate representatives. The only question is do you want to agree to it? We'll see about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3220	Thank you. There are no more reports to discuss on this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. 36 We will now vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please initiate the plea mechanism. Of the 14 present – for it was 8, against 4, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, none against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Election Law has been adopted. Now we're going to make a statement about the proposal for a conclusion I've read. Should I read it one more time? So, I propose to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to adopt the following conclusion – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Law of BiH, issue: 02-02-1-1133 since 28.04.2017. Please initiate the plea procedure. Of the 14 present – 7 were for, against 5, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3221	.. I have to advertise on behalf of my colleague Raguž, he's not in the O.R., and it turns out he's been held back and he hasn't made a statement at all about this... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3222	Ah, wait, we have to repeat the plea, just a little bit. Out of the 13 – for there were 7 against 6, there were no abstentions. So from the Federation of BiH – 4 for, against 4, no one abstentioned, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, 2 against, no one was abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that this conclusion has received the necessary majority, so we will refer this bill to the House of Representatives by emergency procedure. We're going to point three, so we're going to point three, that's Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Interentity Road Transport (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2509/16, from 28/09/2016 and 25/01/2017. At the last 30th session held on 30.06.2017, during the examination of the Commission report, the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport (second reading) adopted the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on international and inter-entity road transport returns to the re-trial in the relevant commission in the amendment phase. 37 2. The deadlines prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the People's House shall apply from the date of adoption of this conclusion. This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the text of the bill along with five amendments and proposed its adoption to the House. At its 38th session, held on 30.11.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the draft law in a second reading together with three amendments. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships to the House of Peoples, if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Since there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We will now vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on international and inter-entity road transport in the second reading. Please initiate the plea mechanism. Is someone looking for a reenactment? Please, we'll do it again. So from the 13-six present, it was for, against 5, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, no one against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 5 against and no one abstention. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3226	... It wasn't recorded, we didn't achieve consent... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3227	Well, we haven't reached agreement and I've said it already, but maybe some haven't heard well. Let's go, then, to the second round of pleas. 38 So from the 13 present – for it was 6, versus 5, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, no one against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – no one for, 5 against and no abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. I am establishing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport has not been adopted in the second reading. Now we move on to the next one, that's the point of the four agenda today, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control (first reading) – Proposer: Temporary joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, of 26.05.2017. This is the first reading of the bill. Therefore, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and that it is formally in line with the Single Rules for making legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional Commission of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and proposed, and supported, excuse me, the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives adopted the bill in its first reading at the 48th session, held on 05.07.2017. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples. So, like in the report. Thank you. I'll give the word to the proposer if there's any need. No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Whether or not they have been reported for debate under this agenda item. There's no reports, there's no reports, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ambassador Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3229	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Since it's about first reading and how this law is one of the laws that no one in the region has, I think more than that, I think we should say a few words, and all for reasons why if this law goes through in the second reading not to leave any doubt, because I think there's a lot to be done and we should get one quality law, if it's even possible to get a quality law. I remind you that the Commission was formed in October 2015, that it started working somewhere in April 2016 and, behold, in July 2017, we have a law that is foreseen in the first reading. What is clear to all of us is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is achieving a representative and control function, creating mechanisms for more effective control of government and stifling the bad sides of democracy, and we all know that changes in habits and consciousness are a 39 complex process especially in societies that have not clearly defined their basic values and objectives. If we look at this law that we have, and what's... envisaged, I'm in certain dilemmas that I'm going to make today, since the law is in the first reading, and I think it'll help, whether it's working group or someone else, to try to get something that's very good. I will krenuće with the latest provisions, which says that, in the final and transitional provisions, where all legal and sublegal acts, including the Rules of Procedures of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, will be brought into line with this Law over the next six months. What's my basic dilemma about this law? If we adopt a law like this, it involves a whole series of interventions in other legal decisions and sublegal solutions. I must also say that at the same time this House and the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has also formed the Interim Commission for the Making of Rules of Procedure and this activity is taking place, as this parliamentary group, which has proposed this Law on Parliamentary Oversight, is very difficult to do. And one of my motives that I'm even trying to explain why I'm going to support this today is because of my colleagues who actively participated in this Law and made a certain contribution to this Law being found before us today. What I'm trying to say, and I'm starting with Article 1, is completely inaccurate and I think it requires a lot of intervention, to precisely define who this law refers to so that there is no conflict in the application of the law itself. Furthermore, the entities carrying out parliamentary supervision are also inaccurate if it were to be adopted in this form as proposed in the law, I think it would leave a lot of room for defining who is responsible for what and who performs a certain kind of surveillance. If we reach Article 10 concerning the authority of the body carrying out parliamentary oversight, then I must say that it is, they are the provisions of Article 34. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. This is what various commissions do, both permanent and joint, and they are defined through it. Article 13 on, the procedure on the recommendations of the BiH Institutions Audit Office is defined by Article 41. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Interactive communication and visits to supervised institutions are also being done by commissions and is now also in use. Method of conducting parliamentary oversight, Article 35. The Rules of Procedure, and he's talking about a public hearing. There's nothing new in the law except what it says in our offices. You have parliamentary or delegate issues, interpretations, also regulated by the Rules of Procedures of Articles 155, 156 and 157. Article 39th submission and consideration of the interpretation was also resolved by Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure. The vote on mistrust and the need to reconstruct the Council of Ministers of BiH, it was a debate when the Rules of Procedure was passed in the previous period, the vote on mistrust and the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Council of Ministers fully defined the area. And finally, so we come to what I have said, Article 68, that within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Law, the Parliamentary Assembly will coordinate all its legal and sublegal acts. I'm often in a dilemma that sometimes out of great madness we come into a collapsing of what's factual and what's legal. I don't think that, and I don't doubt the good intentions of achieving a high degree of control, because it is the basic function of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but as this law is set up, it regulates it, and you saw from what I said, it is regulated by other and legal and sublegal acts. I wasn't talking about other laws that also treat this area. For that reason, I believe there is much to be done in this law. Is it possible to do this in the amendment phase? I'm not sure, because it requires a lot of intervention to come to a consistent text of the law. My opinion, let's, since we've entered this area, try to give us a chance to get to it, but not this way as it's done so far, because I think we should apply a comparative method of working these kind of acts, so we can define exactly what we're doing, what we can define by this law, and we don't have 40 powers that can create a conflict of jurisdiction tomorrow, and then we don't know what we're doing and what our goal is. Here, in short, I tried to analyze the Law and I think it's just a good intention, and what we see in realisation isn't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3230	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. No more reported for discussion on this agenda point, I'm closing the debate. Now we'll get to the bottom of this bill in the first reading. Of the 13 present, there were 12, no one against, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, there were no votes against, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposed Law on Parliamentary Oversight was adopted in the first reading. We're going to point five, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-946/17, dated 05.04.2017. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 46th session, held on 31.05.2017. I give the word to Mr. Radmanović, if he appreciates his needs. Now I give my word to the Reporter if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Here's Mr. Genjac's call. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3232	I thank the chairman. The last time we came to this point of the agenda, we decided to postpone the debate for the reason that there was no representative of the Management Board of the IGA. Do we have a representative of the board of directors today? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3233	Nothing if it doesn't. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3234	So we don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3235	The Rules of Procedure now say that we should make a statement about whether or not we are going to follow the adoption procedure? First we have to make a statement about it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3236	When I answered, I, I think that, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3237	What's your suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3238	So my proposal is that, this, given that an investigative committee has been formed at the House of Representatives on this matter, my proposal is that today and without a representative of the Management Board, we turn to the most important facts of this report and make a statement on the Report. Well, the board of directors, let's say, that's my suggestion, because, uh, those facts that we draw attention to, in the light of the fact that there is an investigative commission. Or, therefore, depending on how many decide to postpone their arrival, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3239	Okay. I have realized to you that your proposal is that, however there is no, therefore, rapporteurs on this agenda point, we are going to continue to discuss and decide. We now need to make a statement about this proposal. I'm asking you to initiate the plea procedure, so do the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3240	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3241	Well, that's your suggestion. Here, I'll, I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3242	That's Halid Genjac's suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3243	Yeah, yeah. I supported a fellow Genjac. ____________ Whoever's against the session, he votes against it. Do you understand? Like this, we're, we're gonna do it again, we're gonna do it again. Here's the thing, I'll explain. A fellow Genjac suggested that we still discuss whatever is not here today, no one present 42 by the Board's rapporteur on this agenda item. And we're voting on that proposal now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3251	Thank you. Now, are we slow to apply, or are you quick to run it now is the question. Here, the one, not to pass without comment The report of a very important institution for democratic processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is certainly rounded up and methodologically content, but, uh, I want to make it clear, since it refers to the period when local elections have been held, that we cannot take the impression, this, that I am still the course of elections, the electoral process is not transparent enough. That it is still subject to significant political supervision and influence on the electoral bodies themselves and that this results in the demotivation of voters, great irregularities, the inability to clear things up. So in this context, I have to say, with all the efforts that people in the Central Election Commission are doing, I think the real situation on the ground when we see that it was possible to have an untransparent impact on the results of the election from Livna to some municipalities, that I'm not counting now. I want to keep that one small amount of reserve towards democratisation of the electoral process in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the obligation that we all of the amendments to the Election Law, which will not only concern these Constitutional Court rulings, but the way the electoral committees are drawn up, up to the voting conditions, must be subject when we are discussing these reports, but not taking the time, because I see that there are not a lot of reported ones, only the remaining reserves in view of the real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3252	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I give my word to the envoys of Zdenka Džambas. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3253	Well, I'd just, that's, I mean, it's not even a question, I don't know, a finding, she said, it's about a point that applied to our amendment to the election law. That the members of the Central Election Commission, the Central Election Commission, therefore, abstain from statements, because I really don't know how the Central Election Commission can be above the Constitution. So then comes the question of who's above, so we always have someone above the Constitutional Court, that it's not the Constitution and the Constitutional Court top, but it's now, it turns out, the Electoral Commission above the Constitutional Court's decisions and whether it will or won't implement some decisions of the Constitutional Court. It's something that's wrong. And to refrain from members, whatever their names are and who they are, from statements of such a type that are challenging to us, I will now say to the citizens, to the people, inconclusive of what is coming, that no such conclusion... I didn't know who would come from you, but it would really be 46 good and that it was clear that the Constitution is number one, Constitutional Court, and then all sublegal acts, legal acts that must be related to the Constitutional Court. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3254	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Now there are no more reports and now we're going to conclude the debate, but we're currently out of quorum. We can't... Look, the only way I can give a short break, five minutes or, here, is if someone calls their colleagues to come in. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, five minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3257	We did.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3258	Eh, colleagues and colleagues continue to work. We're going to the ninth point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3259	It's just that this is already a debate, now it's just a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3260	The debate is, the debate is over because now it's just a statement, we didn't have a quorum, so we gave this pause for that reason. Now, we're going to get to the bottom of this ninth item on the agenda. So, we are voting on the 2016 report on the implementation of the law of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with the recommendations contained in it. Of the 14 present – for there were 13, without votes against, 1 vote was abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am contaminate the report on the implementation of the law in the central election commission for 2016, together with the recommendations contained in it, has been adopted. We're going to the tenth item of today's session, Ad. Ten. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – applicant: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1227/17, of 12.05.2017. 47 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission accepted the report and adopted the following conclusions: 1. The Joint Committee on Human Rights in co-operation with the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina will organise a roundtable on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to which all interested authorities, NGOs and other institutions will be invited. 2. A report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 should be submitted to the competent prosecutors for handling and on their responsibilities stemming from this report. 3. The Joint Committee on Human Rights tasks the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide complete information on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, covering general data relating to the treatment of old foreign currency savings personal data until the next session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at the follow-up of the 48th session, held on 05.07.2017. I give my word to the President of the Joint Committee on Human Rights at the House session if there is any need. There isn't. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if there's a need. No, I don't. Thank you. I'm closing the hearing because there are no reports. We now declare ourselves, therefore, on the 2016 report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of the 13 who were present, all 13 were for, therefore, no votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 votes to, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the 2016 report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We are now voting on the conclusions of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. Please initiate the plea mechanism. You can plead. Of the 13 who were present, all 13 were for, again, no votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and abstention, from Republika Srpska – 5 votes to, without votes against and abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find the conclusions of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have been adopted. Moving to the 11th point of today's agenda, 48 Ad. 11. Amendment and addition of the Annual Plan for Training and Exercise of Members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-1362/17, since 29.05.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3265	Here, since they're...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3266	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3267	Well, maybe it would be good.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3268	Here you go. Here you go. Mr. Odobašić, right? Deputy Chief Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3269	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegations members of this high House, members of the Council of Ministers, or ministers, and other guests. I am Izet Odobašić, deputy head of the Special War Crimes Department in the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, Gordana Tadić, who is also V.d. Chief Prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I apologize on her behalf that she could not join the session today, since 13 when she received a call from this high house, she already had planned duties abroad and is abroad. I would like to make a few notes at this time, and I believe that this, this high House should be aware of this information, because we who come from the judicial authorities highly appreciate the role that the legislative authority plays in co-operation with the authorities of the judiciary in terms of ensuring quality legislative tools that we need in the exercise of our functions and in terms of ensuring from the necessary material and financial, human and other conditions that we can perform those functions that the law has given us, which, like this, one of the pillars of power together with the legislative, executive authority, we have in the overall exercise of power in the constitutional system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome you and thank you for this opportunity and it is my honor to address this high House and to say on behalf of Prosecutor Gordana Tadić that in 2016, therefore, it was a very complex and difficult year in the functioning and operation of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Namely, you all know that there have been some problems in the work of the Prosecutor's Office that eventually led to the suspension of the chief prosecutor and the disciplinary procedure is under way, and I would not have talked about the procedure, as the chief prosecutor, as well as all other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has the right to the presummation of innocence until this is over, and Prosecutor Gordana Tadić was appointed as acting in office at the end of September 2016. It is a person who, having more than 30 years of experience as a prosecutor, one responsible, honest, responsible and honest professional, and our assessment, which we are working on in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, as a top regulatory body in the judiciary, has made a good choice because this has shown the results that followed in the handling of the BiH Prosecutor's Office's situation in the period until the end of the year. Because indeed, the prosecutor Tadić, along with us working with her and all the prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutors who gave her really one open support, managed to stabilise the situation, to preserve the basic functions of the institution, means that we can do our job, and at the same time she found over a hundred cases that had not been given in the work of prosecutors in the Prosecutors' Office 50 BiH, deployed these cases, then ensured that the shortcomings and injuries made in the work were addressed in very complex and, I would say, the most complex cases of organised crime, economic crime and corruption, and that the work on these cases should be brought to that end in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure and Other Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and indeed, did, in some reports, change prosecutors. In this, as I say, the setting up of the situation has established that certain prosecutors, whether through previous proceedings in cases, or in their behaviours and deviations in current cases or in public discourse, act in a way that violates their role and powers prescribed by the Code of Criminal Procedure which violates their own, which violates the Code of Prosecutor's Ethics and violates the integrity of the prosecutor's office. And prosecutor Tadić did not hesitate to initiate disciplinary proceedings against such prosecutors and make changes, initiate suspensions of a number of prosecutors. It is a small number of prosecutors, and unfortunately some have been high-ranking and it has shaken really, uh, functions in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but we can say that now, after 10 months, since the prosecutor's duties have been taken over and what measures and actions she has taken in terms of resolving the situation that we now have one situation that we can manage the situation in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that we can go to even better results. You have one, i.e., you have, I apologize, one Information which paints what we and Prosecutor Tadić have done in management as..., wanted to show as one, overall review of the situation and as one basic basis for ours, for our annual and medium-term plan, because we wanted the legislative body, meaning the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so both homes which effectively perform the functions of the Bosnia and Herzegovina legislature, can have a review of the situation so that it can draw certain conclusions in its legislative activity in terms of considering possible changes to the rules, which are the tools of prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutors' Office, and also in terms of giving one material-financial support to the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the future, because we certainly know what we should and how we can make the results to be much better than they actually are. And in 2016, we appreciate that we have achieved, without being immodest, good results, because despite all these difficulties, 194 charges against 375 persons have been filed and 41 charges have been brought against persons who have committed crimes of war crimes, 86 charges against 179 persons who have committed acts of organised economic crime and corruption or terrorism and 66 charges against 81 persons from various other areas of crime, from smuggling across borders, etc. However, the Prosecutor's Office, of course, in 2016 did not only work to bring charges, nor is it, of course, the only obligation of the Prosecutor's Office known to this high House. The Prosecutor's Office, therefore, is in charge of the proceedings and is also taking orders not to carry out an investigation or order to suspend the investigation and to suspend the investigation, which is, of course, in accordance with the law, because in those cases, the Prosecutor's Office has not established the existence of the grounds for the investigation, or has not established sufficient evidence, or for some other reasons, has had an obligation to suspend the proceedings. In this way, by acting on the prosecution, of course, it must ensure legal certainty and the suspicion of innocence because, of course, everyone, until it is... that there is enough evidence in the legal procedure, out of respect for his fundamental human rights, cannot be charged. We can say that the prosecution's success in last year's review and that the quality of the indictments was 94.3% because, uh, that ratio of the number of confirmed and denied indictments and that the average standard for last year was reached from 138.97%. Also, when quality is measured in another way, and it is measured through the question of convictions and in the past year there have been 177 convictions on charges of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, 177 convictions of which are 164 convictions, meaning 93%, and all more than 85%, lawyers who have legal experience, are considered excellent in terms of quality, with more than 365 people convicted. In addition, 98 plea agreements were concluded with 160 persons and these agreements were confirmed by the court. 51 I say that one of the primary functions of the chief prosecutor's office, and we who work with it, of course and most prosecutors, were to preserve the stability of the institution's functions. We appreciate it that we have done and we will continue to insist that prosecutors must respect, first of all, their actions, to act legally, to respect human rights and freedoms of those involved in the proceedings whether they are persons reported, suspects, or damaged and, of course, respect the Code of Prosecutor's Ethics. Of course, we are in charge, and we will do this, to ensure that they are free to perform their duties, but they are obliged to preserve independence and integrity, this, and impartiality in the performance of those functions, and we also expect, both from the legislative and executive authorities, and from the public, to help prosecutors and, uh, to prevent prosecutors from being victims of pressure and to question their independence in carrying out their responsible, responsible work. Of course, in all of this we will not hesitate that those who are not in general obviously able to comply with these high standards and criteria, to initiate disciplinary procedures. In this we have great support of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the proceedings we have initiated, I apologize, I will now finish, and the procedures we have initiated show that we are ready to be in our ranks, to deal with those who are not worthy of the prosecution's office to deal with. I, after all, just want to thank this high House and the BiH Council of Ministers for providing us in the past year, at the end of the year, for helping us get the missing funds for exhumation because we didn't have enough of these funds, to thank the project of upgrading the former Special Unit of the Federal Ministry of Interior, where we intend, where the BiH Ministry of Justice is leading the project together with the High Court and Prosecutor's Council for setting up the Prosecutor's Office and for helping the European Union project to build a new building, which should be completed in August, complete and expect assistance in terms of equipment because I have to tell you that the prosecution is literally, prosecutors worked until last year in the basement rooms and employees. So much for now, I'm at your disposal if necessary to give you certain answers to certain questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3270	Thank you, thank you, Odobašić. Here's the report. First the esteemed colleague, Tadić, and then we'll go in order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear rapporteur. So, my practice so far has been to vote against such reports, and I think this explanation that we have received in relation to only a partial assessment of the work so far, especially the inherited situation between the two main prosecutors, is saying that I did not make a mistake, as well as other delegates, when we voted against your reports. I'm saying this because it's mentioned in your statement that we're calling politics and the rest of us, is, uh, to sort of relieve the prosecution's pressure and stuff. I must say, and I hope you will understand it, not as politics, but indeed as I said, so that others, among other things and politics, have not begun to deal with the work of the Prosecutor's Office, perhaps not you, but someone else, would stand behind this speaker today and praise Goran Salihović as you are now praising Gordana Tadić. So don't you run from the positive public influence on each of the institutions were those judicial, legislative or executive authorities. It has its purpose, your purpose, without it you lose the character of a democratic institution, and 52 The prosecution of whatever is part of the democratic order, so regardless of its authority and internal organisation. So it was just time to do what happened. Now, I speak on the basis of what you say, therefore, and on the basis of what I heard in public, and like you, I allow, of course, the authorities, the discipline and everyone else to decide who's guilty and who's not guilty. However, since you're really like this, it's hard to say honestly but openly, it's been talking about the problems you've been having, about the failures that have been made, I could also list the gaps from this period since Mrs. Tadić took over the role of chief prosecutor, everyone has the right to the 100 days. Since the problems with you have been made for years, much longer than one political mandate, I guess you get the right to more than 100 days from how much some executive authority gets, and since that period of your trial is still going on, I can confirm that, as this time, so unlike earlier times, as my colleagues from the Alliance for Change in the House of Representatives have done before, I will be restrained to show really one open preparedness, the will that if you are willing to do better, that it is not the policy that will draw you by your feet and say – do not work better. But it's all conditional, because tomorrow you find yourself in a situation to file the same report with the same words, in the next year it won't logically mean anything and we'll be back to square one again. Why is it almost simple for me to vote one way or the other? Well for one very unusual reason, all of our earlier voting unfortunately did not change the essence until the individuals of the Alliance for Change, even on a personal basis, openly clashed with the people of the D.A., trying to break up those entrenched relationships that led to what you, I say, were very open-minded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3272	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Who's next? Ambassador Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3273	Thank you very much, President. Well, on this occasion, I just want to say that today my question, which contains a question for some ten information that I have not been able to find in this report and, uh, expect a complete and quick, quick answer, with this, I would like to stress, that this information that I requested in my written, uh, memo that I sent to the D.A. to take into account for the next report and provide us with such a form of information that we all have available because it is very important information for the House of People that we have a transparent and content report on the cases and situation in the Prosecutor's Office. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3274	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. Next up is Mr. Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr Tadić said, I have so far had some tendency to vote against these statements and despite my very open speech, I will continue to do so, so there are no 53 doubts because you have not convinced me. Now, if I were someone I could ask what kind of prosecution this is where the prosecutor goes into evidence, takes the phone and takes it home. I'm not gonna ask that. Again, if I had one, I could ask what kind of prosecutor it is, that moral vertical of our society, that goes into the evidence room and takes the money he needs, not one. I won't ask that either. If I were some so I could ask the prosecution how many members of the army, how many HVOs, how many Republika Srpska armies are under the indictment of a joint criminal enterprise, to get that information I won't even ask, believe me, these would be defeating data for the prosecution. I will not ask how many members of the Republika Srpska Army, how many HVOs, how many BiH Army, have been charged under the old law that was valid in Yugoslavia, and how many per the new one that is more rigorous, I will not ask you that either. Why? Because I believe there may be a small, tiny hope that the D.A.'s office is starting to do its job. I'm not going to ask you any questions, though, using you, you asked for help in your address, here's a very precise help. So, on 02.03.2016 in 9 and 38, feel free to write to yourself, personally in SIPA and in the Prosecutor's Office submitted a criminal application on 24 pages with 30 evidence attached. Meanwhile, various reports have been processed, completed, rejected, irrelevant in order to end, I have handed it over for association to commit crimes, organised crime, association in order to obtain illegal benefits, abuse of powers and positions, etc., etc. And that day, so on 02.03.2016. when I handed in, nothing spectacular happened, in three days I received a letter from SIPA that they had checked the allegations and that they had also submitted the application to the prosecution. To this day, the D.A. hasn't responded. I've given myself a little motivation since we have a new lady as a prosecutor, here I'm going to ask the technical services that I'm not walking, no examples, there's a copy of my criminal application here, I'm asking the technical services to take to the D.A.'s office, and I'm going to say hello to the new D.A.'s office, and I hope for the next year that you will either act on this criminal application or that you will press charges against me for false application or anything, but I hope you will start doing your job for which you are very, very, very well paid, similar to us in Parliament, if not more. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3276	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Envoy Zdenka Džambas signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3277	As far as I understand it, we're taking this to the knowledge and so far we're not, uh, at least at our club, very reluctant to take the report to the knowledge, whether it's the High Court and the Prosecutor's Office or you prosecutors or the court at all. In the people, usually what happened last year, so maybe at the beginning of this year, what happens in the judiciary creates uncertainty, that legal uncertainty if you sue against each other, that you don't do the job that you're in charge of in that column far above all the other pillars, you're what's far above us, the other two, and then when, besides all this, you're still creating uncertainty, I now, what I like is that the main judge isn't a TV star, but I guess he's doing a job somewhere, I don't know, I don't see him on TV, it's gonna be work and there's no time to get on TV, which is good, let him do his job right. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, I'm not happy because now two years I've asked a question, no one is worthy to answer because it's not official, we can't because they don't respond, you're not ministers, and then you have to tell us whether or not you gave us an answer. I'm sensitive to missing persons, to all missing persons, it doesn't matter what those people are called, but I know exactly what the situation is, I say again from Central Bosnia, I'm talking about Bugojn, it's so many times it's being placed, it's rumored, it's verbally looking for an answer, just to say it in two sentences, it's not done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's respected me as an emissary, it's done to know that someone there's cared. 54 For I will only remind you a little, until two years ago 30 and several times families went out to false places where, where they are, where they are the Hrvat of Bugojan. So it takes so many times for the family to go through it all again. They won't give up, if the mothers of those sons are dead, not daughters, someone will fight for it all the time, and so I say, for all the missing persons, there are, as many as 6,000-7,000, which should be dealt with urgently because it's impossible to hide so well that it doesn't know where people are. So I'm not happy with the disrespect on that side. You're asking us, and it's okay, that the court and the prosecution are respected, and I'm really prone to the law, and I love that it's all settled by law, so here, maybe this new story will start, that you didn't become the main protagonist of the "Tračerica“, I mean the entire judiciary and the prosecution for ordinary citizens, that you started doing that job, that you're doing it better here, as Mr. Tadić said, and we're going to have to change the story a little because it certainly wasn't useful of them. In any case, I wish you every good, to be resolved as soon as possible, at least your area, so war crimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3278	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. He's a friend of Softić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3279	Here, very briefly to refer to this report. We are here as delegates, as representatives of the people invited to protect the public's interest and that in some way, in everything we do and what we say, what we discuss, we recognize what should be the public's interest. And last year when the D.A.'s report was on the subject of the previous year, I discussed here some of the problems that arise in the prosecution's work. I asked two or three, I think, questions, uh, directly to the representatives of the prosecution who were here. They told me they were not in a position to answer those questions immediately, but that they would deliver an answer in writing in the coming period. And, here, that period has been over a year and I never got answers and I don't know if it's any use asking questions that we're going to wait a year for an answer to. However, I would like to say that these people who work in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and who generally do this job should be truly congratulated because they, in this society we live in, in a country like we do, face a lot of problems, especially the prosecutors of the BiH Prosecutors, whose jurisdiction is directly war crimes and these objects that they seem to me to be, so they might say, quite successfully, do, work, although they are the most complex objects and although they are objects that cause quite large and strong emotions, especially in certain categories of victims and their associations, etc. But what I don't understand about the prosecution's work, and what I can hear from my friends, the people I know, is this. In fact, there are some people who have told me that for seven or eight years now, they have been under certain investigation actions of the BiH Prosecutor's Office when it comes to war crimes and that, for seven or eight years or more, they are already experiencing a certain punishment because there is no time limit in which it is possible to start and end. So people are in one state of vacuum, their lives are passing in anticipation of what's going to happen, etc. I really can't accept it, and I can't believe that people can stay under investigation for so long. So my question would be whether it really is and if it is so that there is a possibility that these investigations should be brought down into some reasonable frameworks, that people eventually have either the indictment or have some solution that is being made about not conducting an investigation, etc.? This seems really inhumane to people who are ultimately not guilty until proven otherwise by a judicial verdict. It seems to me that this is one of the serious shortcomings in work, and I say, before that I really felt the need to point out these people who are working on these cases 55, and I think it's pretty hard especially, I say, in a society like this and in the state that we are in. That's one thing. The other thing is, the D.A.'s office is from its establishment to this day, it seems to me that three prosecutors have been removed and suspended. In itself, this points to the fact that there are serious problems. There are serious problems concerning selected people who are doing these jobs, there are serious technical problems, because we have heard this here and earlier years that two three prosecutors are working in a very small, narrowed area, etc., and I am pleased if there are opportunities and ways to solve these technical problems, but I think it would make sense, that in an open, prepared debate with the assistance of the Justice Ministry, we may at times open a debate here together on the report of the Prosecutor's Office, the Court's report, and in particular on the report of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which is probably caused by many problems that concern the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and whose cause is not in the Prosecutor's Office of BiH but in those who choose prosecutors and who, in some way, have received the mandate from this country and this people to make choices, independent choices, this, this, this, the judge and the prosecution functions. I think that, therefore, it would make sense together to open all three of these topics and I mean that, I said that last year, I think there are really serious gaps in the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, that there are serious gaps in the choice of people who should, as a crown of their careers, experience it in the BiH Prosecutor's Office or be judges of the BiH Court of Justice. There we have people who have no work experience or any relevant work experience, who are appointed to these functions. I believe that's the case, but simply in the selection of these personnel, in the selection of these people, there's a lot of quiet, to say, if you want both non-potistic and some other relationships and relationships that affect the fact that really incompetent people are sitting there. And you, when you have an incompetent man in a certain position, then those who do their job well suffer for, I don't know, the norms of these people, etc., intricacies and all the other things that are mentioned in public and in some way related to the wrong results of the prosecution. But what I am particularly concerned about and what I have reported primarily for this debate is that these days we hear very serious accusations that the State's Security Minister is making on the work of the D.A. and V.D. Chief Prosecutors and individual prosecutors, and these charges go to the point of mentioning certain items held in petals, certain items that are being read there, which are being stopped, etc. These accusations, however much from these parliamentary and delegate benches, seem to be so somewhat comical and fun, etc., in public produce a very, very serious effect. People are concerned if the country's security minister is making such serious accusations concerning an institution that should probably be the foundation of this country. Until the courts, prosecutors and other security agencies start cleaning up these weeds in this country, we can't even hope for a better life. Of these people, therefore, we expect some positive processes to take place, and every four years voters, citizens, decide which policy option is close to them, etc., to choose politicians with whom they can and can, but in the case of terrorism, especially with them, in such a system as it is made, they can't just do what they need to do, so, when it comes to war crimes, and when it comes to terrorism, and when it comes to organised crime, everything that's in the jurisdiction of the prosecution. So I expected the Minister of Security to remain until the end of this session today, and I expected that we would have the opportunity today to, where the place is, in parliamentary, parliamentary benches, talk, not just at press conferences where the data is really scary. People with chills listen to it, people are worried about it. Indeed, if in one of the country's highest prosecutorial posts there are such machinations, there are such political persecutions, there are, then this country is really asking the question of what perspective it has. I, therefore, would like to hear about these accusations and Mr. Odobašić telling us what's on the matter, whether any dialogue with the Ministry of Security, the Council of Ministers, etc., could it be moved to some parliamentary benches, that we don't have every day a press conference that, I say, brings unrest, people's teeth, because 56 beware, this is about people's heads, it doesn't matter whether some prosecutor makes some kind of oversight or whether he makes some wrong decision or under the influence of someone makes a political decision. These are the things that cause every country to tremble and cause a political earthquake to occur in every country. We have this every day, here, at the press conferences. And what in the end? Nothing, nothing. I mean really, uh, one, I can't say schizophrenic, but one serious situation in which, indeed, the BiH Prosecution, well, if you want the Minister of Security and the Council of Ministers to deal with this subject, to stop entertaining the people in this way, there are a lot of different ways for people to have fun, etc., but these are too serious things to play with these things and, in some way, to prolong all this, which ultimately creates such dissatisfaction with ordinary people, which creates sodium to power, to elected officials, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3280	Thank you, Mr. Softić. Since there are no more reports unless Mr. Odobašić wants them. Well, here, if he asked, maybe, but briefly please, just a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3281	Thank you very much for... Of course, prosecutors at the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we who are leading up the work processes, are ready for any good criticism and which points to how we should work..., what is the perception of the public of what we do. However, I must say, I am sorry to refer to the last discussion of the distinguished vice president of this tall dom of Softić, related to the forwarding of individual state offices, particularly the Minister of Security, etc. The prosecutor of the chief prosecutor's office, Prosecutor Gordana Tadić, has made certain views public, and it will, therefore, be about one performances that have no real basis, because all the information concerning the cases under which this prosecution is handled can be obtained in this prosecution and there is no ban, but that they can be obtained there and are not spoken publicly of. But we've been witnessing that lately they've only been brought out in public for lunches and they're taking a flat-rate score, which really doesn't have a basis. In those cases in which we cooperate, we work very well with agencies that are within the Ministry of Security and we have no problem. With the Ministry of Security, we cannot directly cooperate because its powers are not in the way that they are presented to the public. Who reads the Constitution and the laws knows how the Ministry of Security is set up in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But indeed Mr. Minister and others can, therefore, get information from the agencies... We specifically cooperate on specific issues with agencies, and there are really no problems and even more we feel progress and this progress will be far greater. And just to say about war crimes, it is indeed one thing, ultimately, this prosecution, among other things, was founded because it was working on war crimes when it turned out that the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia would be abolished. I must remind myself that the BiH Council of Ministers has brought, I apologize for short, little time-consuming, but because of the public, it has brought the State Strategy for War Crimes Processing in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2008. However, it is one document that has not provided real grounds for its implementation. In 2008, a document was adopted, only in 2013 the first prosecutors, according to this document and we only, means from 2013 to 2015 we get prosecutors and quality staff. And again, if it wasn't for the IPA project via the European Commission where about a million marks were issued for prosecutors, or other staff in the prosecution, we wouldn't be able to function. That's why we have a huge 57 arrests, we have a huge number of war crimes cases, we have over 600 war crimes cases that are very complex and where over 5,000 people are suspected. That's why we're not satisfied with the functioning and efficiency in that part either. The Council of Ministers adopted our initiatives and launched a process of changing the state strategy to work on war crimes cases and is under way. A high-quality working group is working on it and expects the BiH Prosecutor's Office to complete its work by autumn and will propose certain mechanisms, certain measures that should ensure that the process is speeded up, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office handles the most complex cases, and that one part of the case be transferred to entity prosecutors. So, uh, it's a real situation and we have good co-operation with missing persons associations, we, along with the Missing Persons Institute, are looking for 7,000 missing persons with other organs. We're conducting an exhumation process that we don't often have, and this year we don't have enough resources in the budget, and we're sure to show up at the end of the year with that request. And, of course, lacks information, lacks better equipment and support from the Institute, and... gives there, the International Commission for Missing Persons, great support. And we understand that many people who have been reported or against whom war crimes proceedings are being conducted are in one very awkward position but we do not have enough capacity to ensure within a reasonable time that investigations, or... that, uh, they are being completed, because simply the state has adopted a State Strategy and has not provided the conditions for this strategy to be implemented. We hope and believe that the amendments to this Strategy will create these conditions, and the prosecution is open and for, any co-operation, any, of course, we will never talk about individual subjects publicly, but, of course, we will always talk to those who are authorized, and especially with the damaged, we will always talk and they will get full information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3282	Thank you, Odobašić. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. We will now vote on Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2016. According to our Rules of Procedure, therefore, we should accept it or not receive it. I beg you to initiate the plea mechanism. This way, from the 14 present – for it was 6, against it was 5, abstention 3. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska no one was in favour, 4 were against and 1 abstention. No general majority, no, sorry, entity majority. [[/College consent.]] Since we haven't reached an agreement within the three of us, we're about to come forward in the second round. So from the 14 present – again 6 was for, against 5, abstention 3. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 against and 2 abstentions, no one from Republika Srpska was by, 4 against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority but there is no entity majority. I agree with the 2016 Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not been received. We move to the point of today's 13th agenda, that's 58 Ad. 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2016, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-1382/17, dated 31.05.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3286	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3287	And, excuse me, Sifet Podžić, appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur. Is there a need, Mr. Podžić? 59
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3288	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3289	The same strength is...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3290	Thank you, thank you for that. I'm giving the word to the applicant now if he's present. There is no Reporter. We now have to make a statement, since there are no Reporters I think we should not speak out on this important subject, but here, I'm going to start a vote. So, are we going to plead today or not? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no reporter.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3292	Are we taking off or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3293	Here, so I suggest you take it off. Who is it? Someone's got their word for it? Mr. Raguž. Here you go before we make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3294	So, in addition to this proposal, given the importance of this Programme, and given the, here's the day-to-day catastrophic situation in the nearest environment, I don't think we should have one serious debate... of this significant issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3295	Okay. Here, I've already made a proposal, so today we don't say anything about this agenda item. Please start. All right, out of the 14 -- for it was 13, against nobody, one abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 5 for, no one against, no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So today, we will neither open a debate nor declare ourselves on this agenda point. Let's move on, move on to point 15, that's 60 Ad. 15. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, No: 01,02-50-14-1450/17, of 09.06.2017. You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to conduct a procedure for appointing a member of the Board of Appeals. On the sequel of the 48th session, held on 05.07.2017, the House of Representatives adopted the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission, which appointed representatives: Safet Demirović, Diana Zelenik and Bojić Borislav. At the 50th session, held on 09.07.2017, the National College established a proposal for members of the Interim Joint Committee and that: Ljilja Zovko, Sead Kadić and Darko Babalj. I'm opening a debate right now on this agenda point. Are there any reports of a hearing? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Of the 14-13 present, there were 1 abstentions, no votes against. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, none against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 5 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes to implement the procedure for the appointment of members of the Board of Appeal in which we appointed Ljilja Zovko, Sead Kadić and Dark Babalj from the House of Peoples. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 16. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-34-1-1590/17, dated 30.06.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3298	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3299	Just like in the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the appointment of the first candidate from the list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people. Of the 14-10 present, it was for, against 3, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find myself a member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, we have appointed Vladimir Jurišić. We're going to the 17th point of the agenda, that's it, Ad. 17. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-50-14-388-4.3a/17, of 09.06.2017. At the 40th session of the House of Representatives held on 29 December 2016 and at the 26th session of the House of People, held on 01.02.2017, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people named: Darko Babalj, Bariša Čolak and Fahrudin Radončić. The interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes has established and delivered a report to the House of Representatives and the Nationals on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people. The House of Representatives was appointed by Tatjana Kljecanin-Klječanin-Martić, a member of the Independent Committee of the Serbian People, on the sequel of the 48th session, held on 05.07.2017. 62 In line with the proposal for a ranking of successful candidates for appointments, which delivered the Interim Joint Committee of both homes today, we need to declare the appointment of a member of the Independent Committee. I give the word to Dark Babalj, if you... Just like in the report. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the appointment of the first candidate from the list of successful candidates to appoint a member of the Independent Committee as the independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people. You can plead. From 14 to 10 were for, 3 were against, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska 2 for, 3 against, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Independent Committee member as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, we appointed Tatjana Klecanin-Klječanin-Martić. On the agenda, we still have the agreement to ratify agreements and contracts. I suggest we bring together the debate and the statement on points 18 to 21, including item 21 of the agenda. But we have before, before the debate opens, or, here, I'm opening a debate, so who's answering for a word? Mr. Radmanović answered. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3301	Mr. Chairman. Just for a little while, 'cause everybody's already nervous. We had different opinions on these agreements on the commission, and I suggest we make a different statement, so let's set out item 19, and the other three can come out in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3302	18 or 19, what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3303	No, point 18 of the ratification agreement on the status and functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. So that we have her special, and the other three in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3304	Okay. Are we going to make a statement about your proposal now? Here I am going to make that motion of yours for a plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3305	No microphone 63 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3306	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3307	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3308	Well, well, then like this, you don't mind, of, just a little bit, without, well, I'll take it out, so like this, we'll go, uh, here we go right now at 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3309	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3310	Okay. And then we go in the package. Here, now it's point 18, that's it, Ad. 18. Granting consent for ratification of the Agreement on the Status and functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons, No: 01,02-05-2-1055/17, of 20.04.2017 I'm opening a debate on this point, but here, before any of the reporters might. First, on behalf of the commission, will you go first? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3313	The Honorable Chairman, respected delegates I, here, would briefly like to draw attention to the decision on ratification, to give consent to the ratification of the Status Agreement and the functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. Namely, this International Commission for Missing Persons, which has been in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has existed in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina since 1996, practically I would like to say that it has not so far had the status of an international organisation, but has practically implemented its legal status in the international plan from bilateral agreements concluded with certain countries it has provided assistance, so it has been with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. What is very important is that in March 2015 as the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, we received information from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there has been a change in the status of this International Organisation in the light of the new international consensus on missing persons, 64 that the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands, Great Britain, Sweden, Belgium and Luxembourg agreed to sign a new Agreement on the status and functioning of this organisation in order to gain international character, all with the aim of its rapid and organised action due to the situation of missing persons in the big wave of migration. We have considered this act by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a competent ministry and have put forward a proposal to join this International Agreement because, under this already signed agreement, an invitation has been made to the countries to join it. Given the large contribution of the International Commission for Missing Persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the search for missing persons and particularly the use of advanced methods of DNA analysis and the identification of missing persons as the competent ministry in this large contribution to the identification of about 23,000 missing persons, we have also made a proposal for accession to this Agreement. The BiH presidency also made a decision on the accession of the Agreement on the status and functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. Here, uh, based on this brief information, I propose to this high House that it give its consent to ratify this Agreement so that both Bosnia and Herzegovina can join the countries that have established the status of this International Organisation and recognised it in that status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3314	Thank you, Minister. Are there any reported according to this agenda item? Does anyone want to discuss it now? If not, I'm closing the argument. We will now plead, therefore, on this 18th item of the agenda, that is to give consent to the ratification of the Status Agreement and the functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. Please prepare for a plea. So from the 14 - 9 presence, there were no abstentions for, 5 against. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and abstentions, Republika Srpska had no votes for, 5 against, and no abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. [[/Agreement in the College.]] So, since we didn't agree to the College, we're going to the second round of pleas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3316	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3317	I don't think so. Here, my colleagues are correcting me, he says to stay, so we don't plead today, so I'll accept this remark. Here, my colleague Softić asked for it, so we agreed. Now we're going to point 19 to 21. I think you're all agreeing now that, uh, to bring the debate together, so points 19 to 21, including point 21. Here, we can be clear about whether or not you agree. We can vote. 65 Of the 14 who were present, all 14 were for, without votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I would like to conclude that we agree on points 19 to 21, including item 21 of the agenda, to bring discussion and clarification together. Ad. 19. - 21. Granting consent to ratification of agreements and contracts Now I'm going to open a debate on these agenda points. He's got a report from Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I think these very contracts that are for ratification are an opportunity to sum up a little bit of what we talked about today. Of course, I'll stick to the subject. Of course, you need to finance... Republika Srpska, that military co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Poland should also be done, but the reason why I reported is the Agreement on cooperation between our Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro in the process of joining the European Union. As my esteemed colleague Martin Raguž often says the European path has no alternative, and if we look at, here, that Montenegro has already entered NATO, as we do not have at least the principle consensus that we have in the European Union, I think we will be able to learn a lot from Montenegro thanks to this agreement, and I will explain why. Six days ago, a small village down in Montenegro was erected and an opening ceremony to Puniša Račić, who is best known for having assassinated the heads of the HSS in the Belgrade Assembly. Of course HSS responded to this, followed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia and various associations from Croatia and Montenegro. And the government of Montenegro yesterday, believe it or not, removed the monument with a reason to insult the national feelings of a nation and that it can make relations worse between the peoples living in Montenegro. I remind Hrvat in Montenegro are a national minority. Now I'd like to experience hearing it from someone in a country where the Hrvat are a constituent people and I hope when there's not enough intelligence between us to touch that we can learn something from the Crnogorac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3320	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Radmanović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3321	We've talked a lot, ladies and gentlemen, today about things that aren't about the agenda, and this one in particular. So, I must remind Mr Karamatić that this is not really about this item of the agenda, but while Mr Karamatić is already talking about it, I should remind him that those whose eternal opponent ruled Puniša Račić long ago, shortly after Belgrade was released. So, I'm talking about communists, Mr. Karamatić. Thank you. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3322	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3323	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3324	Here, and colleague Tadić has something to say, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3325	Well, I keep thinking that someone would once read these stenograms, so I'm afraid you wouldn't think that there were Srbin at that moment in the hall, uh, because, you know, you're very likely to have the current government in Montenegro, which is as transient as anything that has passed, taken care of some relations with one, one country or one people, but I assure you that in doing so she completely ignored the feelings of her basic people, so I would call, both countries and... other countries and... other countries. Of course, it is neither the time nor the time for us to speak under the circumstances of what has happened in the Assembly, but I assure you, Mr Karamatić, and I am sure you know under what circumstances it has been, that you, for many, many, much, much less difficult words that someone here says are disproportionately more difficult to react than what Puniša Račić reacted. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-19-0.u3326	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. I hope we've exhausted this and what was in the agenda, maybe what wasn't in the agenda. And I invite you colleagues and colleagues to now plead points, so 19 to 21, including point 21. Of the 14 people present, all 14 were for, therefore, no votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and abstentions, Republika Srpska 5 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and contracts referred to in points 19 to 21, including the point of the 21st agenda. This concludes the work of the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You biti be later informed of the date of the next session. Thank you, everyone. Session completed at 4:50 p.m.
