ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2956	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable envoys, I warmly welcome you all and open the 29th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At today's session, there are 15 envoys, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. For the 29th session, I suggest the following: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, of 20.03.2017; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2509/16, from 28/09/2016 and 25/01/2017; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2610/16, of 24.03.2017; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Act No: 01-50-1-15-44/17, of 25.04.2017; 6. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-4-566/17, of 22.02.2017; 7. Financial reports for the year ending 31.12.2016 and the 2016 Annual Report – applicant: Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-50-19-899/17, of 03.04.2017; 8. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-919/17, of 04.04.2017; 9. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-944/17, dated 05.04.2017; 10. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2016 – applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-19-979/17, of 11/04.2017; 11. First report on the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2019 and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015-2019, 2 material of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 01,02-04-3019/16 of 10.03.2017; 12. Rang-list of candidates for the Board of Directors of the Public Television Service of BiH in order of others, material: BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1-871/17, dated 30.03.2017; 13. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-34-1188/17, of 09.05.2017; 14. Resolution of a member of the BiH Appeal Office, issue: 01,02-50-19-1038/17 of 15.05.2017; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on international road transport of passengers and freight, No 01,02-05-2-967/17, of 10.04.2017; 16. Granting consent for ratification of the Treaty of Loans ratification Decision (Corridor 5c extension) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-998/17 of 12.04.2017; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Luka Brcko) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No: 01,02-05-2-1008/17, of 13.04.2017; 18. Approving the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial cooperation in 2013, No 01,02-05-2-1076/17, of 21.04.2017. This is the concerted agenda of the House of People's Colleges. Does anyone report for a word, has there been any suggestions for amending and supplementing this agenda? I don't see any reports. In the absence of amendments and additions, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to point one, so, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I don't see any reports. So now we will vote on the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 15 present, there were 15 votes against, and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 votes to, without votes against and abstentions. 3 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I find that the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Emergency Administration Act, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the People's House – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2959	I thank the chairman. Honored present, colleagues and colleagues. The Council of Ministers instructed the bill to be considered by an emergency procedure, justifying this by the need to adapt this law to the situation created after the adoption of the Law on Associations and Foundations. And I understand that need, however, because it is interventions to the Administration Act that are not quite so simple and far-reaching, I would say, I think this law should be considered in a regular procedure with the possibility of investing amendments and certain adjustments that are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2960	Thank you. Well, the fact is that, therefore, the House of Representatives has also adopted a regular procedure, so here's the suggestion that we should also plead so that it goes into regular procedure. That's how I understood you, Mr. Genjac. So now we're voting on the procedure, and Nović signed up. Mr. Nović, I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2961	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I must say, I'm a little surprised that this law by the Council of Ministers is actually headed for an emergency procedure. I'm not gonna say anything, it's a tough word, but the law to change by emergency procedure is just amazing. It's not like this, as my colleague Genjac said, that four simple amendments to this law, and they're not particularly urgent that we should enter into the emergency procedure of this law today. And that's why I think the House of Representatives has also made the right decision, and I suggest that this House does not accept either an emergency or a shortened procedure, and that this Law goes into regular procedure, because all those who have read the proposed amendments and the additions of the Law are obviously going to have reasons to consider a little more detail and that, eventually, with the proposed amendments, we improve this text and create really one seriousness in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2962	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Here, and I will join exactly what you and Mr. Genjac have said, I hope the rest of you will come forward as well. So, but we need to implement the plea procedure, first we vote, so, on the procedure, so, are we going to consider the bill by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House. Please initiate the plea procedure. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We can repeat the plea, please. Of the 14 present – there were no votes for, 12 against, 2 were abstentions. The Federation of BiH -- there were no votes for, 8 against and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska -- there were no votes for, 4 against and 1 abstention. So there's no general majority. Now we're going to make a statement about this bill of law by a brief procedure. So here we can vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2967	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2968	Like in the report, okay. Thank you. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and if he appreciates his needs? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International and Interentity Road Transport in Second Reading. Of the 15 present – for it was 6, versus 5, abstentioned 4. From the Federation of BiH -- it was 6 against 2 and held back from Republika Srpska -- there were no votes for, 3 votes against and 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. Here, I am in consultation with my colleagues from the College to plead at the next session in the second round. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda of today's session, that's Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2610/16, of 24.03.2017. This is the first reading of the bill. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples and the Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of People. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that 6 proposed laws were in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Committee for Finance and Budget of the House of Nations supported the principles of the bill. I give the word to Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples if she appreciates her needs. Just like in the report. Okay, thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and has needs. I can't see. So, I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone picking up? Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2970	I welcome you, as well as my fellow envoys, members of the Council of Ministers and all other guests. I really need to tell you what happened on the Finance Commission, which works in accordance with the law and very responsiblely, and we, at the session before today, voted in favour, and directed the Ministry of Security to find it within its jurisdiction, found the means to find this bill, which came from the House of Representatives, could be implemented, given that we have a negative opinion from the Ministry of Finance, the funds that are due there are not, cannot be found in our current budget. And now usually it turns out at the vote, someone is for, someone against the police, we are, of course, not that, but in the meantime while we were waiting for that answer, which we got today before the session, at half past ten, the answer that didn't tell us anything. So, the procedure is imagined to be that what would be proposed to the Ministry of Security to the Ministry of Finance, and to provide us with the way we can access this story of amendments and additions to the Police Act. We are usually represented, we and to this day, none of us are satisfied with our conclusions, our demands, we are not responding, today the agenda point has been taken down because the third time does not appear the legislator of the law that we have removed today, so it is unserious to us representatives. On the other hand, we, who have voted in favour of this 2017 Budget, are responsible for it, can therefore not bring about any changes, without seeing how we will implement it without jeopardising the budget. I'm not going to go into that depth any further, but of course that during those fifteen days we did research and my story today at that session was to see what it was, and since it's... and the public turn, I just want to say, so in the Police Body Coordination Directorate there's 733 police officers, at the border police station 1,930 and at the State Investigation and Protection Agency it's 486. We're talking about 3.149 cops. The proposal that came to us isn't just for some, it means all those cops with powers, so in uniform. Looking for how to respect this now without breaking what we have in the institutions that high school with a coefficient of 1.29 as well as a policeman has 1.29 but because of the specificity of their work they need a supplement, which I absolutely and as a representative and all of us here agree, that through that supplement they are dealing with and the work they are dealing with. And now, unlike these three agencies, or directorates, in different ways, give these supplements, the border police 35 percent add to that basic salary gives everyone equal, while e.g. Those from the SIPA, they give 30 to 50%, which is how they deploy I really don't know, and this one for coordination, means the Police Body Coordination Directorate somewhere from 30 to 35 percent. It's these accessories, so they're looking at each other in different ways. 7 If we look at the proposal which is a colleague, and which the House of Representatives adopted, then we will see, let’s say, in this proposal with the increase in coefficient we are already coming out of the story from 1.29 going to 1.40 and making something that will cause a storm of new reactions and new alignments, for example. According to this proposal one, that first initial officer would get a salary increase of 8.5%, but for example, That's why the senior sergeant is 25%, so then, I don't know, Inspector 12%, so then the Chief Inspector is 18%, so that's some, I don't know, I don't know which numbers a colleague used to use when he suggested this. For this reason, we are opinions or I, here or at least the Croatian Club, we are thinking that the Council of Ministers would, but now really be in charge of finding some opportunities in the next 30 days. They can be, I've been investigating it, so I've come up with strange numbers, for example. counterpart Sredoje Nović has one question, you have seen that, that this police department, which, means the Police Body Coordination Directorate, spends a million and a half a year on behalf of official escort travel, means for these three, they have a total of about 2.5 million annual official travel issues, with only the Police Body Coordination Directorate a little less than 2 million. If we go to the Ministry of Security and look at how they're doing, they have prizes, so they're not extras, they're rewards, they're being paid, I saw it in the audit report, we'll see how it's going to be for '16, where those awards go for the individual in the Ministry of 100 to 900 marks. I don't even know how or how it's divided, somewhere up to 20 I can give, it's probably going all the way to 20%. Well, then, for example. If you as a citizen send a letter there and ask according to the Law on Access to Information to answer you, the official who does this to everyone here, each of your answers charges yourself an additional 30 marks by doing that job of yours. So I'm talking about finding a way to help these cops inside the funds that already exist. We're obviously in '17. We can't do anything for a year, and since we're in the middle of the 2018 budget, we can, let's say in a month, I've prepared a conclusion in 30 days that it really sits down and sees what it can and can do, doesn't mean it has to be as much as it says, how much help can be made to help these officers who are at Bosnia and Herzegovina's level help to get at least a little closer to those entities, or cantonal as they already do, what they already pay. So my proposal would be, and in conclusion, clearly this is the first reading where we're going into the story that it's going to be, but to make sure in the next month those who rule the budget, not to say it's 10 million, no, it's 8 million, but to say exactly how many millions they have to find, I don't know how. If in that month they fail to tell us how, then we'll probably vote you didn't want to answer, as the answer came in this morning, it's no response from the Ministry of Security, then they'll get a mission to find it, I don't know how they'll find it. But I really think it's time that the conclusion sent by the MPs, the envoys to someone from the Council of Ministers, from, wherever we send him, that he's being respected, that we respect ourselves because we need to raise our hand, I say again, as responsible for the budget, but also as people, I don't want to be against the police, I'm not against the police, I won't, but let's see what's the best way, the best way to get them out. We know that they had no one to complain to since 01.01 this year they had no one to make their complaint until the other day, only the other day they got a board to complain about. So then I read, I said today, I read letters to the Ministry of Security in a way, and it can be a savings, I don't know, and it can be found, like sewing uniforms, the regulations are prepared to make it, that no one from Bosnia and Herzegovina can sew a suit for cops, they don't know, but it's obviously going to go to strangers. So, all that can be done, there's a lot we could find and help, repeat, save the budget, and help this police. Let's not run, just, here, I say, let it go in the order it should go in. So, I propose a conclusion, here I will read it now, and I will pray that it be shared, so – The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of finding a solution within 30 days to amend the 8 Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions is applicable. Until then, no other reading can come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2971	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Who signed up? Mr. Rodić first, then Mr. Nović. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2972	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Džambas said a lot and supported it with examples, and it's all clear, I don't think there's a single dilemma here. I responded from the second resolution, because we were on the Finance and Budget Committee for almost a few months intensively looking for a solution and coming up with a quality solution that could be accepted here at the House of Peoples. And, unfortunately, even today at the Commission, which rarely happens to the Commission for finance and budget, and that speaks of responsibility, is this Law has been found on the agenda of today's session, we haven't had a single view of it, but I personally think it is good that we are discussing and what the zakon has given us a chance to see what can be found in the parliamentary procedure as a solution to these problems. My personal opinion is that what we have done at the beginning, and we have been insisting on this for a long time, is that we have a new Law on wages and fees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because that is the only way we can solve this issue institutionally and systematically. What concerns me is whether other requirements will come after this request, and what this zakon is is the Council of Ministers has previously considered but it has entered the parliamentary procedure through a proposal from MPs in the House of Representatives. And I wish that in the House of Representatives was considered differently and tried to look for these solutions, so it would probably be easier here. Here if you look at it is a very clear view of the Ministry of Finance, and I think it's a kind of responsibility, it points to what is possible and how the law can, in fact, begin with its application, but what each of us bears responsibility as a parliamentarian is going to have a difference between normative and real and whether we will finally get something that we have raised, uh, hands, probably get some points in a particular population, but we haven't solved the problem. As part of the opposition, I may be able to think politically the following way: it is very simple to raise my hand, say – here I am for it, and tomorrow I can enjoy what is impossible to realize. If the fact that the realisation of these rights takes a gross of about 10 million KM for one current year, it's huge funding, if we know that the budget has been at 950 million for years, yes... so we can only solve it through internal savings. And that's exactly what the Commission was doing, asking us to come to a solution together. We had the Ministry of Finance's position, today we got the opinion of the Ministry of Security in which there are many good intentions, concerns about the population and the desire to resolve it, but there is also no solution to this act by the Ministry of Security. From all that I think we do, and it's a good thing that the bill is in the regular procedure, I think we have time to look for a solution, but I'm afraid if this amount of budget is the way it is for the next year, if we look at the Reform Agenda and everything that's in it, a lot of that stuff is clear, is the fact that there's only one option left, and 9 is, what Mrs. Džambas said, the internal reserve, the redistribution, and in that way to get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2973	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Nović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2974	I, of course, am a pain in the ass about a profession performed by distinguished colleagues but even if I wasn't here, a man faces a really serious problem. A little bit of this law reminds me of the one from a few years ago when it was brought to this House in connection with officers, or members of the Armed Forces of BiH. The truth then was passed shortly before the elections, and many then ran to kindly pass the Law to get some votes at that time. However, it is not the solution, and later we saw the protests, then we saw the problems facing both entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina in general. And the police don't need good intentions for any of us not to say, we feel sorry for them, we don't have what to feel sorry for them, they opted for that job, but they want to be rewarded for the work they do. You see how it's possible that if we don't have a budget this year, and we don't have a chance of internal reserves, the colleague said, and so did fellow Rodić, the 7, 10, and I don't know how many million, then why we don't have any additional responsibilities to look at what's for 2017, so that we can consider whether we can provide those funds in the 2017 budget and that, '18, excuse me, and that we have those funds in 2018, and that the law is now, either now or in September or October, is quite less important. I don't think there's a reservation, I don't think it can be resolved, but I also have to say from my own vision that if I were to ask myself seriously, I would advise the Police Structures Union, if I had the right to do so at all, to consider whether all officers need 16 months of internships instead of 12, so that we can cut the internship, and we're putting the money from the benefited internship on the payroll. Do you think it's the same thing to work with the police 30, 20 years ago today? And secondly, whether young people should retire at 52. All of them ask which part of them sits here, they're even officers so they have something different, but all the cops finish high school with about 19 possibly 20 years old, he's in the 52nd pensioner by force of law. He didn't solve the apartment, he didn't solve the kids, he didn't solve any life issues, he passed the law. Since we were 52 years old, we've been forced into the streets to sell tomatoes and peppers to these people for whom this country and every other country gave. I think it's time to think about it a little bit, because the money that's given for the benefited internship he's given just as much as for this job internship actively. So I think there's this internal reserve, and I think it'd be good to think about it, we're going to extend, let me say, working age to members of police structures by about 4-5 years, and we're going to increase salaries, but not falsely to take away two months of their benefit, and then on that basis, we're saying you can't get bigger salaries. It's not natural, it's not natural that any official, or subsistence in the joint institutions, has a bigger start than a police officer. Not that it's not natural, it's not supposed to happen, it has to have equal status, it's a civil servant, it's a cop, with all the tenants, or officials in the joint institutions, and the second is a matter of addition. We are modern, always running for supplements, the supplement is always a question I think it should be evened out and my proposal is that not 30 days, even I think it's a short term of 30 days, that 60 days should be a request to the Council of Ministers to commit the Council of Ministers to find a solution and to propose changes and supplements to, for the next, for one of the sessions and that for 2018 this Law can be 10 entered into force 01.01.2018 and that they do not have to lobby and walk, talk, create political, tree, stimung, relationship with each other, so here these are for, and these are against. I also share Mr Rodić's opinion, most gladly and most easily told us now – excellent, let's bring this law to me, there is no money. But I would always advise the police – the next day when there is no money sue Bosnia and Herzegovina, sue the finances and your money will be paid. But don't forget that 3,500 is people who today, unfortunately, are created one climate, have their eyes in this house if we want to, whether we're in or out. We're all for, I don't believe that someone here is sitting who thinks we should take one brand away. And that is why I really advocate, here, that we pass this Law in 2017 and that it enters into force on 01.01.2018, and then there will be the obligation of the Council of Ministers to find internal reserves. Otherwise, I think we'd get into a serious, serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2975	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mr. Babalj called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2976	Here, let me say hello. I don't understand anything, or it's all clear to me, we're primarily politicians, right? Today we are in a position to say a few things to the public, if today's Law we adopt it in our first reading. After that comes the amendment phase and then the adoption in the second reading. At that amendment stage, the Council of Ministers may also table amendments to change it. So today we're opting out whether this is a good foundation for something called a salary increase. And all of what my colleagues have said, what they would say, fold the tab, put in amendments, so if they are useful and accepted in this House, that's how it will be. So, it's all clear here, we're making a statement today about first reading. And this law cannot come into force tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, but when it is finished in the second reading. And that can happen in September, in October, in November, is that right, and until then, our dear fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, if we adopt it today, will send it as a single message that, here I will not say that it is being denigrated, but that it is preparing the budget, which they are already preparing, that this should be in 2018. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2977	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. Mr. Raguž signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2978	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I welcome all present. So let's get out of this, that we're all for this, what Mr. Nović said, and come on, I want to believe that that's the case, but behind these principle stories we have concrete questions, concrete questions..., their lives, existence and wages. And here we have a constant practice, so, advocacy of whole solutions. I, you know that I may be one of the loudest to do that, but be careful, while you welcome a whole solution that passes through life, lives pass on to people. It's also about how very important institutions work for Bosnia, all institutions are important, I don't want to make a difference between them, but these are structures that actually personify the state, its reputation, its credibility, its status, its face, and I think it's high time that we put a little dynamics into our own responsibility and press the Council of Ministers and Budgetary Positioning, in some ways 11 show them the message that we can..., not remain in the declarative words, but in some way get a move. So I am clearly committed to this Law which cannot in any way question the concept of a complete solution, but can show that the most legislative institutions can bring something concrete that these people feel some concern and concern, not personally, but according to the functioning of state institutions. And not to speak now of what the issue of security means in these times, the question of structure, organisation, professionalization, responsibility, competences that cannot go unless it is accompanied by adequate support and in this sense. So I don't think any of us should be chasing any political points here, but simply supporting this law and in, in a way, synergy with the Council of Ministers looking for... Let us not always slave for it. We wait for the Council, so let us work to reach certain movements, and that people may feel that the state is behind them. That's one minimum we can do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2979	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Genjac signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2980	I thank the chairman. So today we are in a position to consider the principles of the proposed Law. I think it's very difficult to be against the principles of this law. Why? Because this Bill of Law actually agrees with the situation in this area with the principles of the existing law which says that, in Article 3(a) of the Law on Salaries, among other things, it says – that employees in institutions carrying out the same or similar jobs will receive the same basic salary. So since this is the purpose and content of this Law, and we are talking about principles, I repeat, it is very difficult to be against the principles of this Law. Of course, the legitimate issues that are open to this occasion, the question of the means and the question of that is followed by the adoption of this Law are issues that can be very successfully resolved in the second stage through the amendments, among other things, by stating that this Law should enter into force then and then, and applied from 01.01 next year. I think this Council of Ministers can certainly find and understand the resources necessary for this Law and all that is necessary and will follow this Law. So the Bosniak Club will support the attachments of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2981	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Podžić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2982	I welcome the chairman, the deputy, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, all present esteemed colleagues. So, I agree entirely with Mr. Nović and Mr. Babalj's proposal and I would like to remind you that this is not just six months away from these people lobbying, so this is the bill from last year. And I don't know how much you remember when you adopted the 2017 budget I asked, here I am sorry that there is not a finance minister, Mr. Bevanda, whether it's included in the budget, and then here in this House, I am responsible that the internal redistributions will solve it. So understand these people, well, then they definitely have to be 12 so they don't miss the same case so it doesn't happen for the 2018 budget. So I'm with both hands for, of course, that procedure, and all this said by Mr. Genjac and Mr. Nović, to at least be since 01.01.2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2983	Thank you, Mr. Podžić. I don't see any more reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2984	The chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2985	And the chairman of the Council of Ministers called, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2986	Dear members, delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly, I welcome you all very much. I have a few things to say. And I am, of course, very surprised by the fact that most of the debaters who today are eager to increase the coefficient and pay to the police were either in the Council of Ministers or in this, in the House of Representatives at the time when this Law was adopted that put officers in that position. So it seems to me that there's a kind of contradiction here, because before the law was passed, this wasn't adopted by the Council of Ministers. We inherited this Law on Payments and Compensations of Employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which police officers were damaged, since they were identified as the lowest non-payment-cutting coefficients for jobs with the same expertise compared to employees and civil servants. So this Law is inherited and it is up to us to correct this state, the inherited state, and to comply... with the position (1) of Article 3 of the existing Law. I myself, or the Council of Ministers, here I am personally in order to coordinate these coefficients, to raise salaries to police officers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I accept before the Council of Ministers any conclusion that you make today, which will go in that direction. Are you going to do this by adopting this law in your first reading or by borrowing the Council of Ministers, we don't care. So we accept this obligation in advance to comply with the coefficients and correct the long-term inherited injustice and status and the state of police officers have been in for many years. In addition, the model proposed by the Council of Ministers will be familiar with the same, of course, and the question now is whether all MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples who strongly advocate the increase in the coefficients, the release of new ones on average between 9 and 10 million KM, will do so, i.e. accept the Council of Ministers' proposal to increase the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, which by law we can do and increase salaries to police officers but also to members of the Armed Forces of BiH, because you also know that the Commission has a requirement to increase the coefficients, not only to police officials, but also to members of the Armed Forces of BiH, which are much more than police officers. Therefore, if the Council of Ministers is set up in this direction, I expect that all MPs of both homes will be consistent and support an increase in Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget in order to realise 13 of the honorable, quality commitment that we are taking today, which is to raise salaries for BiH Armed Forces officers and members. I repeat, the Council of Ministers is firmly behind it, and I personally stand behind it, I have been defending it for months and I will continue to do so until the full and complete realization of the project, i.e. ideas that will mean that police officers will get an increase in the coefficient, that long-standing injustice will be corrected, since they have had lower paying classes and coefficients compared to other civil servants with the same professional training. So, I repeat, today I accept everything that you decide to do, either to assign the Council of Ministers or to do it in the first reading, and then let's change it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2987	Thank you, Mr. Zvizdić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We will now go to the vote on the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Please initiate the voting mechanism.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2988	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2989	We have to do it again. Please, we'll do it again. From the present... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Give it one more time, but please be careful. Of the present 15 – for it was 14, against none, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against, 1 abstention. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority, I find that the draft law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Now we have one conclusion that you have received in writing by the envoy, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. I'll read it one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2991	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2992	The BiH Council of Ministers is therefore tasked with finding a solution within 60 days so that the amended Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is applicable. 14 I am opening a debate on this conclusion. If there are no reports, I'll close the hearing. I invite you to make your point on this conclusion. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 15 present – for it was 13, against none, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, and there's an entity majority, I'm saying, so this conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the fifth agenda of today's session, that's Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 01-50-1-15-44/17, of 25.04.2017. This is the first reading of the bill. Therefore, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House and the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples. Just like in the report. Thank you. I now give the word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and appreciates that he has needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2994	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, the need to pass this law is seen by a very simple review of the media, by reviewing the daily press, and there are headlines screaming that people are leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina. This morning I listen to radio from the Ljubinje municipality, who doesn't know where it is, it's a small municipality in eastern Herzegovina, each year to go to 50 families. Western Bosnia has been demographically devastated, leaving Herzegovina, the Slovenian Embassy has stopped issuing visas, there is no more time for me to receive someone to talk to him about giving him a work visa to leave this country. Now, what are people leaving for? They don't leave because they don't like this country, they leave because they don't see any future here, they don't see that they can live here, that they can create a family, that they can educate children, that they can have any safety. And then a year ago, when I proposed amendments, similar amendments to this same law, so that what's unusual again in 15 Bosnia and Herzegovina, means people who work and live from their work, don't ask for incentives, ask for nothing, just to allow them to do and nothing more. And this esteemed dom then passed that Law, went to the House of Representatives, fell there, I think there was an unsettled vote and we come now, here, in position, I hope that in at least the next 10 years we will extend the opportunity to continue to earn bread to their families and live on it. And then when someone starts to talk to us about European standards, 21/05/2014, the Hague Court ruled that the ban on breeding of fur, in 2024, should have entered into force in the Netherlands, and the Court of Justice called for a European Convention on Human Rights and declared that ban unconstitutional for the reasons that no fair compensation was offered to breeders, a fair compensation for ending what they are dealing with. We don't offer ours anything, we just meant to ban them, so, over the course of this year and over. And what can people do to you? I can pack and leave. Furthermore, the ruling explains that there are no arguments to completely destroy an industry that works very well with high standards of animal care and which generates large export revenues. After the Court of Justice reached the verdict in The Hague, which means it lifted a possible 2024 ban, exports of fur from the Netherlands from 4.226,580 euros rose to 8,140,570 euros in a year. Otherwise, the Netherlands is not the only country in the European Union, meaning, which has the production of fur animals, for example, because of Austria, it had almost 10m euros in export revenue, Belgium 16m, Denmark 9, say, especially in the eyes of one France that has 108m euros in 2014, 108m euros in fur exports, one Germany that has 102m, one Greece that has 250m or, for us, amazingly, Italy that has as much as 410m euros in fur exports income. We are, of course, a small country, all production in Bosnia and Herzegovina goes exclusively to export, it is about a million euros. And then, as I come across the data, even if one UK, from which the whole story of banning the breeding of animals exclusively for the production of fur, has almost 27m euros in exporting fur from the UK annually. Where did they get that? Because they found a hole in the law, so they don't produce it exclusively for fur cultivation, but they make it as pets, or as this, or as that, and eventually they export the fur again. And now, the Catholic Corps is making us Catholics bigger than the papa. It's hard to do that. I hope that we will adopt this delay and hope that within a very soon period we will make legal solutions that will define the breeding of furskins according to the highest world and European standards and that after that we will completely abolish the ban was the '27, '37. Or '57. To let people in this beautiful country work and live from their work, which is one of the few branches that is profitable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2995	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I don't see any more reports. So I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Well-being of Animals in First Reading. Please initiate the plea mechanism. Of the present 15 – for it was 9, against 6, no one abstained. From the Federation of BiH – for 9, against 1, no one was abstentioned, from Republika Srpska was for, all five against, no one abstention. The general majority exists, the entity majority does not exist. So we won't plead in the second round at today's session, we'll leave that for the next one. 16 Now we're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Justice, issue: 01,02-02-4-566/17, of 22.02.2017. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission supported the proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and proposed their adoption to the House. At its 45th session, held on 10.05.2017, the House of Representatives adopted amendments and additions to the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions together with five amendments. I give my word to Mr. Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. It's like a report. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone come forward for a word on this agenda point? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of the 15 people present, all 15 were in favour, there were no votes against, and there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 votes to, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find amendments and additions to the Single Rules for the construction of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been adopted. Eh, I must now conclude that the amendments and additions to the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been adopted in a different text than the Parliamentary House of BiH, and that we need to form a Joint Commission for text harmonisation. Is there any proposal for members of the Joint Committee for text alignment? Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2997	The Bošnjak Club – A Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u2998	Mr. Genjac. So there's one suggestion. We're moving on to the clubs. Here you go. _________(?) Grandmother. 17 Mr. Babalj. Okay, and the third member?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3000	Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3001	Mrs. Džambas. Here you have heard, so the proposal would be Mr. Genjac, Mr. Babalj and Mrs. Džambas. Now we're going to vote on that proposal. Of those who were present, 15 - 14 were for; none and one was abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and with one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find, therefore, that the members of the Joint Committee on Consensus of text from the House of the Peoples are appointed Mr. Genjac, Mr. Babalj and Mrs. Džambas. We're going to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Financial reports for the year ending 31.12.2016 and the 2016 Annual Report – applicant: Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 02-50-19-899/17, of 03.04.2017. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the Annual Report and the financial reports of the Central Bank of BiH for 2016 and proposed their adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted those reports at its 45th session, held on 10.05.2017. I give the word to Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples, if she appreciates the need. Just like in the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Raguž signed up. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3003	Very, very soon. I know, therefore, that there are limits here in the operation of this central financial institution, the Central Bank of BiH. Here I simply can't bear to see such reports of significant institutions pass without a single sentence. So I would remind us all of the fundamental role of the Central Bank of BiH, which is defined by the Central Bank Act, i.e. that 18 achieves and preserves the stability of the domestic currency, the conversion mark, which was previously fixed according to the German mark, now according to the euro. But there is one role, according to the law, which is why I volunteered for the word, he said – that he co-ordinates the activities of the banking agency of entities responsible for issuing bank licenses and supervision of banks. Well, here, I'm asking a question and I'm proposing -- what is the situation in the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and have we just turned here into silent observers of what's going on, and we see that tectonic disturbances occur with unspeakable consequences for the economy and the social dimension of Bosnia and Herzegovina? That's one thing. Secondly, there is an assessment in the banking sector where it says – bank loans did not play a significant role in financing development projects that would support economic activities. Why do bank loans serve in Bosnia and Herzegovina if they do not encourage development, here is one question, and until when will we license the banking sector in this way if it is not in that function? And the last question, i.e. the finding, and I don't even expect answers, because here things are going well, we're all kind of pushing our heads into the sand, the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose business is in direct jurisdiction of the entity banking agencies, he did a positive job in 2016. The net profit according to the final, unaudited data is 218 million KM. Most of that profit, 89 or 90%, refers to foreign-owned banks. And so I end up – where are the instruments for this country and for all of us to correct this relationship, not to use some difficult word, in which citizens and this country are in relation to the financial domination from outside and the management of these processes? These are the questions we should discuss here on the basis of these reports. I'm just some guy, some guy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3004	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Genjac answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3005	I thank the chairman. I, probably representatives of the Central Bank are present here and I would, first of all, thank you for very thorough and quality and, I would say, a correct and fair report on these segments which, which the Central Bank according to the law, is required to deliver. The report is abundant, therefore, by a mass of useful data for the past year which they call the general government, referring to all budgets, to all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this. And I'd just have questions if it was possible for a bank representative to answer. Namely, the liquidation of the Bank of Serbian Banja Luka and the payment of secured deposits by the Deposit Insurance Agency began on 23.05.'16. the year and according to the Agency's information, as indicated here, for the insurance of deposits of 29.06.'16. until 28.06.'16. 49 million KMs were paid off. In the winding-up procedure, the Agency secured the deposit, so it charged 28 million for insurance and estimated that the remaining part would be fully charged after the court disputes ended. Is there any new information about it or is it still, or is it still this situation, still court disputes and what about the prospects of the remaining funds paid by the Deposit Insurance Agency from its funds to depositors? 19 I would draw, too, in this report on attention, perhaps on the fact that external duty was at the end of '16. the year was 8.87 billion KM, which is a growth of 180 million KM and 2%, respectively, compared to the previous year. That amount of growth primarily refers to the amount of interest paid and the rate difference. The question is, what are interest rates and what are the curricula, more detailed? In '16. The foreign debt payment year was 723.1 million, and according to the finance ministry, allocations were planned to service the debt in '17. a year of 927 million KM. This will pose additional challenges and pressures on entity budgets. The projections of income growth from indirect taxes in the coming years are not in proportion to planned allocations to service foreign debt. So, we have projections that say that we will not be able to service external debt, especially as trends, or requirements for the repayment of external debt in this year already have growth, and more is expected in the coming years. I would like to ask a comment on this issue in terms of the situation at the end, during this year of '17, what happens to the projection and what happens next years and perhaps a commentary arrangement with the IMF in the context of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3006	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I don't see any more envoys applying. Does anyone, on behalf of the Reporter, want to comment or answer questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3007	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3008	Sure, go ahead, go ahead. Vice Viceguverner, Miss Lakić, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3009	First of all, good day to everyone, good afternoon to the chairman and vice president. You had a report in front of you last year, 31.12.2016, where it is crucial that the Central Bank of BiH operates in accordance with a law that, where we define our objectives and primarily ensure the stability of our domestic currency according to the currency board model. The first questions asked by Mr. Raguž concern co-operation with banking coordination. In Article 2. The Central Bank Act, which sets goals and basic tasks of the Central Bank, is a position (3), is being laid down), the BiH Central Bank has been said to be the co-ordinator. Our banking agencies and each other's entities are regulators. Since we maintain regular banking coordination with banking agencies and one and the other entities and where we get their data, these data are... where you can see them on our website. When you ask about the banking sector, no one in the financial market, or in the projections, can tell you because there has never been such a market, nor has it been remembered that long-term securities are of value, or German bonds that have had a negative rate. Therefore, neither can we as an institution, we are also trying to work on the legal frameworks and processes and to maintain the financial stability of our country. Our primary task is monetary stability and preservation of the currency board. You're asking us about bank loans. We can under our Central Bank Act and in coordination, it's not our business policy to determine who the funds are to be placed on. I have to answer to you and how we see the banking sector in the first three months. We can say that in the first three months, the financial markets and interest rates are pretty low, but since you see our reports yourself, and the interest rates are extremely cyclical that we can't determine 20 and that there's a change in the outlook market, credit ratings, composite credit ratings, so it's really hard to determine. Mr. Genjac asked us about the Bank of Serbs. Also, with the Banks Act of the Republika Srpska entity, it is said and rightly so, the first one is paid by the Deposit Insurance Agency, meaning the deposit of up to 50,000 KM. Those armed deposits are paid, going in a row of payments. I cannot answer you in front of the Central Bank at this time when all deposits will be paid even for this period, that is the information we have put into the Financial Report in work, in coordination with banking agencies. You asked for the projections and what co-operation with the IMF was like. You know everyone in the letter of intent and in the Supplement of Letters intends that the Central Bank manages foreign reserves, it is not our funds, and that we have brought even more stringent frameworks regarding investment policies, or investment, but it has never happened, until two years ago they have been positive contributions to the Eurozone, but in the last two and a half years they are negative, so in our projections we are trying, and last year we have done business with a positive financial result and we expect that this year, but only thanks to the reclassification of our portfolio and the introduction of new international accounting standards on reporting. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3010	Thank you, thank you, Miss Lakić. I don't see any more reports. So I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We will now vote on financial reports for the year that ended on 31.12.2016 and the 2016 Annual Report. Out of the 13 – for there was 12, against there was no, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing financial reports for the year which ended on 31.12.2016 and the 2016 Annual Report have been adopted. We're going to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-919/17, dated 04.04.2017. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 45th session, held on 10.05.2017. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. As in the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if he is present and if he appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? He checked in, I can't see from here, Mr. Kadić, he did. Here you go, Mr. Kadić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3012	Dear Chairman, vice-president, distinguished colleagues, all present, I welcome you all together. I would like, as my colleague Raguž said, to say a few sentences about this report for the simple reason that it seems to me that this is the same, as this previous area, very important, very important for this country, and often in parliaments and homes, anywhere that it takes a more detailed story about this area to go undetected. I don't have any dilemmas that I'm going to change in something like that, but, look, I want to say a few sentences that, uh, will be like one of my contributions to opening up maybe some of the stories and problems that exist, that exist in this area. I have to say that this report has really been made up professionally, and otherwise this kind of report is constantly being obtained from these, from this agency, that it has not entered into any undefined, some kind of politics or anything, but that it has accurately presented the state it is in this institution. Several issues are important, and can be read from this information, which is important for all of us, which is that this is the first year in which business was in open market conditions, that Bosnia and Herzegovina presided over the Energy Community in 2016, that a record production of 16.509 gigawatt hours of electricity was achieved, that higher electricity exports were achieved compared to the previous year, that audit reports for this Agency are positive and that the price of electricity in our country is within the prices of countries in the region and far below, we assume, the price in long European countries. The task of us all here in Parliament, both the Council of Ministers and ourselves, as he said, must again be to call on my colleague Raguž, is to get involved more significantly in this, to push these things and to answer some of the questions that we, together in this story, need to be interested in. The legal framework and implementation of the AKI of the Energy Community, where we obviously have problems, I say this as a man from the Commission, who is a member of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs Traffic and Communications, where I was at some meetings, sessions, where we as a country have had a lot of problems in these relations with the Energy Community. I know that Mr. Šarović, within the framework of the entire Council of Ministers, has pointed out these problems a lot, and I have to say that we should be here together, and we and the Council of Ministers, chaired by the Council of Ministers, act faster to remove some of these things that seem to disturb the development of this area even faster. I am in any case supporting this Report and all those who can improve and improve even faster, speed up the development of this segment of the economy that is significant for all and one man in this country. The production of electricity is something, electricity is definitely something we're good at, where we have resources, we have people who know how to do it, we need to focus on these topics because they're certainly the future. This story of energy, in my opinion, needs to overshadow all the other stories that lead us away from development, from something that will be good for all the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3013	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2016. You can vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 13, there was no one against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against, 1 abstention. 22 There is a general majority, there is an entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity was adopted in 2016. Moving to point nine, that's it, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-944/17, dated 05.04.2017. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted this Report at its 45th session, held on 10.05.2017. I give the word to Mrs. Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples. Just like in the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if he is present and appreciates his needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 2016 report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals. Of the present 15 – for there were 12, against none, 3 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, it was not, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 3 for, against, none, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the 2016 Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals was adopted. We're going to the 10th agenda of today's session, that's Ad. Ten. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear security for 2016 – applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-19979/17, of 11.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3019	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3020	Like in the Commission's report, okay. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. The first candidate from the list, so we vote on the appointment of the first candidate from the list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of BiH, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please initiate the voting mechanism. You can vote. From the 15 present – for 9... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You're looking for a repeat, aren't you? We repeat the vote. The first on the list is Mr. Vedad Gurda and we vote on him.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3022	That's the first on the candidate list. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3023	Yes, it is, I explained it, now you'll have to vote again. From the 15 present – for 9... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Come on, please, one more time, you want to do it one more time, are you looking for a repeat? You're not looking. So from the 15 present – for it was 9, versus 3, abstention 3. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, but there's no entity majority. Let's go to round two. Can we go to round two right now? Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 15 present – for it was 9, against 3, abstention 3. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 1 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing a member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of the Conditions of Stay in Institutions, the Treatment and Respect for Human Rights of Persons over whom criminal sanctions and other measures have been imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of BiH, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina have appointed Mr Vedad Gurda. I agree, given that the House of Peoples is a member of the Independent Commission, that I do not read everything, is now, as it has already been said, appointed Mr. Vedad Gurda, and the House of Representatives of the Second Candidate from the List, Mr. Adis Drnd, we must form a Joint Commission in order to agree. Are there any proposals from members of the Joint Coordination Committee? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3025	The Bošnjak Club Mr. Softić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3026	Who, is it Softić? Softić, Mr. Softić, okay. Mr. Nović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3027	Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3028	Ognjen Tadić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3029	Mario Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-29-0.u3030	Mario Karamatić. Thank you. So now we're going to make a statement about the members of this committee. Please initiate the voting mechanism. There were no abstentions from the 15 present – for 14, against the 1st. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, no one, abstentioned, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, 1 against, and no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that Mr Safet Softić, Ognjen Tadić and Mario Karamatić are appointed members of the Joint Coordination Committee on this matter in front of the House of Peoples. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Resolution of the BiH Appeal Office member, issue: 01,02-50-19-1038/17 of 15.05.2017. Mr Arif Nanić submitted 15.05.2017. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has resigned as a member of the BiH Appeals Office. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the discharge of members of the BiH Appeals Office. Run the plea mechanism. Of the present 15 – for 14, there was no, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, none against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have relieved Mr. Arif Nanić of his duties as a member of the BiH Appeal Office. On the agenda, we still have the agreement to ratify agreements and contracts. I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 15 to 18, including item 18 of today's agenda. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Now we vote on, therefore, this proposal to unite the debate. Of the 15 present, all 15 were for, without votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 10 for, without votes against and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 votes to, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So this proposal has been adopted. Ad. 15. - 18. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement and contract 28
