ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3734	Ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, honored guests, I warmly welcome you and open the 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, and representatives of international organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly follow the work of our House. The session is attended by 12 delegates – 4 from the Bosniak people, 5 from Croatia and 3 from the Serbian people. For today's session, leave was justified by delegates Darko Babalj and Sifet Podžić. As you are indicated in the call for a session and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, delegates will be allowed to ask delegate questions in oral form. I remind you that, along with the invitation to the 34th session of the House of Nations, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking delegate questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking delegate questions in oral form at the 34th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Rule 156 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, delegate Dragutin Rodić, to the foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr Mirko Šarović, provided an announcement to ask delegate questions in oral form. In accordance with Rule 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, this announcement was delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent a notice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV service to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Rule 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral delegate questions and giving answers. I give my word to the delegate Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3735	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, present members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since there is no minister here today to whom I asked the question, I will read the question and ask that my oral question be answered in writing. – What are the concrete results of the meeting at the Energy Community Secretariat in Vienna attended by you and the presidents of the governments of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH and the resolution ministers, and the two representatives of the Energy Community, and the main topic was the gas market in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Are there imperative tasks and deadlines to be implemented before Bosnia and Herzegovina, and were there sanctions for not adopting certain legal solutions, the Law on the Regulatory of Electricity and Natural Gas, the Law on Transfer and the Electricity Market in Bosnia and Herzegovina? So I'm asking to be delivered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3736	Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the delegates' questions. For the 34th session, I propose the following amended: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-687/17, since 28.07.2017; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02- 02-1-1378/17, since 28.07.2017; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02-02-1-1377/17, since 19/09/2017; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2808/17, of 05.12.2017, shortened procedure; 6. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on payments to the Single Account and income distribution (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2809/17, of 05.12.2017, shortened procedure; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2810/17, of 05.12.2017, shortened procedure; 8. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, dated 12.05.2017; 9. Getting acquainted with the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Labour Control, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency, issue: 03/2-50-1-18-2/17, of 18.10.2017. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word? Mrs. Ljilja Zovko has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3737	Thank you very much, President. Greetings to all present. 3 I propose on behalf of the Croatian Club supplementing the agenda – Initiative for organising a special thematic session on the subject of the Work of the Judicial Institutions related to the process of war zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3738	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word about the agenda? If I don't suggest we put to the vote the first initiative of Mrs. Ljilja Zovko you just heard. There are 12 delegates present – there were 9, no votes against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted that proposal. With this, we can conclude that today's session agenda has been adopted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no one here. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the minutes of the 33rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 12 delegates present – for 12, without votes against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-687/17, since 28.07.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3741	No microphone 4 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3742	It's like the report. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present and if he wishes. Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3743	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3744	There's no need. Okay, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads to Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – there were 9, no votes against, 3 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 for, without votes against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Thank you very much. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading. Congratulations to the promoter. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-1378/17, since 28.07.2017. At the 32nd session of the House of Peoples, it did not adopt a negative opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the People's House on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Constitutional Commission of the People's House was tasked with drawing up a new Opinion in accordance with Rule 104(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You have received a new opinion from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission found that the draft law amending the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3746	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3747	It's like the report. 5 Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We don't have any reports. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – for it was 7.1 against, 4 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 5 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I therefore conclude that the proposal for a law amending the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02-02-1-1377/17, since 19.09.2017. This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received opinions from the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, with its structure, form and style, is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. The applicant subsequently delivered the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Agency which was missing. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3749	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3750	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We vote on the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. There are 12 delegates present – for there were 7, no votes against, 5 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 5 for, without votes against, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. 6 I therefore find the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. Moving to point five,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3751	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3752	What have you been reported for?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3753	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3754	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3755	Thank you. In fact, point 3, I believe that you've been protecting yourself, so you didn't have to monitor the monitor, there isn't, there's not enough material, if this hadn't been extraordinary, what we've come to have today would definitely have nothing to discuss, so according to point 3, there's no mandated legislator of the Law. Last time we took that act down because he wasn't a proposing present to the session, now we've voted on it. I have not seen in the materials that the legislator has authorized someone else to potentially defend the Law, so I consider this a violation of the Rules of Procedure and of the positive customs that we have in this House. I ask that we return to reverse and remove item 3 from the agenda until the motion of the Law appears at the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3756	We've already spoken to Mr. Karamatić, we've crossed this point. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2808/17, of 05.12.2017, shortened procedure This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. At its 54th session, held on 07.12.2017, he decided to accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH to discuss the draft law under a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, which is in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In 07.12.2017, as regards the Opinion of the Legislative and Legal 7 sector, the Proposer submitted the unofficially consolidated text of the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data BiH. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Commission for Finance and the Budget of the People's House supported the principles of the bill. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3758	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3759	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] As in Law(?) Is it? I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Mario Karamatić has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3761	So, Mr. Chairman, I cannot allow in this highest House legal violence and violation of the Rules of Procedure. I, in turn, came forward in the course of the debate under point 3 for non-compliance with the established agenda, and subsequently corrected for breach of the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure of the People's House in indent 1) writes, and I will read to you, saying, "The President gives his word to an envoy who wishes to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not to observe the established agenda immediately after he has asked for it." So I was looking for a word in the course of that point. If you want to take a break, check with the technical service, I asked for a word, you didn't give it to me, you forced the law that doesn't have an authorised representative, i.e. Proposer. I think this is about a clean breach of the Rules of Procedure. No matter how much you chair the session right now, I can't allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure. I ask you best to go back, to take point three off the press because of the absence of the bill's promoter. It's more than clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3762	I'm really sorry if I didn't see your log-in on the monitor, uh, I don't know if it was registered on the monitor here. The only thing I can do in this situation is ask Dom if we should go back to point 3 as Mr. Karamatić suggests or continue to work. We voted, uh, the point is over, you should report in a timely manner and this verbally if you had a need for it, but, here, I'll put on the vote what you suggest, let the House plead. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3763	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3764	Do you have a need before? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3765	Correction of the wrong quote. Dear President, I have reported in good time during the debate on point 3. I didn't get the word, it joined the vote, it passed point four, my application stood all the time. So, I answered on time, I didn't get my word and the vote went through without the presence of an authorised legislator. I really ask you either to give the House an indication or to consult in the College, because this is at least wrong. If we in this highest legislative body are going to allow a breach of procedures, allow a breach of our Rules of Procedure, so the law that we are making and by which we are working, then this doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3766	So, I apologized to you if I didn't register your application, but what I can only do in this situation can ask the House if we should go back to point 3 or continue to work. It's the only thing that's possible in this situation, anything else would be improvisation. Here, I'm putting this proposal to the vote, Mr. Karamatić, to return to point 3 and correct this mistake that has been made. So 12 delegates joined the vote – for 9, there were no abstentions against 3. The Federation of BiH – 6 votes against, 3 votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, Mr Karamatić's proposal was supported. We're going to go back to point three at this moment, or we might end this point five, so that, as you suggest, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3767	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3768	All right, we're going back to point three. So we return, in accordance with the conclusion adopted by this House, to point 3. I don't think there's any need to start over. I'm going to ask if the House will plead on this point without a proposing present. To approach the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, we'll repeat the question if you don't understand. So, Mr Mario Karamatić suggested that we return to point 3 and that the House, according to the Rules of Procedure, be made clear whether we will plead on the bill's proposal without the promoter's presence. Isn't that right, Mr. Karamatić?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3770	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3771	Then you define your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3772	So, I've applied for a hearing, if we're back at point 3. It doesn't mean that it's put to a vote right away, it's to be discussed. etc. I remind you this House has a custom of one, i.e. one tradition to call it, unless there's a proposal not to discuss the point and get off the agenda. And I suggest that Dom do what we do every time so far and take this point off the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3773	Okay, let's not complicate things, so I'm going to put to the vote a proposal to get this item 3 off the agenda and cancel the results of the vote that were at this point. The vote was joined by 12 delegates – for 10, without votes against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 votes to, without votes against, 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, I find that point 3 has been removed from today's agenda because of the non-preference. Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. We're moving on, so we're going back to point 5. We gave our word to the Proposer of the Law. There was no need. I'm opening a debate on point 5. Is anyone answering for a word? I would like to remind you that this is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). Are there any reports? Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3774	Thank you, Mr. President. This is, I think, the fifth attempt to pass this law, so, here, let's believe not the third happiness, but the fifth happiness. I don't see anyone showing up, so I answered, I won't be long, but I think because of what was present in the public so far, and not only in the public, but in the institutions, about the adoption of this law, and which still, in some way, burdens its adoption, and also opens up a question in the finality of its adoption because it needs to pass both homes, deserves a few words to be said. 10 First, it is clear, therefore, that today, not only in this House, that the parliamentary majority is not a consistent level of Bosnia and Herzegovina when the proposal for this law is at stake and that we clearly have opinions, here, every day in public about it. But that doesn't matter, either, because we all signed a statement on the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Reform Agenda, and that this issue objectively exceeds the issue of position and opposition, so here I am, on that behalf as one of the opposition people, from the opposition, I would like to say, therefore, that we will support this bill if we want to be credible and consistent and remain on those statements and to do indeed something in this country to make things happen and that this wheel is really going towards economic development, recovery and integration of this country into corridors that are already here at the borders. Unfortunately, here we are, not just for years, but for decades we have ignored and obstructed and incompatible. And the other thing I want to say is, therefore, that this is all and in the light of this Law, which has been sent to us by the Council of Ministers, I would say for a reason, described as one of the broadly motivated effects on the overall state of society, from the development of cities and areas that will be along those corridors and roads, to the fact that, in such a kind of project and work, there will be significantly more different types of economic instruments involved, and that they can start new employment and give a serious effect in this regard. And, look, I just want to remind us all here together of this explanation and these promises, so let's see. We've had these promises before, we've had funds, we have hundreds of millions of euros now, several years secured and blocked by the inability and irresponsibility of those who took over the mandate on behalf of the people in the institutions to do this, and we have blocked projects on those corridors. And that is why it should be warned today that when we vote on this, we are not giving it to continue such practices and patterns, but to... feel this public and its people that finally one meter of highway bar will be built. And, here, I remind those who will manage these funds, means the biggest objection to all of us who at the initial stage asked to ensure monitoring of... these funds, to ensure a special account, not to rag holes in the budgets and not to cover inadequate and ineffective policies, but to really use those funds for purpose. I want to believe that with these three laws, we're going to create assumptions that these funds are really being used for purpose, but also expect, so every month and every session, it's going to be a question to see what's been done. I know, here, that the path from a thousand miles begins with this little step, so let it be the beginning of one measure, to see it finally, not just before the election, but hopefully as soon as it's a little bit more serious and to show that we can follow good experiences. Let's follow good experiences. And, here, I will end it, and the Republic of Croatia, here and Serbia see that they are making significant steps, the Republic of Croatia has built one of the most modern highway networks in the recent European history. And what are the effects? We have the largest growth in tourism in the Mediterranean. This country has the same tourism potential that should finally be valorised, so that we finally have one responsible policy, not only contaminating this public space and not dividing ourselves on these issues, but really showing that we want to do something. I believe, here, that all together today will finally lock up this negative story, politicizing, gaining cheap political points and taking responsibility for things moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3775	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I don't see any more reports, Mr. Mario Karamatić, injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3776	I'm really sorry, I'm not going to discuss this point at all, as we've been going through this leap, just to warn the distinguished House that there's no author of 11 Laws either, and I suggest that, after we've made a statement on this point 5, let's also be clear about whether there are any legislators of the Law and that we take down point 4 and cancel the vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3777	I think Mr. Arnaut was a pronoun at point four, so, he was sitting here all the time, I was giving him my word, he refused to speak. And so if you've already driven this thing off point three, there's no need to continue harassing it today. Is there still a debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 11 votes for, 1 vote against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, 1 vote against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. I find there's a general and there's an entity majority. I therefore conclude that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. On the basis of Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I propose that the House be made aware of the proposal that the bill... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Mr. Genjac, is it? All right. On the basis of Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we propose that the House be made aware of the proposal to consider the bill in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission. We'll join the vote on this proposal, this is a proposal from the College. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 11 votes for, 1 vote against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, 1 vote against and without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I therefore conclude that we have adopted a proposal to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina also in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3779	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3780	There's no need. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present, if he wishes. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 11 votes for, 1 vote against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, 1 vote against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading. Mr. Halid Genjac has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3781	I thank the chairman. At this point, we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina in both readings, and this is the Law adopted at the House of Peoples. According to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations The House of Representatives may be the legislator of the Law for the House of Peoples, and according to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall be the Authorised Proposer of the Law for the House of Representatives. So, the House of People can propose to the House of Representatives a bill, it's a provision in the Rules of Procedure of both homes, as I said. This principle has not been thoroughly developed, especially in situations related to related laws, etc., but we in Article 175. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have a provision that the House may, in conclusion, regulate certain issues which are not or are not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure, and the conclusion is binding only on the specific question of the position (1) of this Member. Citing this, this member of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, so Article 175, I propose that the House of Peoples adopt the following conclusion: – After the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 10,02-02-1-2810(?), since 05.12.2017, the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH shall submit to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a proposal to the House of Peoples, with a request to consider it by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Reason: As I said, according to Article 104(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the House of Representatives may also submit a proposal to the House of Representatives. The home of the people can only propose to the House of Representatives a law adopted by the House. Given that the House of Nations has just adopted at today's session of the Proposed Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the condition is met that the House of Peoples adopts a conclusion on the reference to the proposed Law to the House of Representatives as a proposal for the House of Peoples. In view of the deadlines related to the adoption of that proposal, there is a high level of urgency, i.e. there are reasons for considering it as an emergency procedure. 13 So I suggest we adopt this conclusion and, behold, I deliver the conclusion to the leadership of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3782	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3783	Thank you. Well, here, I didn't really think about this set of laws, because it seems to be going and there won't be any problems and it's going to be the same in the House of Representatives and now this turbo acceleration, means it doesn't even have to go in short, but it's the emergency procedure that inspired me a little bit. ... I've heard a lot of opinions and economists of these, those, I've heard a lot of the opinions of our representatives of the government that the adoption of this law on excise duties is going to advance everything in one of our own, so among other things, and to increase the birth rate believe or not. And that's exactly the increase in the birth rate, which is why I've come to tell you what message with this introduction of new excise duties that will result in the collection of this and that, right now, you're sending a message to the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to say what, so if they listen to you, maybe there's an increase in the birth rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3784	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Damir Arnaut, I don't know in what capacity alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3785	Thank you. It's definitely not about these excise laws, but I have a duty to my colleague, Gasal-Vražalica, to read her message to the Secretary of the House of the People...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3786	We already explained it while you were away, so I don't think there's any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3787	Are they breaking the laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3788	No, no, it's not, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3789	So the laws were passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3790	The Law under point 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3791	But she authorized me for 3rd and 4th. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] But I was when the law was passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3793	Yes, but you weren't when Mr. Karamatić answered. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, the Law of Regular Number 4 was passed and it was passed, and Law number 3 was because we didn't know that you were the Proposer on this agenda point, but the House had already declared itself to be off the agenda. Is there any need to wait for this proposal to be multiplied, or should we approach the vote as it is Mr. Genjac? One small suggestion only may be that in the proposal, the conclusion instead of, at the beginning, “to deliver the House to the People” may be to “propose” if you agree, because, to include this intervention in the Proposal for a conclusion and to plead with this intervention on the conclusion proposed by the President of the Club of Bosniaks, Mr Genjac. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3797	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3798	It's like in the text. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue in the first reading. 12 delegates voted – 11 votes for, 1 vote against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, 1 vote against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue was adopted in the first reading. On the basis of Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we propose that the House be made aware of the proposal to consider the bill in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 11 votes for, without votes against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, without votes against and 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a proposal to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3799	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3800	It's like the report. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Zakono. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We vote on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue in the second reading. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 11 votes for, without votes against, with 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, without votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I therefore find that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue has been adopted in the second reading. Mr. Halid Genjac, I assume he has the same conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3801	Thank you. Of course, since it is the laws which are a kind of package, with the same explanation and with the same appeal to the same member, I propose the adoption of the following conclusion: – After the session of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-2809/17, of 05.12.2017, the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to consider it by means of an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3802	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. We don't have any more logs. We will approach the vote on the conclusion proposal as Mr. Genjac suggested. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 11 votes for, 1 vote against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 8 votes to, 1 vote against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted Mr Halid Genjac's proposal to propose a law amending and supplementing the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue 17 to propose to the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02- 1-2810/17, of 05.12.2017, shortened procedure This is the first reading of the bill. Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. At its 54th session, held on 07.12.2017, the College of the Peoples decided to accept a proposal from the Council of Ministers of BiH to discuss the draft law under a shortened procedure and in accordance with Article 123. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Commission on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has found that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, and the text of the bill, follows the structure, shape and style of the Law, which was published before the entry into force of the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In relation to the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, the Proposer also provided the unofficially consolidated text of the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the House of Peoples found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. The Commission for Finance and the Budget of the People's House supported the principles of the bill. I give the word to Mrs Ljilja Zovko, chairman of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3804	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3805	It's like the report. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. The vote was attended by 12 delegates – 10 votes for, 1 vote against, 1 abstention. The Federation of BiH – 7 votes to, 1 vote against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. 18 On the basis of Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, we propose that the House be made aware of the proposal to consider the bill in a second reading without considering it in the relevant committee. The vote was attended by 12 delegates -- 10 votes in favour, with no votes against and 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 votes to, without votes against and 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have adopted a proposal to consider the proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina also in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission. I give the word to Mrs. Ljilja Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3806	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3807	It's like the report. Proposer? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a second reading. The vote was attended by 12 delegates -- 10 votes for, without votes against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 votes to, without votes against and 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in a second reading. Mr. Genjac, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3808	Thank you. Given that this is the third part of this package of interrelated laws, I propose, in accordance with Article 175, the following conclusion to adopt: – After the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Indirect Taxation System in Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01,02-02-1-2810/17, of 05.12.2017, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes to the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the proposed Law amending the Law on the Indirect Taxation System in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a proposal from the People's House to consider it by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3809	Thank you very much. Mr. Mario Karamatić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3810	Thank you. Well, here, not to be clear that I'm constantly criticizing, so last time this set of laws was in this respected House I had a conversation where I was precisely detecting from the data of the Directorate for indirect taxation that between 7 and 9 million KM was not charged because, no excise duties were imposed on biodiesel that were later sold to our citizens under ordinary diesel, the cause and effect of this was damaged by motors, increased public consumption, and someone was getting extra profits and, behold, I'm glad that in this set of laws I finally see that excise duties on biodiesel are being introduced, and you'll see by the data of the Directorate for indirect taxation, or who already does, means at the end of 2018 that the imports of biodiesel in Bosnia and Herzegovina, means, with a few thousand percent of a year, which until now, you'll suddenly experience a steep drop of 200. And so, in my opinion, they could find funds for all of this that you've predicted with this set of laws, but here, it's decided that it's decided, mostly one positive step in this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3811	Thank you very much. We don't have any more logs. I'm putting Mr. Genjac's proposal to vote, Mr. Genjc's proposal for a conclusion. 12 delegates joined the vote... We're gonna do it again. This is some kind of mistake. The vote was attended by 12 delegates -- 10 votes for, without votes against, 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 7 votes to, without votes against and 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the House adopted Mr Genjac's proposal to propose a bill amending the Law on the indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina to propose to the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Mr. Genjac, is this a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3812	I only apologize for one technical one, when I read these conclusions regarding the first law, I misread the Excise Act 2810, and think of the 2808 only that correction for the stenogram that we have, therefore the law is, the Excise Act No: 01,02-02-1-2808/17, and not 2810, for stenograms only please, technical error.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3813	Thank you very much. 20 This is a technical correction. Let's move on, let's move on to point eight, Ad. 8. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17, since 12/05.2017 You have received the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The Commission adopted the Report. At the 52nd session, the House of Representatives adopted the Report. I give my word to a representative of the Joint Committee on Human Rights at a session of the House of Peoples. I give the word to the Reporter. He's not there. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3817	Thank you. Here, with all due respect to the lady, until now, always if the ministry has defended the bill by either the secretary-general of the ministry or the deputy minister or minister. If we continue this way, it may happen to us that at the next session of the House of Nations, the law defends a senior self-response in some hot drink ministry, I saw that even in... institutions, the truth is not in this one. My suggestion is, with all due respect and respect for Madam Assistant Minister, that we take this off the agenda until there's either the secretary of the ministry or the deputy minister or minister here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3818	Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? 21 If not, we will put in a proposal for Mr. Karamatić to remove this from the agenda, although we have an authorised promoter at the session. We are voting on Mr Karamatić's proposal to remove this item from the agenda. The vote was attended by 12 delegates -- 9 votes for, 2 votes against, one abstention. The Federation of BiH – 6 votes to, 2 votes against, 1 abstention, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that Mr. Karamatić's proposal has been given the necessary majority and I find that point 8. We have removed it from today's agenda. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Getting acquainted with the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Oversight of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Intelligence and Security Agency, issue: 03/2-50-1-18-2/17, of 18.10.2017. You have reached the conclusion of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3820	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief, this proposal should be, in fact, this conclusion should be found, uh, or notice, at that last session, but I don't know for what reasons, probably the technical services didn't deliver it in time. Otherwise, such a conclusion has also been delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, it is the fact that, according to certain provisions, the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Joint Commission, it is prescribed that if the chairman of this Committee, which must by force of the law, is prevented from holding a meeting, it is changed by the first deputy. If he too is prevented, then he is replaced by another deputy, and if that place remains vacant, then both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly are immediately notified. Furthermore, the Rules of Procedure say nothing, however, obviously that there have been some problems here that are not related to our House, but to the House of Representatives. There was a lack of respect for the provisions of the laws on proportionate representation, i.e. party representation in force in this Committee. Here, that's what I wanted to say very briefly. I think that, here, since this conclusion is going to be given to the House of Representatives, but here, maybe, after all, it goes to at least the College of the House of Representatives to get to know that we discussed this, and now it's at the House of Representatives to do what it would do, what the law requires it to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3821	Thank you very much. Mr. Sredoje Nović has a word. Here you go. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3822	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here you see today's session, and I haven't answered for a word for the simple reason why, so that no opposition today, nor would there be this session, nor would there be any adoption of any of the points of the agenda and of the laws that are in today's session. That must be thought well, but I think that they will no longer be imagined, think more about October 2018, than they think about this Bosnia and Herzegovina those who are almost, here, three years ago, sitting in one place and agreeing on a strategy to form power and get, as colleagues and colleagues would say, instructions, or we would say, instructions, or somehow a third, and here's what we, which absurds we have come to. And I'm not going to talk anymore, because that's not even the point of the agenda anymore, but I'm going back to this one. We're discussing here today, and Mr. Čolak has said why the Intelligence Commission is not working. Why? Can we at all believe that in one House, the highest home of this country, they say and do not say, but they vote and act that way, to kick one member of the Commission out of the strongest opposition party and they do not want to take from the opposition party any more. Is this violence against this legal call state, Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is that what we're trying to do on our way to Europe? If that's the way to Europe, I'm absolutely against it, it's not the way to Europe. Why are we doing this? What are we doing? And of course, those games were thought to go on somehow different, right, yeah, nothing to us is disputed, taken from some other parties, ruling ones, though now they seem all opposition, so maybe it won't matter anymore, uh, these days and these months, is it, and what we got? Of course, as a former member of that Commission, it didn't occur to me that you were sitting where legal violence is being committed, and you all know it well. You shouldn't even be a lawyer here, you shouldn't be a sociologist here, you shouldn't be a psychologist here, we all know that's true. Niko moves to make it right. Why? I'm just asking the government why, and to all of us after all, why are we doing this? We did not want today as opposition parties, at least from Republika Srpska, to boycott, neither of us to come, nor to vote for what is here today, because it is too significant and important, as a colleague of Raguž said, for the journey, possibly, to Europe. And that's why I am and I support Mr. Čolak's position that this question must be at least, let's say, let's remind, here's no more serious word to say, the House of Representatives to return to the scope of the law, Article 18, of the Intelligence and Security Act, in which it is decidently said that there must be a proportional political party in this Commission. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3823	Thank you very much, Mr. Nović. We have no more reports, Mr. Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3824	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, on the basis of what the chairman of the Serbian People's Club said, I propose on behalf of the Club the following conclusion to this high House: – The House of Nations finds that the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH has not been established in accordance with Article 18(4) of the Security and Security Agency Act. I quote - Members of the Commission are running in accordance with the 23 principle of proportionate representation of political parties in the House of Representatives. The conclusion shall be delivered to the House of Representatives for introduction.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3825	Thank you very much. Can we get that proposal to your conclusion? We don't have any more logs. We need to make clear about this conclusion of the Joint Commission on the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, and before that we will declare the proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr Dragutin Rodić. We'll approach the vote. Did you need anything, Mr. Genjac?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3826	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3827	Now he has read it right now, I can repeat it – The House of the People finds that the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency has not been established in accordance with Article 18(4) of the Security and Security Agency Act. Members of the Commission are running in accordance with the principle of proportionate representation of political parties in the House of Representatives, so the Cyrillic is a little harder to go. The conclusion shall be delivered to the House of Representatives for introduction. We'll approach the vote. There are 12 delegates present – 9 votes for, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 6 votes to, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I understand that Mr Rodić's proposal for a conclusion has received the necessary majority and will be delivered to the House of Representatives for Information. We will now approach the vote on receiving the Joint Commission's conclusion on the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH. The vote was attended by 12 delegates -- 12 votes for, without votes against, without abstentions. The Federation of BiH -- 9 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that we adopted the initiative, no, no, just for a moment, we adopted, therefore, the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency and received knowledge. Moving to point ten, Ad. Ten. Initiative to organise a special thematic session on the subject of “The work of judicial institutions related to the processing of war crimes” – applicant: delegate Ljilja Zovko 24 You have received an initiative to organise a special thematic session on the subject "The work of judicial institutions related to the processing of war crimes submitted by delegate Ljilja Zovko. I give my word to the applicant, Mrs. Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3829	Thank you very much, President. Well, here, this is a very important topic in these difficult moments in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, and I think it is very important to do one thematic session and this opportunity of the public, this one, to know, so that all institutions and all interested in reporting, here, to the Club of the Croatian People, or to prepare for this thematic session, and we will, of course, try and prepare the materials, both the Dom, and the institutions, and everyone interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3830	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The word is Mr. Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3831	Just because of the stenogram, this is an initiative of the Club of Envoys from the ranks of the Croatian people, not individual, which was presented on behalf of the Club by the president of the Club. I think it should get into the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3832	All right. If there's anything up to me, I'm sorry, although I got it the way it was read earlier. Is anyone else answering for word? Mr. Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3833	Just a small addition to what distinguished counterpart Zovko and counterpart Martin Raguž said, meaning not only to report to the Croatian People's Club, meaning the initiative is for a thematic session – the work of judicial institutions related to the processing of war crimes, means no restrictions, from municipal courts to The Hague tribunal. I call on all the defenders, regardless of what army they were in, to report to both the Serbian People's Club and the Bosniak People's Club, because I believe that among all three people there are those who think there are politically-produced indictments, that there are those who are less suitable to someone at some point, whether they leave them for water, that someone has got much more than they should, and that someone has not been freed, and I think it is time for a comprehensive debate to be held in this House. We're hardly going to get along with who's a criminal and who's a hero, but we can get those things to clean up. 25 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-07-0.u3834	We don't have any more reports, we can conclude a debate on this agenda point. Now we're going to vote on this initiative. The vote was attended by 12 delegates -- 8 votes for, without votes against, four abstentions. The Federation of BiH – 5 votes to, without votes against, 4 abstentions, Republika Srpska – 3 votes to, without votes against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that we have adopted an initiative to organise a special thematic session on the subject of "The work of judicial institutions related to the processing of war crimes". We've exhausted the agenda of today's session. Mr. Arnaut once again warns me that he was, in connection with point 3, an authorised proposer from Mrs. Maja Gasal-The Vražalica. Unfortunately, he was absent from the O.R. when Dom declared that this point was removed from the agenda. I don't think this is about any urgency, we're going to treat it at the first next session, what happened today. I thank you for your presence, for your constructive work. You will be notified of the date of the next session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 3:30.
