ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3327	Ladies and gentlemen of the envoys, honored guests, I warmly welcome you all and open the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers and representatives of the BiH market surveillance agencies, the Export and Credit Agency of BiH, and representatives of international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our House. There are 14 envoys present from 4 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people. For justified reasons today is not possible to be present, at least here I have such information, at the meeting of my colleague Radončić. For today's session, the absence was justified by Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović. As indicated in your call for today’s session, and in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 32nd session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters regarding the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 32nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Sredoje Nović for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić; representative Dragutin Rodić as chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić and envoy Mario Karamatić as BiH Minister of Security, Mr Dragan Mektić. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure of this Decision, the President of the Council of Ministers and that member of the Council of Ministers to which the question relates have been delivered. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Television Service to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155 (1), the first paragraph of our Rules of Procedure. Now we can start asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Sredoje Nović. Mr. Nović, go ahead. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3328	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my question concerns the following: Does the Council of Ministers of BiH plan to hold a joint meeting of the Council of Ministers with the Government of Republika Srpska and the Government of the Federation of BiH by the end of 2017 or in the first half of 2018? The reason why I ask this question is simple, I appreciate that it is very important that this session is held taking into account the problems that are constantly manifested in the realisation of issues that are of interest to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular the implementation of the Reform Agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3329	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3330	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Members of the College, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, distinguished media and guests, I welcome you all on behalf of me and on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH and I thank the honourable representative for the question and can say that activities in the domain of co-operation between the Council of Ministers and the government of entities, but the Canton government are certainly the most comprehensive and intense in the last twenty years of all activities and all developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, we have appointed nearly 1,400 working groups within the Co-ordination Mechanism, which comes from all levels of government, so it's about dozens and hundreds of meetings where it actively participates, I repeat, almost 1,400 representatives of institutions from all levels of government, who are working very actively on a number of issues, in this case on issues of European integration, but in parallel with this we have very good and meaningful and intensive co-operation between ministries and agencies from the state level, from the level of entities and from the level of entities in that area where entities have their constitutional competences, here's a specific area of education. In addition, we have very frequent meetings, i.e. we will continue the activities at which the meeting is held, I say, the College or the Board of Ministers' narrow leadership with the governments of entities, which means in the case of the Council of Ministers of the Chairman and my esteemed deputies, in the case of entities mostly prime ministers and finance ministers, and the following thematic ministers, if these are thematic areas and indeed a large number of different issues have been resolved precisely at such meetings. Of course, if we consider that it is necessary to hold a wider meeting where we would be invited and ministers who touch or are related to topics from the Reform Agenda, the Coordination Mechanism, the settlement of questionnaires or any other issues related to European or economic integration, the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, we will do so, but I repeat, so almost 1,400 people are working very actively, working daily. So far, several meetings of the European Integration College have been held, and its composition is the prime ministers of the entity, chairman of the Council of Ministers with our deputies, and this may be the first time in Bosnia and Herzegovina's history that they have been held, that a whole series of such meetings have been held. 3 So, co-operation is very intense, we disagree, of course, always on all issues, but I can say that after a series of meetings, good preparations, presentations of the right facts, that, in the end, regardless of the complex political, constitutional structure of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is an agreement, there is even consensus and a solution. I remind you that these working groups have to make all their decisions practically by consensus and they have succeeded in some capacity that even exceeds a percentage of almost 95%, 96% or 97%. So, co-operation exists, very often it is respected that there is no co-operation, on the contrary it exists, and we are ready to further intensify it and make a substantial improvement at the moment, here, when it is estimated that such co-operation will be necessary. The next week is a session, a joint session of the government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska, after which we will have a joint meeting with the representatives of the Council of Ministers and, of course, we will make some arrangements and some rhythm of our further, our further co-operation in order to improve those processes that are important for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3331	Thank you, Mr. President. Is Ambassador Nović satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3332	So I don't think it's questionable that this co-operation exists and it's obviously necessary, that there are so many hundreds or I don't know how many working groups already, working groups are working groups and we all know very well what working groups mean, how they work, etc. But I have to admit to you or express my position that, at least in public, at least in public, I say that things don't work exactly that great, idyllic, as they seem, and as I have heard here, for the simple reason that after every more significant decision, not every, but much more significant decision on the Council of Ministers, which concerns the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we always have different attitudes, and it is or is not something agreed, is or is not something in the spirit of the Constitution, jurisdiction, etc. I personally think that if there is already a practice to hold meetings with the governments of Croatia, conjoined countries, so Serbia, and I don't see anything that has been brought into line at these meetings, in the end we see this through the Peljega Bridge and some other developments, or questions, I don't see why the Council of Ministers doesn't hold meetings with its governments, or the governments of entities, because if we don't solve all the key issues within Bosnia and Herzegovina, all our sittings with our neighbours won't help us, then there are always dangers of coming to an internally different position, and I have asked that question. Because it must be admitted that, it seems to me, there are even ministers who have never set foot in the government of Republika Srpska, with all due respect for some arrangements at meetings, etc. I think that practice should change a little, regardless of personal animosities, regardless of some burdens that we all carry politically, and I really do, here, if I may suggest at all, it seems to me that it would be good for the relaxation of relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina to hold such meetings with the government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska, of course not including cantons when it requires a particular question. There's so much and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3333	Thank you, Mr. Nović. I give my word to Ambassador Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3334	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and reads – the European Commission in Trieste announced seven projects aimed at improving transport and energy ties in the Western Balkans and the region with the EU, four projects delivered by Bosnia and Herzegovina for a 46m-euro grant. EU Enlargement and Neighbourhood Commissioner Johanes Han asked the BiH Council of Ministers to secure co-ordination in Bosnia and Herzegovina to sign the Treaty of Accession of the Southeast European Transport Community and to amend the Excise Law. EU Special Representative and EU Delegation to BiH Lars Gunar Vigemark said the signing of the South East European Transport Community Treaty, although it was two months late, an important step towards regional co-operation, but that Bosnia and Herzegovina would provide free cash and loans as soon as possible to adopt a set of excise laws. It can be concluded from these statements that these conditions are set cumulatively, which means there is no money without meeting both conditions. Given that we know the situation regarding the set of excise laws and their fate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, although the House of Peoples adopted these laws by emergency procedure, and the House of Representatives has not in several attempts, my question is: Do you and the Council of Ministers have a plan to resolve this issue, since it is obvious that without cumulatively fulfilling the conditions there is no realisation of the funds, and hence the possibility of realising planned projects, especially if there is no parliamentary majority supporting the work of the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3335	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3336	Thank you very much. Allow me just one brief comment on what the honourable representative Nović said, without, of course, the intention of leading any controversy. Of course, it is unnecessary and cannot be a sign of equality between the joint sessions held by the BiH Council of Ministers with the governments of Croatia and Serbia, because it is a common session of independent states and it cannot be the same as holding a joint session with the entity governments, it is a fundamental and huge difference. On the other hand, a lot of things have been resolved at joint sessions with the government of Serbia and the Government of Croatia, a lot of questions have been answered and opened, but of course we did not have the ambition to solve what was unsettled for twenty years through one session, but we will continue to hold these sessions and we will be able to deal with these important issues phasely. In any case, we are fully open to strengthening internal dialogue, to strengthen the internal political will, as I do, no one in the Council of Ministers has a problem with that. I may be one of the chairmans of the Council of Ministers who has been during his current term the largest number of times in the visit to the Republika Srpska government, so we have no problem with this and we will continue and your suggestion is useful and I thank you for that. 5 As far as the questions of the respected representative Rodić are concerned, you as well as we all know that there were in some way two conditions for the activation of the projects that Bosnia and Herzegovina received in Trieste. I must again underline, not because of the need to commend the Council of Ministers, myself or anyone else, but out of a total of six projects awarded four, Bosnia and Herzegovina received really very high quality preparations, which we had previously done, but the conditions for this were the signing of the Transport Community Treaty as a base condition, so.... without whom it could not go on any other condition. Now that we've solved it, stay, of course, excise. As before, the Council of Ministers had a plan, when we talk about the Excise Act, we have always made very clear the benefits that the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina would receive if excise duties were increased, it is an investment cycle on road construction that would cover every part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But as it usually happens to be a practice, the issue is transferred from the field of expertise to the policy field or to say the field of politics, so that, of course, in the House of Representatives, this law was not adopted, although in the House of Peoples, of course, it was adopted and you fully understood the legitimate reasons, were extremely serious to adopt such a Act of Accises. We will, of course, return the Excise Act to the procedure itself, conduct talks with all those who are interested in hearing another argument from the Council of Ministers, and here I really hope that the strength of the arguments will be stronger than any personal or particular political interests and that, finally, in some condensed, rapid period of time, we will adopt excise duties. So, they're of course important because of the total road construction, it's not just a question of projects from Trieste, it's almost 16 different shares on 5C highways, most of which are invested by EBRD and EIB funds, so the issue is building highways across BiH, third lanes, bridges, bypasses, etc. So, one serious investment cycle in Bosnia and Herzegovina and certainly, of course, is closely linked to the IMF arrangement, with the IMF. akciza are not the only condition of the IMF, the IMF's intentional base is fiscal stability and financial discipline within Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course there are certain, certain concerns of the IMF, especially due to the uncertainty of the level of potential deficit within the government of Republika Srpska, so these issues will be issues that will have to be resolved to the end, but in any case the excise is one of the previous measures and we are going to realise the previous measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3337	Thank you, Mr. President. Is the envoy satisfied with the offer of an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3338	Thank you to the Council of Ministers, I have also asked the question that through these parliamentary issues, I, uh, get one broad information and that the public be aware of the course of all this and, of course, I personally believe this has been transferred to the field of politics, but the responsibility still lies with those parties in every democratic state who support the work of the Council of Ministers. And here I have to say that when I talked about the adoption of an emergency procedure law in this House, there was no view of any position, no opposition, but we realized the real moment in which we live. And these funds, I agree absolutely with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, can solve many projects that are a prerequisite for what we all seek, attracting foreign investment and all that is needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3339	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. I'd like to invite an envoy, Maria Karamatić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I see there are also some new faces, so here to warmly welcome them, welcome to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. My question was, should be referred to the Honorable Minister Mektić, I don't see him here, and I wouldn't, I don't really know what this is, so can anyone come to whom I want to ask the question, but come on. Here I would ask that a stenogram of my question be sent to him and that he take appropriate steps or answer me in writing that he will not. On the 24th of this month, I was in Sarajevo, of course, because I am not in the habit of walking in Sarajevo in my spare time, given the two terrorist attacks that took place in the mandate, here I am also in this Council of Ministers and this Parliamentary Assembly, given the recent events with the President of the Federation, Mr. Čavar on the highway, in my opinion, the assassination attempt of the commander of the Armed Forces and the throwing of explosive devices in front of him in the tunnel, and given that before a certain time I had received very serious death threats from a highly radicalised person and were working on both the SIPA and the Federal MUP, and confirmed that it was a highly radical person and that it was not at all, as they say from the previously known police, I saw some events that have taken my suspicion. I stopped with police officers Canton Sarajevo, precisely Mr Ibrahim Džihanić and Mensur Skenderović and asked them to escort me to the exit from Canton of Sarajevo, i.e. to leave this dark villa, get my hands on our beautiful Herzegovina-Neretva County and continue my journey to Herzegovina. The gentlemen are... and I have given them, of course, my card on which it says, quote - in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and the law of the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entity are obliged to provide all necessary assistance to the holder of this envoy's card. I am aware that I am not a member of the Bureau, so that the Ministry of the Interior will bring in foreign citizens because someone has shown a finger, but if the holder of such a card asks only that they send it away is not at least polite that the employees of the Ministry of the Interior answer him – we know who you are and we know what you are saying. That wasn't threatening, that there was no confusion, I was alone, but there were only two of them. The fact is that they refused to send me away and I'm not looking for a disciplinary procedure, so there are employees and beings, I'm asking the Minister of Security to send a circular e-mail to all the police agencies in this country, to all the cantonal MUPs, Mr. Mektić as the first pendrect of this country, means that the repressive apparatus informs the holder of the House of People's ID must provide adequate assistance. I think it's unacceptable, and here I expect an answer from a respected minister or at least some reaction, if those swans in his head allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3341	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Let's move on, envoy Mario Karamatić received two answers to the envoy's questions from Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign minister, Mr Igor Crnadko. Envoy Ljilja 7 Zovko received a response from the BiH Council of Ministers, envoy Darko Babalj received a response from the BiH Statistics Agency. Now I ask the envoys, this is how I read it, are the envoys satisfied with the answers? Mr. Karamatić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3342	I'm with one in whole, with one in part, but we'll discuss the other technical details this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3343	... Mr. Karamatić. Ambassador Ljilja Zovko, is she satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3344	Thank you very much. I am pleased with this part of the answer, and I stress that I expect answers from the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3345	Thank you. Mr. Darko Babalj, are you satisfied with the answer of the Statistics Agency, Mr. Babalj?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3346	Here's a little bit of a sentence. I was given an answer to these two questions, which concerns the number of assistant directors and the number of heads of interior units from Republika Srpska to the BiH Statistics Agency. The answer is short and clear and the first question is – of the current employees of the three assistants at the Statistics Agency, none are from Republika Srpska. I was surprised by the response, we are constantly talking about the need for balanced employment of the Federation of BiH, from Republika Srpska to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because these are ultimately joint institutions and should provide proportionate entity representation of employees. We also hear very often that it is not always possible in every institution to balance it because of legal constraints, etc. etc. And I respect that very well. When I read this second answer, which I received, then it says, in response -- that a total of 20 heads of the Organizational Units at the Statistics Agency are only one from Republika Srpska, which means 20 bosses are just 1 from Republika Srpska. At first I thought it was a mistake, so I asked the question again, but again in a brief answer I got and we realize it wasn't a mistake, so this is the correct information. So, from 23 state officials, three assistant directors and 20 bosses, who run the Statistics Agency, there's only one from Republika Srpska. Of course, here's to saying, we're not going to bring this all down to politics 8 but I think we need to deal with situations like this so that they don't repeat themselves in the future. I'm gonna Postavić another question, but I'm not gonna do it to this opportunity but to the other one, so I'm gonna wait for the answer and hope I don't wait for him for three months like I was waiting for him last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3347	Thank you, Mr. Babalj. For the 32nd session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (second reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2610/16 of 24.03.2017; 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (second reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Act No: 01-02-1-814/17 of 25.04.2017; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Management (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17 of 20.03.2017; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1610/17 of 04.07.2017, shortened procedure; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Road Safety at Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-374/17 since 28.07.2017; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-687/17 of 28.07.2017, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Law No: 02-02-1-1378/17 of 28.07.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Paraliamentary Assembly of BiH; 9. Declaration by the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the suspension of the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-652/17 of 24.03.2017; 10. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-141/17 of 05.06.2017; 11. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-946/17 of 05.04.2017; 12. Annual report in the area of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 with information on the implementation of the conclusions of the 28th session of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held 04.05.2017, applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01.02-28-1791/17 of 20.07.2017; 9 13. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17 of 12.05.2017; 14. Information on the activities of the BiH Market Control Agency, materials of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 03/3-50-14-9-12-3/17 of 16.06.2017; 15. Programme for the Development of the Protection and Rescue System at the level of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 02-04-1049/17 of 25.05.2017; 16. Report on the establishment of a proposal for a run-list of candidates for the selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, applicant: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the selection procedure of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, issue: 01,02-50-14-686-6,1/17 of 20.09.2017; 17. Proposal for a conclusion amending the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment to the Election Law of BiH, issue: 02-34-1-746/17 since 28.09.2017; 18. Approving the ratification of the Loan Agreement (the Employment Support Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-1546/17 of 22.06.2017; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in the accession process to the European Union, No 01,02-05-2-1902/17 since 31.07.2017. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Is there any proposal to amend and supplement the agenda for today's session? Ambassador Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3348	Thank you very much, President. In accordance with Article 61 of Regulation (EU) No The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose a new item of the agenda of this session, following the draft law under the regular number of 9th item – Information on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At its 51st session, held on 7 and 13 September 2017, the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives adopted the Declaration, which concerns the problem of building the mainland-Peljesac bridge and other issues about the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, as well as the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU. In the Declaration, the Parliamentary House of BiH called for the BiH Constitution and for provisions relating to the powers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, neglecting the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly consists of two homes. With this in mind, I believe that the Constitution of BiH has been violated and that the House of Peoples of the Paramentary Assembly of BiH needs to discuss this topic, this issue and take a stand on the violation of the BiH Constitution and the competence of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3349	Thank you. Is there any further suggestions for amending and supplementing the agenda for today's session? There isn't. I will now conclude the debate on the agenda, oh, excuse me, there is. Mr. Genjac answered, didn't he? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3350	...the chairman. So we are still in discussion on the agenda and on the supplemental proposal I have to respond to a number of allegations that are very controversial. So, the House of Representatives is one of the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the House can bring declarations, conclusions, etc., as the House of Peoples can bring on its own... it is in the Rules of Procedure as well. There is nothing controversial in the Constitution about this, because the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives are equal homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. And the third thing, does that mean that one of the homes will judge whether the other home works constitutionally or unconstitutionally, I think it's a pretty risky operation. Finally, the third thing, the content of the resolution, that is, the Declaration adopted by the House of Representatives, should be seen in the context of relevance, the accuracy of facts, and this should be judged by Members who adopted such an act at the House of Representatives. So I think that this, this proposal that contains the intention to reduce the importance of the act adopted at the House of Representatives, I understand the intention, but is not appropriate in parliamentary practice and I don't think that this point should be on the agenda and, of course, we will be against that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3351	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I will now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, put on your statement this proposal. _________(?) Correction of the wrong quote, Lilja Zovko. [[no microphone turned on]] .... Mrs. Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3353	Well, I'd just like to clarify, uh, Mr. Genjac. I'd ask him to read the proposal and he'll see that there's nothing he's been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3354	Thank you. 11 We will now declare your proposal. I'm asking the services to run... Of the 14 present – there were 8 against 4.2 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against, there were no abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, there were no votes against, 2 abstentions. I find that there is a general majority and there is an entity majority, therefore this is now – Information on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the parliamentary House of BiH becomes the 9th item of the agenda of today's session. I ask the service to prepare the agenda as is adopted today's agenda, and we'll start working, uh, from, (?) No microphone turned on We'll start working, and I'd like the services to also share material on this agenda point, so that the envoys, the envoys, can get acquainted with that, that they don't have to wait until the very point. Thank you. Let's move on, let's go to the first item of the agenda. So, if there's any need to plead now. Secretary, please, is there any need to plead now about...?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3356	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3357	There's no need to make a statement about the agenda because this one's agreed and now we've voted this one point on the agenda. Well, let's do it one way or the other, that's it, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I don't see any reports, so there was no interest in the debate. We can go straight to the plea. You can vote. Of the 14 people present, all 14 were in favour, so there were no votes against. From the Federation of BiH - all 9 for, without votes against and abstentions. From Republika Srpska -- five votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions. I find that there is a general majority, there is an ethnic majority and I find that the minutes of the 31st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. 12 We move to the second item of the agenda of today’s session, that is, Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of BiH (second reading), Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-2610/16 of 24.03.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3360	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3361	Like in the report, there's no need, okay. Thank you. I give my word to the legislator if he is present and appreciates his need. There isn't. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. Who answered for the hearing? We have a registered envoy, Mrs. Zdenka Džambas. I give you my word. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3362	I join the greetings at the very beginning, so I don't list all my colleagues and fellow envoys and guests. When we talk about laws that come to us here at the House of Peoples of the House of Representatives, then these are usually laws that pass very easily at the House of Representatives, and they do not pass laws that would help the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as excises, such as massive construction that would be, it is irrelevant that 500 million is questionable, it is irrelevant that the IMF cannot grant credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina, everything is irrelevant. And then we have laws that are about to go to populistism and what we have on the agenda today and the municipal council everyone has, more serious decisions they make than what we're going to do. As far as this law is concerned, we two months ago, and more than two months ago we debated here and we sought opportunities very responsible in our Finance Committee how to meet, as it is now said, because it is no longer called an increase in wages, but it is called agreeing with something, and to do so in the framework of the budget that we are given, therefore, by protecting the budget. So we gave 60 days to the Council of Ministers to say if they exist, I have this conclusion, so if there are any internal means that we could help this category from which we started, which means I have 616 marks of pay, of which we started, that's where we should react. In the meantime, we delayed, we had committees, we didn't get anything from the Council of Ministers, because from before there was a negative opinion. So we suggested everything, we tried every possible way to please the cops, and today, this morning, we had a session where 13 Union Presidents said that they were also trying between individual agencies within the Ministry of Security and through the Secretary of Security to comb the situation in the police and they themselves said that, linearly, they're all increasing, they say it's linearly, I don't know so much. However, they differ, SIPA differs from those of the Agency for Coordination, etc., that is something they failed to resolve as the Union within the Ministry of Security. And so looking for those solutions really honestly, keeping the budget, then my esteemed colleague said that, we know that the police have over 3,000 at BiH level and I agree with his statement, that he counted and knows that over 1,000 police officers are members of his people, and that he will protect the people. Now, as a representative of the Croatian people, I say, that I do not know exactly how many Hrvat in the police at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will also vote for this Law, and I do not know how the budget will go, because I also want to protect the interests of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3363	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. An envoy, Mr. Dragutin Rodić. Here you go, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3364	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the fact that this is the second reading of this Law and that we have held almost a few months of discussion on committees about it, and also at the last session of the House of Peoples when we adopted this Law in our first reading and then we raised our hands and that is because, at least at that moment, we had certain indications that it was possible for the financial effects to follow what we are going to adopt in this Law today. I immediately have to say that it's quite justified to coordinate and equalize, however you will, the coefficient of civil servants with police officers, is it also evident that there are important differences when it comes to it. And here, I'll just say that a civil servant, let's say, an expert associate has a 2.10 coefficient and police officers, a junior inspector, 1.95 etc. to make these coefficients more visible. So the proposal in the law is that the coefficient is even and that would be nothing questionable if the financial effects of that equalisation were needed and the necessary funds of 11 million KM. Also, working in the Commission, it was clear that we were trying to find possible solutions, but from the very beginning and when we were getting information, reports from the Ministry of Finance and from the Ministry of Security, it was clear that it was not possible to find a solution to this issue within the existing budgetary framework. However, at the previous session that was held in July this year, when we discussed this issue, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, here I will quote - to accept the obligation to find a solution to the increase of funds and these coefficients. Following this, we still had this Commission today, and the members of the Commission no one had the general view that this Law should not be adopted, but had one kind of responsibility whether we are entering into something that is inconclusive, whether it is on the scale with the Reform Agenda, with the International Monetary Fund, etc. It prevailed that this Law should be supported and that today it is likely that the House of Nations should adopt the Law. I'll just remind you of something else. All the time we've been working through the Administrative Commission, and through the Finance and Budget Commission, and through the conclusions of this House, we've been constantly asked to come up with a single solution, a single integrated law that will address these issues in a unified manner and that we will not have a flood of certain proposals. Of course, every delegate, MP and others in accordance with their rules of procedure have the right to 14 propose laws, but I am afraid that through these proposals we do not see the essence and there can always be some proportionality. However, given that the situation is the way it is, I just want to point out that today when we adopt this Law, tomorrow we can expect other amendments and additions to the Law and the military, which is much more, that simply, if we do not approach this systemically, we will get an ad hoc solution that we will always look for certain solutions that may be populism in a particular area. We can say, here, we've advocated that certain categories get certain rights, I think they should, but we have to make sure once that it has to be a solution where we won't have five, six laws that propose solutions for certain categories of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3365	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Mr. Nović signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3366	Well, you see, by accepting what a colleague and colleague have put forward about this Law, and especially, the particular position of the Ministry of Finance that there is no money, an important question arises – what are we doing, are we the Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliament that really needs to pass the laws? All and one member of the police structures with the right tomorrow, if this law is not applied on the day of publication as it stands here, will have the right to sue Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is quite understandable and I am giving them absolute support in this direction. It's amazing, first of all, to say that I am absolutely in favour of solving the issues of this population, because it is very, very, very close and familiar to me, and I know what all these people are exposed to, but to avoid the system solution and other categories that should be, and I guarantee you that they will appear, not now, but in 15 or a month – what will you gentlemen do then? What are we gonna do then? Are we all going to say this just as condescendingly, so good to do? This reminds me of the Law on Demobilised Fighters some year when, true, it was already pre-election years, so it was easier to manipulate, when it was necessary to pass a law with several million to provide demobilised fighters, and then faced inconceivable problems both the Federation and Republika Srpska, and the then Council of Ministers. Then what are we really doing? And the second question, I'm a little surprised at the Union of Police Structures, don't you gentlemen at the Union be advocating for, uh, executive structures just. A cop gets at least here, he's a business carrier, they're not inspectors, they're not generals, there's nobody there but police structures. And the police as police, look at what he's getting here, look at the number of cops, and how many cops each gets, and how much does the inspector and the chief inspector get, so you're going to see a distance of 500,000 marks. So, I refer this to a complete remark, first of all, to the Syndicate, who did not have the strength to oppose the leadership structures within the police structures and to say – you can't get that much, but that much, they get first of all police structures. We, or I'll certainly vote for this, I'm not the ruling one here, and I could say it one way or another, take the free responsibility for myself, here's 10, 11, here's a colleague who said it's 11 million, but be ready in a month when there's a lot more than a thousand of defense people who are going to need to increase. I don't know what the Ministry of Finance will do, or the Council of Ministers, or all of us, when we know that there is no increase in 15 salaries and there is no, there is no, on the other hand, resolution in this way. So, given the status of police structures, given that they are truly miraculous and how it happened that these police structures were at the time, and no one reacted, stayed below the level of government employees, it's now another time and several years ago, that we're not going back to it all. Of course, I will personally support this Law because I know what this structure means in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how much they need to work for, here under these conditions 600 and, someone calculated, is 50 marks, uh, monthly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3367	Thank you, Mr. Nović. The first vice-president, Mr Tadić, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests. So, from a seemingly completely formal topic that needs to correct one obvious mistake, there has been a situation where, I guess, every single one of us who is involved in this for himself is looking for some role to be seen by the police as an angel of protectors, some blue angel who now, behold, cares, etc. etc. So we've over-hyperbolized, so to speak, rather than let's get this back to a normal course of events. It is clear that there have been some solutions that are to the detriment of MPs and delegates and other people who have shortened some of their rights, it is clear that the people are a list against these rights, and we are the people's representatives here. What someone else had before, we took away that right ourselves, I personally treat it as a situation where I say, here in the period when it came to me, I wasn't the one who lured some things, but at the proposal of one of the colleagues who, uh, found a way to get through it, came to us, to the House of Peoples, and we confirmed it. So there's no need for us to be here in front of the public, uh, whatever we're doing as someone who's doing something epochal, colossal, so we're showing some kind of excessive concern for the budget, etc. I'm sure the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance will find a way to pay off these funds, it's not mine to say where there are possible sources of all this, but I'm sure none of these salaries will be late and will be, uh, given on time at this very amount that we're going to adopt today. I'm telling all the officers and inspectors that we don't have any gratitude for this, that this is a correction of a mistake from an earlier period, that we are quite ordinary people who have fallen to solve this mistake and that we don't deserve any special or commendation or reward, we just did our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3369	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. There's no further interest in the debate, so I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point, and now we're going to plead. 16 So we are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Salary and Compensation in BiH institutions in a second reading. Of the 14 people present, all 14 were in favour, there were no votes against, there were no votes abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted in a second reading. We're moving on to the point of today's three agenda, that's Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act (second reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17 of 25.04.2017. So I said this is a second reading, and in the second reading there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the Bill's Proposal, and you have also received a report on the public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Completion of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act held on 05.09.2017. The Constitutional Commission accepted the text of the bill along with an amendment and proposed that it be adopted to the House. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Nations, if he appreciates his needs. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3371	I thank the chairman. I will take advantage of the possibility on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, given that it is a somewhat specific situation, as a public debate is being held on this law, which is not a very common practice in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. After the proposal, the law brought great public attention, the House of Representatives was adopted in the first and second readings, and there were many shared opinions in the public. On the one hand, NGOs that care about the protection and welfare of animals and, on the other hand, the operators involved in this type of activity and whose existence of a significant number of members or their families together depends on this activity. The question is whether it will extend or not to extend the possibility of breeding fur for fur, because it is known that we have established that since '18. the year is prohibited, and then there has been an intervention with this Bill proposal in the sense that the deadline has been extended and that the situation has been followed by, appropriate situation in the region, the countries of Europe, etc. As I said, the public's attention and public interest were important, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is also a signator of the so-called. The Archduke Conventions, which among their provisions, states, among other things, that the state is obliged to raise issues that have significant, very clearly prescribed, quantitative impact on the ecologicality of such laws and to allow public debates to be made. It could be discussed whether this Law, in view of the volume of 17 fur production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is to this extent influenced by the ecologicality in which the Archusa Convention for Conditions requires mandatory and discussion, did not deal with something thorough, we chose, nevertheless, by climbing over it, to conduct a public debate. The public debate was held according to the highest democratic standards, there were over a hundred students, representatives of NGOs, entities dealing with this type of activity and all had the opportunity to take their views out in a very correct, calm atmosphere as they did. We have made up this Report on Public Discussion, a stenogram of all discussions, all the attached texts, interesting, relevant records, we have published this on the web portal of the Parliamentary Assembly, delivered to all interested entities. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission organised a public debate, enabled all interested to state their position, and united the views in the Report and made the report available to all decision-makers. Of course, decision-makers, with all this in mind, therefore delegates, will make their decision, and members of the Constitutional Commission and delegates in the House of Peoples will make their decision based on all this. Finally, they have the constitutional right and the authority to decide on the basis of all the facts available and of course their understanding of this issue. So all present-day delegates also received a stenogram of public debate, a report on public debate, have all the relevant elements and will make that decision. This is, I stressed this because even after a public debate, a number of NGOs came forward with a request to inform about the reasons why the members of the Commission, delegates, accepted or did not accept the Law. I don't think there are any conventions. We delivered to the delegates everything that mattered, and neither I nor anyone can, uh, go from one delegate to another and ask him why you voted for or why you voted against, and then let us inform NGOs. So, please keep in mind, we have provided the best standards, we have provided principles, we have delivered to everyone what is important, but still delegates and MPs ultimately decide, because they are decision-makers when it comes to laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3372	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and appreciates his need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. Thank you. I am opening a debate on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We will now declare ourselves, therefore we are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Wellbeing of animals in the second reading. Of the 14-8 present were for, 3 were against, 3 were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, 1 against and no one was abstentioned. From Republika Srpska – it was not for, we have 2 against and we have 3 abstentions. So there's a general majority, there's no entity majority. 18 [[/Collegiate consent.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3376	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3377	Just like in the report. Thank you. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present and if he appreciates that he has needs. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone come forward for a word on this agenda point? I don't see any reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administration in Second Reading. You can plead. Of the 14-11 present, there were three abstentions against none. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, no one against and 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on second reading management has been adopted. 19 We move to point five, that's it, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-1610/17 of 04.07.2017, shortened procedure This is the first reading of the bill, so Article 103. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and to follow the text of the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration, which was published before the entry into force of the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. At the 52nd session, held on 20 September 2017, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for Law in a second reading. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission. Mr. Genjac, is there any need for this agenda item?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3379	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3380	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3381	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3382	Just like in the report. Okay, thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he appreciates the need and if he is present. I can't see the call. So, I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration in the first reading. Of the 14-13 were present, without votes against and with one abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, no one against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. 20 We move to point six, that's it, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Road Safety at Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-1374/17 since 28.07.2017. This is the first reading of the bill. First, there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The legislative and legal sector has established that the draft law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. Dom's Rules of Procedure, with its structure, shape and style, is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the bill was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships supported the principles of the bill. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3384	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3385	There's no need. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present and appreciates his need. There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading. Of the 14 people present, all 14 were for, without votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, therefore, without votes against and abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 votes for, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the proposal for a law on amendments to the Road Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted in the first reading. 21 We move to the point of the seven agenda today, that is, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Safety in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-687/17 of 28.07.2017, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH So this is the first reading of the bill. First, there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received opinions from the legislative sector, the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples and the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law does not comply with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, with its structure, shape and style, is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and did not comply with Bosnia and Herzegovina's legal system. The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3387	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3388	Just like in the report. Thank you. I give the word to Mr Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3389	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3390	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3391	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3392	Oh, yeah. Then I apologize for getting your name in this reminder. Mr. Kadić, do you have any?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3393	No microphone 22
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3394	Just like in the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if he is present and appreciates his need. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Oh, yeah, I'm sorry, Mr. Rodić before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3396	No microphone turned on I've got one intervention
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3397	It's a microphone, Mr. Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3398	You're the only one who can turn yourself in and he can.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3399	intervention before speaking to the Proposer. Since we had two Laws amending and supplementing the Transport Safety Act on the last Constitutional Legal Commission, the House had just declared itself on one, and in the second law, when I voted, and separately on the constitutional basis and principles, I was in a certain kind of delusion that I later came to some knowledge of the complete text of the Law. In view of the fact that there was a certain interpretation that the consolidated text of the Law was adopted and that such a text could not have been such an intervention, I voted for it not to be, there is no compliance with the legal principles. But here, let me just say for a second what this is about. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, was adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in early 2017 and was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 817. One of the provisions of the Law, more specifically Article 72, provides for an obligation for the Constitutional Commission to prepare both homes for the consolidated text of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As at that time, given that there were certain interpretations that this consolidated text had been adopted, however, by subsequent analysis I found that this had not occurred, so that I would change my mind now at this session of the House, since I have established these facts and will vote against the Constitutional Commission Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3400	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3401	I thank the chairman. Honorable delegates, members of the Council of Ministers. Very briefly, and thank you, first of all, to Mr Rodić for this clarification. I was also sure at the Commission's session that there was simply a confusion over these some civil issues, which Mr Rodić has now explained more or less, so there is no need for me to enter them at all. So here it's being set, this law just follows up to correct an anomaly that should never have been found in our law, which is that the current version of the Traffic Safety Act prescribes that vehicles under escorts, so under rotations, have priority over ambulances and fire trucks, and should be exactly the opposite. And, here, in addition to this, the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration says that this bill, I quote - in accordance with the practices of the Member States of the European Union, defines the rule of priority, i.e. the Emergency Vehicles and Fire Vehicles Championships, in relation to all other vehicles in traffic. So that's the essence of the law. And I'm saying, I'm just going to look around, there have been some remarks publicly that it never happened, uh, that a vehicle accompanied by a withdraws the right of the ambulance or a fire vehicle, but I've also seen statements from the ambulance driver that say it happens to them all the time, or regularly. I therefore call on you, and on the basis of what the distinguished delegate Rodić pointed out, to vote against the negative report of the Constitutional Commission, so that we can get this back before the Constitutional Commission and I hope that this time we can get a positive opinion. So, please vote against a negative report from the Constitutional Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3402	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. Now I'm opening a debate. Is there any interest in the debate over this agenda item? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We now need to declare the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Of the 14 present – for it was 2, versus 12, no one was abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 2 for, 7 against, without abstentions. From Republika Srpska -- no one was in favour, 5 were against, no abstentions. There is, therefore, a general majority, just a little bit, not a general majority. Therefore, in the absence of a general majority, in accordance with Article 104(3), if the House does not accept the opinion of the committee referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, the House shall request that the committees draw up a new opinion, taking into account the debate held at the House of Peoples meeting and within the time limit set by the House. Now, I think it's appropriate until the next session, if that's what you're agreeing to. I don't think there's a need to make a statement about that because it's simply a business provision. Thank you. 24 Now we're going to move to point 8, but I'd like to pray for services, or at point 9, I think we should supplement it, uh, with certain materials, so I think it should also be shared so that the envoys can get to know each other by the end of, uh, with point 9. But now we're going to point eight, that's Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Law No: 02-02-1-1378/17 of 28.07.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the People of the Paraliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. First, there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received opinions from the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative sector has established that the proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but did not accept the principles of the bill. I give my word to Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples. There's no need, like in the report. Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he has a need. Here you go. Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3404	Dear chairman, members of the College, delegates and delegates, dear guests. So, the draft law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which received support at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, had one course of procedure that I would like to share with you. In fact, before I referred to the amendment and the addition of the Law to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH before the procedure, I also addressed the Ombudsman's institution for human rights which gave their opinion on this Law. So, in accordance with human rights and the principle of justice, the Ombudsmans for human rights have assessed that the decision taken by the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is that by managing the cabinet, or those in the leadership positions, have a higher number of vacation days than officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in accordance with human rights, since we are all working 8 hours, the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution has estimated that we should approach the amendments and additions of this Law, so that we are all even when we talk about the number of working days, or the annual absence. And accordingly, I have approached these changes and also received from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Research Sector, which, thanks to this route, I have received an analysis, a complementary analysis of how it was regulated in the countries of the region and in the European Union, which are standards. So in the countries of the region, if we take the Republic of Serbia, Croatia, but also EU standards, the minimum number of vacation days is 20. Therefore, this 25 proposal for amending and supplementing the Law is also in line with these principles, and in its articles, it proposes that the minimum number of vacations be equal to the starting base, which is 20 days, and not more than 30 days. Since I was prevented from attending the Constitutional Commission session and giving such an explanation, I hope that delegates and delegates today will support this amendment and the addition of the Law, give their support and that the Law will see the brightness of the day, because people working in institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina have also addressed me as their proposings, believing that they are in an unequal position if we talk about the executive staff and persons in lower ranking positions. And I believe that this should be supported in accordance with human rights, the BiH Constitution and all the conventions we have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3405	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone getting word on this agenda point? I don't see any interest in the debate, so I'm closing the debate. We will now declare the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Of the 14 - 6 present were for, against was 7.1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska -- there were no votes for, 5 against and 1 abstention. So we don't have a general majority. I find that the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples has not been adopted. That's again this situation we had at the previous agenda point. Therefore, we now consume Article 104(3) – if the House does not accept the opinion of the committee referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, the House shall request that the Commission draw up a new opinion, taking into account the debate held at the House session and within the time limit set by the House. Well, I suggest that it also be until the next session. This is not to be stated, and now we can, therefore, move to the next item of the agenda. Moving to point nine, that's it, Ad. Nine. Information on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Envoy Ljilja Zovko Information on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives has been received in these materials. Here, I give the word to Mrs. Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3407	Thank you very much. 26 I just want to correct the president, on behalf of the Croatian House Club, all the colleagues have signed the above-mentioned Declaration, so we have shared, uh, with all the envoys and I ask you to support this Declaration. Nothing at all, it just confirms the facts of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3408	Thank you, thank you, I've said the proposed agenda point from you, and you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3409	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3410	As far as the Declaration is concerned, that's right, it is. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Anyone want to discuss it? Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3411	I thank the chairman. Today, in the light of the agenda point, we have received suggestions from the agenda point that the predstavnički of dom acted against the Constitution, against the Rules of Procedure, etc. etc. When looking at the text of the Declaration and its version published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", the House of Representatives called for Article IV, so item 4(e) of the Constitution of BiH and Article 165(2) point (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So it is very inappropriate, and I would say, unusually, that we are now talking about another home's Rules of Procedure, speaking of what the Rules of Procedure established that this second home is working and that we are talking about constitutional powers of another home. Article IV point 4(e) really speaks of the Parliamentary Assembly and the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly and is spoken in that position about the powers required for the Parliamentary Assembly and other powers that the Parliamentary Assembly has to fulfil its, its role and its commitment. And then to the Rules of Procedures, which we have adopted in both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, we have just adopted, in our offices and in each other's homes, and that possibility that the homes should carry out the role they need to perform on their own. Therefore, not only the Parliamentary Assembly as the only option, but in the powers of the Constitution where it is spoken, the Parliamentary Assembly is mentioned, and then the rules of procedure discuss the possibility that certain issues and homes can be resolved. In Article 165(2), point (a) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives is replaced by Article 153. At home of the people, the Rules of Procedure speaks – home can make declarations, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts. The home can make declarations, decisions, recommendations, so home, House of Representatives, home of the people. And the acts are defined as prescribed and, of course, as regards the voting on those acts, including the declaration, is decided in the manner prescribed, what dom did in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the House of Representatives voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure proposed, etc. Of course, the acts adopted at one home, which are left as an opportunity to adopt in one home, are acts of the home, and they are published in the "Official Messenger", and I do not see really anywhere the procedural 27 issues that would be raised as a problem and constitutional jurisdiction and business provision, everything is clear and I would say precisely. Since, in the meantime, this, uh, we got a motion for a resolution, I'm sorry, now that it's arrived later, we're going to need to look back at the resolution. So, the text of the resolution, as I said at the announcement point, states that the BiH Constitution has been violated, etc. etc. So the predstavnički of Representatives broke the Constitution, broke its Rules of Procedure, and now the House of Peoples needs to consider it. Be careful, consider that this is a very, very, very awkward precedent for some future events and some future situations, whether this gives us the right to the House of Representatives to judge and judge the actions and acts of the House of Nations, that is one thing. And another thing, when that's even appropriate. I will refer to certain allegations in the proposed text, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly reminds me that the acts of one of the Houses of Parliament represent acts of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and as such cannot produce any legal effect in international relations or bilateral relations. It is not said anywhere in the Declaration that this is an act of the Parliamentary Assembly, but is said in a publication in the "Official Messenger" in the heading of the House of Representatives and what is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. So it is further said that, therefore, it is called, this, the House of Nations, calls on the House of Representatives, so the House of Peoples, one home calls on another home, that when the declaration is adopted and other acts must respect the Constitution. So, as Dom, we now tell the second House where the Declaration was voted by the majority of votes, sorry you've all made a mistake, most of you, you've broken, you don't respect the Constitution. Please keep that in mind. Point further, it says – The House of People informs the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the EU that the Declaration adopted at the 51st session of the House of Representatives does not constitute an official act of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This Declaration is an official act of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, as prescribed in the Rules of Procedure and published in "The Official Messenger". And as I said, the Declaration itself should be considered and viewed above all in the context of the declaration and the protection of the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of the protection of sovereignty or violation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty. The House of Representatives evaluated, assessed and entered into the text of the Declaration what it considered to be important and supported by most of the House of Representatives. I ask you to bear in mind this moment and this situation that a home in terms of the assessment of constitutionality, the assessment of the respect of the Rules of Procedure puts above another home and that you bear in mind that it stated in the proposal of this Declaration do not correspond at all to the procedural state, nor to the state of business, nor to the constitutional state, and we will be put in a very unpleasant position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3412	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Karamatić has signed up to intervene, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3413	How I won't intervene if someone has to protect the Constitution of this troubled country, I'll have no one else. So, a respected colleague of Genjac's has something to say, the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives has launched an attack on Bosnia and Herzegovina's statehood and tried to bring down the Constitution. So, the Constitution of a country, so it's both Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's not candy to take what you like 28 and not take what you don't like. Dear fellow Genjac tells some articles here. I will only return to the very beginning, so the House of Representatives is called on on the basis of Article IV/4a of the Constitution of BiH, Article IV/4 begins, the powers – the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for point e) of the other things, etc. Now let's get back to the beginning, so IV means not IV/4, you have to read it all. So Article IV Parliamentary Assembly - Parliamentary Assembly has two homes, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Where did the House of People disappear in the House of Representatives? So, if you are referring to the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly in this case, it is both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, and if you are referring to the House of Representatives, that's okay. However, you have called here for the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly, it is a direct attack on the constitutionality of these peoples, a re-infringing of the Constitution, an attack on the Dayton Agreement, an attack on all living things, and this is an attempt to bring down the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I will make every effort to preserve our one and only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3414	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Ognjen Tadić, First Deputy. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought Mr. Karamatić would say in that inspiring issue that it's easier to get a majority in this country than a driver's license, because for a driver's license, you need something, most of it how to put it together. So you know how, the predstavnički of Representatives has really done something here that he hasn't done in consultation with anyone from the House of Peoples. This can be interpreted as an expression of the need to put such a majority into function of one or two policies. I do not see that the solution is that the same happens in the House of Peoples and now that they are using some kind of friendly majority in a way that is not in the taste of the House of Peoples, that then the House of Nations would use a friendly majority in a way that is not of the taste of the House of Representatives, which benefits only those who insist on the situation of unresolved borders and unilateral solutions when it comes to relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, if there's any intention of defending Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it's to be defended by those who are potentially jeopardizing it, I'm talking about this context in which we opened this topic. Well, now what's a threat? For a part of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the threat of Bosnia and Herzegovina is that the Republic of Croatia will create a bridge that prevents free navigation or how all of this can be explained in a very professional language concerning maritime law. For part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the threat is that despite the quite logical reasons concerning the demarcation of the Union, the construction of some border crossings etc. which is the interest of a large part of Bosnia and Herzegovina called Republika Srpska and one of the constituent people at the very least called Serbian, so this is not being resolved. Now you see if we represent the interests of this side, if we're one side, then we first need to see what our common interests can be. And here is an open question for the writers of the Declaration in the House of Representatives whether they asked representatives of the Croatian people if they had any interest in all of this and whether this interest could stand in this Declaration, as did the interests of Republika Srpska from point 8 to point 11. So, don't expect anyone sane, who comes here from Republika Srpska, to support the abolition or challenge of the Declaration adopted by the House of Representatives, which calls for the construction of the bridge for the international crossing of Sava in Gradišca, to the recognition of the Union railway project, on the construction of the Adriatic-Ionian road, which opens 29 spaces for huge projects in Trebinje, this one, and that southeast part of Republika Srpska and for the resolution of the border to the Union, this one, when it comes to eleven, this one, this one, where the border crosses the Una, that it should not be a natural way to make sense, so who in Republika Srpska would really expect someone from Republika Srpska to vote against this. But we have no problem with the fact that if there is an interest in the constitutive Croatian people and its relevant political representatives, that there is something else that makes up this Declaration, to get into this Declaration, it is a sin that we have been making up the Declaration in the House of Representatives for not asking representatives of the constituent Croatian people if you have anything to get into this Declaration, so that it is a common position in the negotiations with Croatia when this vital issue is resolved around the bridge. So, I don't understand how no one here recognized the idea, not that perhaps, as you might say, ultimately contests this story about the bridge, but that it is put into function to solve these issues that can be common to everyone. Is there anything that Croatian people are interested in here that the Republic of Croatia should do for its benefit in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that can be fulfilled this time? I suppose there are a lot of things, I'm not legitimate to say which are, but I think there are a lot of questions that the Republic of Croatia could do to the constitutive Croatian people in favour of its territories, etc. etc. Which I would very much like as representatives of the Serbian people to agree and wish for, and I don't think, uh, or representatives of the Bosniak people, if they are reasonable, and they are most reasonable, this one, would do anything against it. So I see it as that situation, I don't see this as a two goat situation on a thick or if someone wants to do it like that, right now, they know they don't have my support for it. So that's one, one, uh, one segment related to this topic. The second segment that's about this topic, that's the one that they're in, that I'm actually going through with this Declaration. If we are to go honestly and by letter as they say, this Declaration today could not go along with this item of the agenda because this item of the agenda is called – Information on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. Where did the Declaration come from? Well then we should write – Proposal for a declaration, it's just called here Declaration, but I suppose it should have had a more specific name. So, here's what if we're gonna pop into a thread any one of us can make him, that's the least of the problems. How do you get out of all this? I think the best thing for us to do right now is to make it, I suggest, the conclusion and to end today's debate, if you agree with that, of course, is no one, _____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Right now, it's a matter of voting, not of throwing away, is it, of voting and not of throwing away, so that's a matter of saying, I'm suggesting if you agree. So, to task the College of the House of Peoples to immediately organise a meeting with the College of Representatives in order to find a common solution for getting out of this situation where there was obviously an invitation to a certain member of the Constitution of BiH, I assume that many, and I can also join it as an attempt to present this as an official state position, and the position is actually a representative home. So, this whole story is being held in a constructive phase, we are not moving into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly a new crisis, because we have certainly many, so we have too many, we are not going to solve for this mandate or the one we have now, let alone another. So, in doing so, space is given to correct the behavior of the House of Representatives in this sense in which it was done. So that's my suggestion, is 30 he's constructive, is he denying someone for discussion, is there anything else I'm not getting into, can it be transformed like that, and when all the discussion is over, then it's a conclusion before we even get to the point, and we don't have the right to make a statement. We can't rightly wish we didn't want to put out of force acts of the House of Representatives, we don't have the right, I mean, tomorrow we'd find ourselves in a situation where they're putting off some of our acts, why not even agree. In a situation where you have two different majority, it's best known by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, one of you have a majority in the House of Representatives, the other in the Council of Ministers, this House of People, I guess that's how it's said that the other is, we'll see, well, then it's practically best that we don't meet, then we as a College have no obligation or need to call these sessions anymore, because just for the sake of the session's talks, this is not welcome. So, this is my proposal, I pray that, here I am giving up, so not to interrupt the debate, forgive me, perhaps in this way I have denied someone the right to say today what he was up to, but when this is over to conclude – that the College of the House of Peoples, therefore, immediately invites the College of the House of Representatives to the session to find a common way out of this situation which obviously needs to be clarified and to propose decisions that go to both homes in the form of conclusions that clarify this issue in a constitutional way that does not offend dignity, nor the jurisdiction of any of the two homes. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3417	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Martin Raguž, I'm sorry if Karamatić called, Mr. Karamatić answered. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3418	Here is a very short one, so I absolutely agree with everything Mr Tadić said in the first 6 minutes and 48 seconds of his address, but it is a pity that this address was not at the ZAVNOBiH meeting or possibly in the Parliamentary Assembly in the House of Representatives when they brought this Declaration, that is how this country should function. Here is the thing that one home is uglyly trying to abuse the name of the Parliamentary Assembly and thereby harshly violates the Constitution. So here is an attempt to abuse institutions in the interest of one policy, not to say one people, meaning one policy supported by another policy with certain concessions. But this thing is that it violates the BiH Constitution and ultimately that it is aimed against at least one constituent nation, it cannot be decided by the College, with all due respect, but rather by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3419	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Raguž, here you go, Martine.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3420	Thank you, Mr. President. So this is, it's hard to use terms, it's hard, it's one of the historic sessions of this House of Peoples, it's my position now I'm speaking my position, because it doesn't make the House of 31 peoples precedent, it's made a precedent at the House of Representatives, and without the corresponding reaction of the competent institutions. So it's precedent that one home took jurisdiction by the Constitution determined by the Constitution, so through point 4. - Powers, that the Parliamentary Assembly is competent for, not the House of Representatives and hence, ladies and gentlemen all begins. If the People's House's reaction to this precedent were to fail, I would choose my words carefully, not to speak any hard words today, it is not the time of it, so we would automatically derivate our constitutionally prescribed role that we are an equal home within the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and turn this Parliament from a two-cameral to a one-home, in a political sense I am speaking. So why are there two homes and why are they established in Dayton? The House of Representatives, we know, is chosen as a single vote, and that is fine, there is an articulation of the civil principle and decisions are prescribed as being made within the House of Representatives. And as an equal home, the House of Peoples has been established, given the character of this state, where his envoys are elected in another way than the Representative. When that balance breaks, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional order collapses, whatever anyone thinks. So, I don't want to talk at all here, Ognjena, about the Peljesk Bridge, and not at all, I expected you not to talk about two goats and not to call for an end to the debate, but to just discuss this dimension of the capacity of homes, their competences and the possibility that she, on any side, mine or anyone else, is being questioned as she is. So the minimum we need to do is, therefore, to say our position on this precedent, I am not calling any political here, it is all legitimate and that the House of Representatives is articulating certain positions and everything, but what has been happening lately means speaking on behalf of the institutions and from the representatives of the executive and legislative authorities, the letters to the most important institutions are being duplicated. So, a defacto from those who should protect integrity and build the credibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that if they represent these institutions then they should respect their internal character and decision-making method and then represent the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina through them and that we are all defending it, we defend the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I think this is in the function of protection against future precedents, if we are responsible, this is not about the content of the Declaration but about its constitutional capacity, or the lack of constitutional capacity, that it be seen as an act of the Parliamentary Assembly calling for Article IV where the Constitution gives these powers to the Parliamentary Assembly, and the Parliamentary Assembly is neither the House of Peoples itself nor the House of Representatives, only in balance and together and in the same text as prescribed. And you know, here's what I'm going to end up with, so I'm going to call all of us, so, not to fall into the agenda here, it's not about this party or her, or this option, it's only about whether anyone can be invited here... to what's integrally and constitutionally prescribed. So this is about, therefore, that while the Constitution is like this, and many of us are not satisfied with this Constitution and we have publicly expressed it and we are fighting each other in our own way, this way, we need to respect it, and the House of Peoples, and that I will end it, is established in the Peace Agreement and through this Constitution just to be a correction of such attempts until things are brought into one functional and just relationship in a way that will be acceptable to everyone in this country. So, I don't think we should argue here on a daily basis, or supplement the content of any declaration, but protect institutions, their credibility and manner of communication on behalf of these institutions with the European Commission, our neighbours and thus strengthen Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity. Only by doing so will we have a chance, if this does not continue, I would say, a particular story on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina and will prove who is greater, who is smaller, who is exclusive who is not, who is fundamental, who is not, all the peoples and citizens here have the right to this country and of course to make decisions on behalf of that country and on behalf of them are made in accordance with the Constitution which is, which is valid. And here I think we need to discuss this, 32 I'm not running a conclusion debate, Ognjena, that it is... and I really think it's fair that everyone has the opportunity to speak their mind about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3421	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Ambassador Zdenka Džambas, here you are, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3422	I have a feeling that some colleagues haven't even read the Declaration at all, as I had the feeling that neither was the Law that we passed, the electoral one read, so the story is being told. So in what we've written and signed here, first let's start at all what the declaration means, that word itself. The thing that angered us is that a Declaration was passed at the House of Representatives which turned out to be a commanding presidency, a commanding and a Council of Ministers, that something must be done. Declarations are being warned, resolutions are something else, and we are here in Bosnia and Herzegovina right here in this House of Representatives ready, when, for example, the EU Parliament adopts a resolution, brings a declaration, we sit right here, I mean the House of Representatives, and we even start writing declarations against EU declarations. I mean, we keep writing, this House of Representatives writes those declarations. I'm just asking, counterpart Tadić said what he said, but he is protected as a people and in the House of Representatives, Srbin are protected in the House of Representatives, Srbin from Republika Srpska, because there is again that vote and they are truly protected that no ordinary declaration can be brought against the Serb people from Republika Srpska. But now I ask where I am, how is the Hrvat protected in the House of Representatives? There is no way, there is no way, because there will always be a majority of the Federation for one, and the Serb people from Republika Srpska are protected. What bothers me as envoys are those letters, so before and before the declaration was adopted, the letter had already gone signed, my distinguished colleague, Softić, signed by Mr Džaferović and Mr Softić, had already gone to the outside before the declaration was passed. Let's also understand that it went out front, from the chairman, or member of the College of the House of Representatives, but how come the memorandum, the seal, what's up, home of the people when we don't have that point on the agenda, doesn't exist. That I as a people can't express myself in any way, because he left..., went in front of the House of Peoples, went away a letter. If a colleague sent such a letter from the College, I now ask – how about I have a chance to say something? So I don't have it in the House of Peoples either, I'll never have the chance as a people, you have to understand from the order of Bošnjak, so I'm sure they have a majority in the House of Representatives, because voting is one vote, in the order of Srbin protected safely by the people of Republika Srpska, will not happen because we have such a vote, where we are. At the House of Representatives came the material called, I follow this House of Representatives and often turns into something I don't know, but I don't want to judge, the information about this Pelješa Bridge and the bridge in Svilaj, but we don't have that. So, they've knocked it down there, they've knocked down excises, they've brought down everything that's for the good of an ordinary man they've been fighting for there, and they've missed us here, here, before, whether they're going to be, watch out for the home of a nation, I need to discuss today whether the basis for the annual vacation will be 18 or 20 days, it comes to us, and whether the ambulance will miss it or not, it comes here, and all the real questions go down on the Representative so we don't have it. I don't have that report on the Peljeski bridge and the bridge in Svilaj, I don't, because it obviously failed there, because no one even spoke about him at that 33 session of the House of Representatives, only the subject was the Declaration. What happens tomorrow, we can't do anything again. So if they won't come here to the House of Peoples, what will happen now, they can't join the Srbin and Bošnjak, they can always -- but with whom can I join? No one. So, we don't let that, because of this Declaration, she's just writing as a declaration, as the term warns that it can't be said that it's a Parliamentary Assembly, but that without the House of Nations, it can't, it says in the Declaration, this one of ours, can again be a name or a term different. The declaration only warns, so there is nothing to do with some people, but don't avoid the House of Peoples, we won't be able to do that, because this is the only protection mechanism that the Hrvat have, everyone else has a protective mechanism, only the Hrvat don't have if the House of Peoples is excluded. Therefore, it will be dangerous if such a seal is worn and without the knowledge of this House if any letters are signed, who knows what is sent without us even knowing about the international community.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3423	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Now I expect you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3424	If you insist, dear colleague, Mr. Čolak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3425	Thank you. Dear envoys, envoys, esteemed guests, I will try to be very brief and brief. So why the Declaration? We simply as the House of Nations, in my deep conviction, must say something about this topic, not about content, therefore, not a single word, we do not want to refer to the content in the Declaration which, here – infomacija on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. But indeed, neither can the House of Peoples, nor can the House of Representatives draw constitutional provisions that mean both homes, and that is exactly what the House of Representatives did, it called for a constitutional provision that rules out the authority of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If that Declaration had been delivered to the House of Peoples, okay, that would be fine, but we are witnesses and indeed, without the intention of politicizing, that in fact individuals' views are very often in public promotion they want to be portrayed as the views of the institution. I think that we must all be responsible and that we must respect the BiH Constitution. If I were to talk about the BiH Constitution, believe me, a sea of disadvantages, but simply as a legalist, I don't think I'm thinking of violating the constitutional provisions and we can't do that. So why the Declaration and why can't it be on the agenda? It can be quite possible, because it is our Rules of Procedure that the daklaracija is expressing its opinion on some of the important issues that Dom has been discussing. So we're discussing another Declaration, which we offered at the beginning to make a statement about. What exactly is this about? When it comes to the Rules of Procedure, of course, every home has the right to use its Rules of Procedure and the truth is that the House of Representatives, as we have said in the first sentence, has the right to bring declarations, and no one can dispute it, but one and the other homes in their offices mean what the declaration is by its essence. So if you read the content of the Decaration adopted on 7 and 13. In the 09th year, at the House of Representatives, you will see that this certainly does not reflect what is written in the offices of one and the other home, therefore, somehow an opinion that should be a principle of opinion on some very important issues. So we've chosen hard, I'd say, words about how to actually react and how this House should react, 34 not in any way to read lessons to another home, but I think we have the right, like the dom, to warn the Constitution which is still the supreme law in this country. If we keep this up, so I don't think we're going to get anywhere, and we don't have to do it, so everything we've said in these few provisions of this Declaration, I'd like someone to tell me what's not standing. Nor can the House act produce any legal effect, regardless of what we are the House of Peoples, unless it is an act of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as well as this other home. So all we're proposing is that we simply, as a House, get to the bottom of these things that are very important and come back, in fact, into constitutional and legal frameworks. In very chosen words, we said that, believe me, in this Declaration, so I insisted, here, that it be divided just before this item of the agenda comes to meet the content. Not one part of the Declaration, therefore, does not touch the content and I think, as responsible envoys of this House, the least we can do after we have made a statement about this Information is that we need to make a statement about the Declaration and that we need to accept it. Of course, what Tadić suggested, that we can and should discuss at the joint colleges, but with all due respect, the Joint College cannot resolve the issue of one home, so either at home or at home. The home decides, so it is home that decides on a particular, particular problem from its jurisdiction. Here, I don't want to take up your time, I simply invite you to make a statement after the debate is over about this Information and, of course, about the proposed Declaration and I suggest that you support it, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3426	A colleague, Ognjen Tadić, has a wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3428	Thank you, Mr. Čolak. There is an impression that the whole theme is bringing us back to some fundamental issues about the protection of the interests of the people of the constituents, etc., which is never burned, but never leads to a solution that is different from the Dayton Peace Agreement. So, we can always discuss it with ourselves, and practically all of us come to the same conclusion together, that we're unhappy, but that's how it is. There is a situation here where the interest of the Croatian people is and how it can be protected. So, this Declaration that someone adopted, for some reason in the House of Representatives, should have been put here to vote, each of you who suggested this item of the agenda, I expected to be honest. So, when you proposed this item of the agenda, the Information on the Declaration, it should also be suggested that the House of Peoples now be made aware of this Declaration adopted by the House of Representatives and that if it does not get most of it, it is protected from the interest of the Croatian people without talking about further constitutional mechanisms that allow it. So, it's not always the same shirt for the same situation, there's a way here if you want to protect the interest of the Croatian people how to do so lies of artis, respect and Dejton, respect and Rules of Procedure. The Declaration of the House of Representatives is proposed, we declare ourselves, we do not stand for it and it does not apply because it is not an act of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And that's kind of challenging their right to plead, but a balanced violation of 35 to what they did, and acceptable from a political point of view and acceptable from the point of view of Dayton standards. However, if we take the right to lift an act, we are practically determining that it is not valid, that is another problem, because you are forcing me to be, not far away, but I am putting myself into a situation that and if you agree with that view that the predstavnički of Representatives has done something wrong, so how can I vote against it saying that the border should go along the Una River, so who do I represent? Do I represent the Republic of Serbia or represent someone else? How am I supposed to vote against solving the bridge issue on Savi, how am I supposed to vote against it, uh, that this train traffic, etc. And I'm asking you to put it out of force? It is, then, to the harm of my people, to the harm of the Republika Srpska. So we can't solve the problem by putting each other in a situation where, for God's sakes, we're breaking our own interests and our own people's interests, there's no need for that. Here, I suggest you, withdraw this Declaration, you have the right to do that, that's the least of the problems, suggest that this Declaration be put on a statement brought by the House of Representatives, that we make a statement about it, that's a different story, and let's see which part is not right and why. This is how we have a conversation about something we're not in charge of, if there's a conflict between institutions, the issue of institutions, then we know who's going to solve it, that's the court's solution. Mr Bariša Čolak, as a member of the College, Mrs Bojana Krišto, as a member of the College, has the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court of BiH, means all of this is protected. What do you want? Just please, let's try to get out of this, the way it's happening now, we're just sinking deeper, the deeper problem arises, and that's the Council of Ministers, and here I'm finishing up, and I'm sorry about this violation of the time limits, so, in doing so, the Council of Ministers, they just don't know what to do later, because this majority here isn't the majority that exists in the House of Representatives. Even on this issue is the majority that exists here is completely different from the one that is in the House of Representatives, because it is narrowing down again to several MPs, so it is a disaster. Now, if the goal was a disaster, congratulations, those who did it were successful. The chairman of the Council of Ministers should, of course, say as the main man in the body how to get out of this now, even if he asks the presidents of the political parties who led to this. But don't be blackmailed now by whether we are to protect the dignity of the House of Nations by supporting or not supporting this when we all know it has nothing to do with it, or having to do with endangering Croatian interests, or having to do with endangering it. What's the Croatian interest? The interest of a Hrvat living in Neum has a registered ship there and can pass through that channel, if a bridge is built, it will not pass. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3429	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Raguž, first, then Zdenka.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3430	Now I really need to intervene on what Mr. Tadić was saying. So first, there is no mention of Croatian interest anywhere in this Declaration, nor is there any adjective related to it. So that's a concrete correction to the wrong assumption. It's about the constitutional position of the House of Peoples and... Mr Tadić, because your political representatives participated in the adoption of such a Declaration in the House of Representatives, do not now return and deliver to us as... They were, then, involved in this one precedent, why, I don't know, I don't want to get into it. ...which is precedent, they've covered themselves with the Parliamentary Assembly, and I can't. And don't bring us in any further that we want something particular here, absolutely I don't want anything partial here. I want 36 to protect the role of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in accordance with the Constitution and the dignity of this House, and that is what we are today pleading on, not on the content of the Declaration. I didn't mention a word of the Pelješki Bridge, I don't care at all, I'm interested that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina protect its interests, but that they do it transparently and in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and that's not the case, and it's being decided today, not something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3431	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mrs. džambas, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3432	...I didn't even talk about the Peljesk Bridge, but what if it keeps working like this? What if there are declarations that will go from the House of Representatives where the Croatian people are absolutely not protected and go with stamps and signatures to the European Union, to other countries, and that I have not had the opportunity to say anything? That's what we were talking about, not the Peles Bridge. So, I'm talking about the principles in this Declaration, there's nothing in it that's mentioned, just on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there must be opinions on both sides of the House. We didn't say anything else, we don't mention the contents of the Declaration at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3433	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. We have a debate now, Mr. Sredoje Nović, an envoy. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3434	Perhaps this is one of the largest divisions in parliament in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the question is really now what is Bosnia and Herzegovina? If in one home we bring one declaration, in another home we bring another declaration, this one is already published, this one should probably be published, I am keenly interested in how the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers, or the Ministry, will interpret it outside. Who is behind this, is it Bosnia and Herzegovina or half Bosnia and Herzegovina, since they are not both at home, let me put the expression half of Bosnia and Herzegovina in some translated sense, have not spoken of such important things? It's just amazing, it's amazing to me that there's no way to think about a document like this too much in one home or another, no matter what I think today, it's just amazing. Whether it is deliberate or not, leaving Bosnia and Herzegovina of this Declaration, which has already been published, is indisputable in Brussels and in all the capitals of Europe will be a negative attitude and a minus a great Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is all of us, minus great. Which of the ministers can now interpret this Declaration when it goes outside? We can interpret when we leave, but we will experience someone asking us – well, did the entire Bureau say about it, did the Council of Ministers come forward, did the other House of Parliament say about it? Well, in the end, about such important issues, whatever you think, and the entity governments are very important, and don't forget either the Republika Srpska Assembly or the Federation Parliament, which is also, because this is a matter of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is not a question of any entity, not just 15 of us and those of us, or I don't know 40 or how many, sitting there. What are we doing? We are indeed leading further to the destruction of this land. You may or may say some of the demagogues we want to say, but far more tragically, you will have consequences, because you don't think that in the Presidency those 37 are not for this declaration will nod their heads and say, yes, that this is okay, let it go. In the Council of Ministers and in all other institutions, that's how it's going to be, because that's how we do it, we just, we just work. Whose position is this, this declaration that was adopted? The position of the House of Representatives and no one can dispute that it is legal, legitimate, their right to bring declarations, etc. We can also bring these decorations, but also this House must clearly say that the Declaration brought by the House of Representatives is not the Declaration of the House of Peoples. We haven't spoken of it, we haven't debated it, we haven't voted on it, and whatever anyone thinks, I think it's a fact. If we want to, then we have to open these questions, discuss, agree, disagree and say that's how it should go there, etc. What can the Republic of Croatia say and what can the Council of Europe say and what to say, well, Brussels, although we all thank Bog beyond our borders, there is no one here but us, what they will say is what most of this is, the country, I don't know what, how, call whatever you want. I think an extremely negative picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been sent here because of this issue, and I think this issue must be returned to the frames of the entire BiH Parliament. I think that we should think carefully about not, not putting a knife with two edges, where we could all cut ourselves, but thinking about what it is that we can adopt today, what it is that we can change, is this Declaration about which colleagues from the Croatian people sent it, is that something that needs to be corrected, that we all have the right to say whether it is this or what or maybe it is to say, that the House of Peoples did not adopt the House of Representatives under the number 01-50-1-51/17 of 13 September 2017 and that it is not the official position of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I guess we all understand that it can't, it can't just be a declaration of one home that represents the official position of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to such an important issue. And here, I'm really gonna end up with this and I think we can after the discussion, all the discussions, then I'll say more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3435	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Mrs. Zovko, here you go, Ljiljo.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3436	Thank you very much. So here, uh, Mr. Tadić just to answer, this information that I suggested, it contained information about events in the House of Representatives, and here we all discussed something, and as a result of this debate, this Declaration can be subdued. Of course, that anyone can supplement, correct, say, but I feel responsible that this Declaration does not dispute anything. There are seven items, I'll read them, who has something against can add and subtract, but in no segment we haven't touched any of our own, only our own but the attitudes of the House of Nations. 1. The home of the people of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH reminds that Article IV of the Constitution of BiH is prescribed that the Paramentary Assembly of BiH consists of two homes, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, that is, paragraph 1.; 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, without prejudice to the right of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to adopt declarations and other acts, warns that the Declaration of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH adopted at the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH held on 7 and 13 September 2017, which concerns the problem of the 38th construction of the Land-Peljesac Bridge and some other questions on the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, as well as on the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union, has no constitutional or business basis; 3. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH warns that the appeal to the provisions of Article IV, Article 4(e) of the Constitution of BiH in the adoption of the Declaration at the Parliamentary House of BiH is not in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, because Article IV of the BiH Constitution, the powers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are prescribed, not the Parliamentary House of BiH. We also stress that, in accordance with the rules of procedure of both homes, the Declaration expresses its principle of opinion, so the content of the Declaration is completely contrary to the rules of business; 4. It reminds the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that the acts of one of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes do not constitute acts of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and as such cannot produce any legal effect in international relations or in bilateral relations with other countries; 5. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH calls on the Parliamentary House of BiH to respect the BiH Constitution and the role of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses when adopting declarations and other acts; 6. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH informs the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union that the Declaration adopted at the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH does not constitute an official act of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 7. This Declaration shall enter into force on the date of its adoption and shall be published in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3437	Thank you. Mr. Genjac called for a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3438	I thank the chairman. In this second discussion, however, you need to focus on some of the accentes that are said, which I think should be either specified or explained. So it is known that the College of our homes consists of three members, from three peoples to one. It is known that there is an instrument for assessing the constitutionality of a certain act, which sets out exactly how many delegates, how many MPs and who can launch an assessment of the constitutionality of an act at the BiH Constitutional Court, including members of the College. It is also known that the House of Peoples is a correction of the House of Representatives, but in a very clearly prescribed way, in a way that delegates in the House of Peoples, three from one club, can declare destruction by the vital interest of a nation and then declare the Constitutional Court. So these are all the instruments that we have applied and that have been shown, for example, members of the Colleges of one people wrote about the Peljega Bridge, so the members of the College from another people wrote about the Peljega Bridge, etc. So, we have to agree that the House of Nations cannot be corrected by the Presbyterian House in a way that makes final decisions and final assessments. The House of People in the Declaration cannot say that the Declaration adopted, as said in paragraph 2, the House of Representatives has no constitutional or business justification. The point, the verdict, finished, was the House of Peoples' assessment and concluded that the House of Representatives acted counter-constitutionally and counter-businessally. I allow it to be possible and necessary to open the controversy of 39 experts, lawyers interpreting Article 4, paragraph 4 (e) of the Rules of Procedure, in the sense of the Parliamentary Assembly, so as this also appears in the Rules of Procedures, because it is not spoken in the Constitution of the jurisdiction of one or another home, but is generally spoken, so in the Rules of Procedures it is specified. So it's a controversy, but could this controversy be in a way that one House concludes to say another House has acted counter-constitutionally and counter-businessally? I mean, we can do what we want, but we can't do it, we can't do it, but there's a possibility that a certain number of MPs or a member of the College of Interested Groups, peoples or parties will appeal to the Constitutional Court for the constitutionality of a certain act. It's a perfectly legitimate constitutional possibility, etc. And that is what every nation has in its possession, and in the House of Representatives, and in the House of the People. It is also impossible to say in a Declaration adopted by the House or adopted by the House of Peoples that the House of People calls on Parliament's House of Representatives to respect the Constitution and the role of both homes when adopting declarations and other acts. So, the House of Peoples says to the House of Representatives, you are, I'm sorry, you do not respect, but you must respect the Constitution and that to the House of People, one home tells another people. Believe me, it's not appropriate, it's not appropriate. So it is known which instruments are the protection of the Constitution and are very clearly prescribed, they are detailed and there is a possibility, therefore, that the system is not imperfect this one and has the possibilities to do so, but these instruments should be used etc. I believe that the content of the Declaration has been taken into account, however, this cannot be evaluated by the Constitutional Court alone or by any other institution to say. He can't tell one House to another home that he's acting counter-constitutionally or that he's anti-business even. So please, I think we have this in mind and, uh, ask what one or another people can do, or a third nation, so here, today, let's say one people can get a declaration of their own free will in a way that revotes one people. Is that good? I don't think it's good, I don't think it's good, and it should always be avoided, and whenever it happened, it should be avoided, but if there are objections to the House of Representatives, to the Declaration adopted by the House of Representatives, I repeat, very clearly the procedure prescribed for the protection of constitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3439	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Now I give my word to Mr. Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3440	So, it's not that we're imposing something on the House of Representatives here, so I've come forward to correct the wrong assumption, it's that Mr. Genjac, is there any right to unconstitutionally produce perception that this is the position of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is not in accordance with the Constitution, and that's a big difference. And secondly, I'm against voting, but isn't it in the House of Representatives already done, and you don't mention that it happened there, and here you are. So, come on, give me a minute, we've been here a long, uh, some of us longer or less. I have left my life from war in Sarajevo to this day and I understand where the processes are going, unfortunately. I don't want to talk about it today, but I can't stick my head in the sand before breaking facts and constitutional categories, I really can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3441	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Mario Karamatić answered for the discussion. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3442	I do not understand what it is, why Mr Genjac is so guilty of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in his address he has pointed out several times that he is disputed that the proposal states that the Constitution must be respected. So the Constitution of this country must be respected, whether it corresponds to the SDA or not, must be respected. You mention the revote, so you've voted in the House of Representatives, how you're not ashamed to turn... upside down. We call for respect for the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina – so do you claim that the Parliamentary Assembly is only a House of Representatives? This is about foreign policy issues, under the Constitution of BiH, the Presidency is responsible for implementing foreign policy, not the House of Representatives. Well, you can't pass on your powers as you come to mind. You remember,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3443	And can you make it a little easier for Mario, please, a little bit, a little bit lower due to
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3444	He mentions, letters, he says, they send these-they, so he knows who started sending letters in Brussels, I don't know, half a year ago when a letter came from Bosnia and Herzegovina we all looked forward to something we finally agreed on. Now that they see the letter from Bosnia and Herzegovina, they cut off people's legs, and they know who's sending it, and they don't know who's sending it, and they don't know who's sending it. Is the goal of bringing down this country, the goal of destroying Bosnia and Herzegovina so that its Constitution and law are not respected, so it won't be possible without war, I fought for this country, Mr. Genjac, and it won't be possible without it. The country's constitution must be respected, everything required in this Declaration we express concern by sending letters and writers on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is not right and should stop. We are particularly concerned about the adoption of the Declaration, which is absolutely unconstitutional, called on to the wrong point and we are committed to consistently respecting the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly and what can be disputed about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3445	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Genjac, first he has a replica, and then he has a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3446	Thank you. I will try to stay within the framework of arguments and in the strength of arguments, not on the argument of force. So, the provovo who we are and who we voted on in the House of Representatives, ethnically, partyically, entityically, in what sense was the revote in the House of Representatives elected on a representative principle? So I think there's a voice structure when you look at it you're going to find very interesting facts. Second, the Declaration does not call for respect for the Constitution and legality, which I support, so any declaration that will call for the respect of the Constitution and the law. In the Declaration it is decided that the Declaration adopted by one home has no constitutional, no business justification and so, that is, it is a huge difference and I can say 41 someone can assess whether some act is not in accordance with the Constitution and whether it is agreed and has the possibility, there is a procedure, but it is not the position of one home that determines whether or not the other home has violated the ustav and the Rules of Procedure, and even the Rules of Procedure when it is interpreted as having someone at home interprets the Rules of Procedure, does not interpret the second home for the second home of the Rules of Procedure, and we claim that the gentlemen of the House of Representative has no constitutional or business basis, and that is the problem I am talking about, and I hope that we are sharing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3447	Thank you, Mr. Genjac and you signed up for the discussion or have you exhausted your discussion with this? Thank you. Now, fellow Kadić has signed up, please welcome Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3448	Well, Mr. Chairman, the chairman, listening to all this is our story, too hard. I thought when I came into this house that these people sitting here, so here I am today, that it's the best thing from their people and that they're there that everything that's hard in that country comes to this level with a lot of understanding, compromises agree, but here I am disappointed, it's not like that. The rise of voices in this House, the threat and the story of the threat of any people, so I'll tell you now, so my people are also at risk, if we're going to talk, and I don't want to talk like that, I won't talk like that, all the people and everyone in this country, whatever it is, it's not easy for them and let's do something to get out of here one picture, so here's about Mr. Nović saying something in his presentation, something that we can agree on here. Let's not be the ones who, so here's to say, for the sake of the Constitution and the rules and the rules and the rules and everything else, are going to pour oil on the fire. Because I agree with Mr. Raguž that this is about one session that should ultimately be solved here, so if no one has solved it by now, let's try to solve it here, not get out of here with even more confusion to create in this country than we are. Here I am not going to talk about that here and today we adopted a certainly agenda with some majority here, but what Tadić said, that agenda did not say that he would have the Declaration, but said that this is information about something that was going on there. But I am the advocate of giving a break maybe here and after these discussions, so let's try to sort out some common ground that will go in the direction of solving and this question that we're talking about here today. I really call on all my colleagues to keep this House's dignity here and to be each other, so I don't say at the service, but that we understand each other maybe more than in some other institutions, parliaments, I don't know either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3449	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. Let's go, please go discussion Mr. Radmanović signed up, so then Mr. Softić. Mr. Radmanović, please. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3450	If I have to repeat, it seems to me that we have one final real debate right for the House of Peoples, a parliamentary debate in which we have usually opened up some issues that are not on the agenda, but that is allowed by MPs and delegates. [[Disable microphone]] So, when you go to school you're not allowed to miss the topic, but when you're an MP you're allowed to talk about everything and what's not the point of the agenda... that and that solution and today it was completely unnecessary. But why did I say that I think that the legal, real debate for the House of Peoples is about equality, we here need to talk about equality all the time, every time we're sitting on every agenda so this doesn't happen to us. Here we are talking about the equality of two homes and we were able to hear different opinions, completely unnecessary, we got lawyers from that home here, also unnecessaryly, people know how to defend themselves and there's no need for anyone to defend them here at all. We are talking about, if you have read well, that, we have the right to be part of Parliament, that's all I'm talking about and we are part of Parliament and Parliament is not a single home, neither are we here nor are they there. They acted as if they were Parliament. Normally, this debate has caused other discussions, a sense of inequality, a need for protection, and that is what we need to talk about here. I belong to those who think they must all be equal and I am ready to protect and those who feel threatened in this House or anywhere, and I think that's how we should all behave. It's not always the case, today we all need to act like one, it wasn't an opportunity here to talk about the Pelješke bridge or the border on the river Union, we've all talked about it a lot, we know our views, if we have to repeat them, but not today because there's no debate here, and that's why it was unnecessary for someone to talk about it. I think it's time for us to lower our voice a little, even though it's normal for some delegates to raise their voice in the heat of the debate. It's time to agree on how we're going to end this part of the agenda, because we've almost all been involved in this debate. I guess we're gonna need a little break to bring things together, but if we all get out of this stronger to fight for equality and home and people and others, then we've taken a serious step, and by then we can criticise the Council of Ministers as much as you want, but they can't manage if we can't get here. And the mention of the Bureau seems totally ridiculous to me, because if the Bureau were able to take any kind of position, we wouldn't even be in this situation if we were in a representative system like this. And finally, we all have to take care of how we introduce ourselves out there, so when we don't go out there, we have to make sure that we've contributed to that bad introduction out here, whether we've made it impossible for those of us who go out there to represent us with different attitudes that we disagree with, which we disagreed with, and that should be a message to our colleagues in Representative and all the others in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's make some arrangements before it comes out in public, especially in Brussels. Unfortunately for us, they know that we are like this, they only expect us to, as many citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina expect us to step up, to be better, to agree and go out and say something to them together. I hope that even though this debate does not show that we are moving forward that we will still be able to find the right steps in a near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3451	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Another deputy, Mr. Safet Softić, has applied for the debate. Here you go, Mr. Softić. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3452	To make a little joke, given the tension, it seems to me, unwisely raised in this House, and since, as I see it, changes in the way it's being discussed in this House at all, I'm going to call on a speaker I've heard, who started his speech by saying it -- I'm going to be short because I'm limited. I don't think I'm time-limited here, and I'm not in any other sense in which it can be initiated from a prelude like this, but I don't think we're completely unnecessarily raising tension on this matter and we're totally needlessly going into certain extremes that don't bring anybody any good, and neither are we who are delegates in front of certain clubs of the people here. And what Mr. Radmanović did earlier, and that, he called for the drop of tension, he probably has more rights than we do because of his age, his experience and his position in this society, so I join what he said, but I can't sit here and keep quiet what we just heard. Namely, a colleague of Karamatić here often entertains all of us together with our guests in this House, but there are also situations when he really crosses the measure. So, today he's from the cookie delivery company around this House, certain MPs, alluding to some political connotations that should have ties with the SDA and its president, did rather cynically something that really crosses the boundaries of fine conduct, so if you want the humor that is desirable in such parliamentary benches. But before you sit in front of the cameras here to make, uh, make a play where you, Mr. Genjac, Mr. Kadić and I give some kind of a cookie here, I really think that it crosses the limits of good taste and I invite you to do it collegiately and not to joke with us in that way, because there's no reason for any kind of political struggle, political dialogue, conflict we have, therefore, this payphone, we both have the desire and the will to compete, but I think you have to take care of the scale when you do things, so if you want to make a joke. It's much less than what you just did when it comes to Mr. Genjac as president of the Bosniak Club and your tone-lifting, your threats to Mr. Genjac and the threats you've made, this, if I understand correctly, the threats to the war you've made here to all of us, which I really don't think have anything to do with it, or the need for such a kind of dialogue to be established in this House. I call you, collectively indeed, here, to try to find the strength in yourself to apologize for them here and to stop doing it. I went out for this pay phone one more time, when you called the D.A.'s office, I don't know what it was about, or the VSTV when you called the D.A.'s office a criminal organization. I think you really need to take care of where the humor stops, and where the insult begins for those you address. And as for this Declaration, I think that today we have a technical problem that Mrs. Ljilja Zovko has missed as a proposer of this agenda point. Namely, my understanding of the Rules of Procedure implies that today's chairman runs the session in accordance with the adopted agenda as adopted by this House. We in this agenda, if I have seen correctly, we have a report on a certain point of the agenda that was at the second home, at the House of Representatives, and in that sense I do not see that from that point on, Mrs Ljiljo, we can come out in the way that you suggested it, one Declaration that is included, which is called into several elements and the Constitution etc. and that we received during this debate. In fact, we from a particular debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure can come up with certain conclusions, with certain obligations, etc. But with one of the apprehensive declarations that this House is about to adopt, it's about to bring down some debates about such a conjecture point, I think we have a business problem. I know that there is a majority in this House to vote on such a declaration, I know that there is a majority for all of the issues that 44 basically brings a lot of anxiety into the public space, and we have all had more or less certain statements about this issue, but business is not the way to get to this declaration. I think that at the beginning of the session, you should have proposed this text of the Declaration at the beginning of the session, although it would be ungrateful of us to ask that we receive this text of the Declaration and that we listen to those who are discussing this matter and that we have time to read the careful text and the Declaration and possibly raise your hand for it. I'm asking you to give us, give us time to, yes, have enough time to study this and it'll be for some continuation of the session something that we'll be able to do quality, uh, quality word. Mr. Genjac, as president of the club, probably quickly grasped these few things and said which I really find completely justified and meaningful, but for some deeper analysis or for our final statement on this matter you need to give us time to prepare for this, you can't put it on the table just before the vote or before the statement. According to this, I really don't want to talk about the content itself, and I call on these business provisions that should sort of determine this whole text of discussion and ultimately get out of this, and here again, I say, I call on a colleague of Karamatić to refrain from these, these, these, this, the way of communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3453	Thank you, Mr. Softić. Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here's if it hurt you to share that, as you said, some cookies, I do apologize, and here I promise to the whole public that I will never give you anything again, one thing. The other thing, I didn't really call for war, so I was trying to protect the Constitution of this country and this country and I said that an attempt to change the Constitution in any way will inevitably lead to war, so I didn't threaten anyone with aggression, I did fight once for this country and I will fight again. There's a lot of us here that have fought for this country, the truth about different clubs, a little bit different, that's a fact, and now it's ours. And this is my country and I will not let anyone break this country's constitution. As for the raised tone, I truly admit that I may have gone a little too far and provoked by the fact that someone has to respect the Constitution of this country, it's me, it turns me on, I love this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3455	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Genjac has a replica. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3456	...the chairman. Mr. Radmanović presented two such assessments that I think should be commented on. It's one question of attorneys at the House of Representatives, I suppose, given the course of the debate, since I was talking about the relationship of two homes, that this applies to me. So, in the context of the discussion, if you notice, this is actually about protecting the House of Peoples, not to take off into an adventure of adopting something why it is not competent in terms of the assessment and qualification of another home. On that, therefore, I do not think at all that the House of Representatives should be defended, nor do I have that desire at all, on the contrary, but in terms of overall relations and positions of the House of Nations. The second thing, I don't think that if I opened up too much debate, you said that the Presidency had brought a view on this issue, we wouldn't have this problem. As you know, the Presidency adopted a position on this issue in 2007, after which the Bureau never changed that position, and I think that because of this lack of respect for the 2007 presidency's position, problems have just arisen. And the Presidency is the only one responsible for this area and if we had all respected this presidency's position, which has never been changed, which only the Presidency can change, we wouldn't have this problem, I think that's where we differ.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3457	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mr. Radmanović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3458	Excuse me, for a moment. It's not a replica in the spirit of what I was saying earlier, but here's because I was directly called just to say, it wasn't just Mr. Genjac that it was about what I said to the lawyers at the House of Representatives. And one more thing, I know what this presidency is about, and I signed it myself, and I explained it, it's not even a dispute, but I repeat, it's not a topic here, and so I think it's a good idea to end up in the context of the debate bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3459	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Discussion, colleague Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3460	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will say very briefly, there is nothing to say here after all the debates, arguments about and arguments against, I think this is such a complex topic that it cannot possibly be brought down to the agenda and therefore should be very careful when we discuss these things and choose words, because the House of Peoples, as some colleagues have said, is at the end of all the institutions and ultimately the mutual relations that exist between the peoples can be a reflection further, and we know what can happen when it is not respected until the end. I want to say, this reminded me of a saying by a great lawyer, Valtazar Bogišić, who created the General Property Code of Montenegro and who formed these norms most by visiting the people, talking to the people and then beating them to the norm, and it became 46 of the greatest laws on the reputation of the laws of France and Austria. There is a saying that says a lot: “What is born with a coat of arms does not make the time right. ” That's exactly why I need to be careful with all these things we're talking about today, and here I am going to end up looking for a break on behalf of the 30-minute Serbian People's Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3461	Thank you, colleague Rodić. I'm taking a 30-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Can we continue our colleagues and colleagues? Well, since we're looking for a break, I think we've stayed a lot more than we've been asked to, but here's probably a reason. I give my word to Mr. Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3463	Dear colleagues and colleagues, given that we had a very long discussion about this and I would say not insignificant, contrary to a very important question, since we were all a little bit and under a high degree of emotion and almost awe, and it was seen in some way that the proposed Declaration by the Croatian People's Club, it seems to me that not in the text that was proposed acceptable to everyone, we at the Club of the Serbian People have tried to offer the text of the Declaration which, hopefully, is on the table to say and avoid, is better to say, everything here in the debate was that we do not contest the House of Representatives its sovereign right to take views, brings declarations and all other acts, on the one hand. On the other hand, let us not interpret the Constitution of BiH, on the other hand, and from that aspect here I will be free to read you the text of the Declaration that we propose as a compromise solution. 1. Article IV of the BiH Constitution stipulates that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH consists of two homes, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives; 2. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, without prejudice to the right of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives to adopt declarations and other acts, points out that the Declaration of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted at the 51st session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 07th and 13th September 2017, which concerns the problem of building the Land-Peljesac Bridge and some other questions on the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, as well as the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU, has not been discussed and has not been taken up in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH points out that the Declaration adopted by the Parliamentary House of BiH without the position of the House of Peoples has only the Declaration of the Parliamentary House of BiH, not the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH sends this Declaration to the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. 47 5. This Declaration takes effect on the day of its adoption, and will be published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". This is the text that we have offered, it seems to be acceptable and it would be good if someone took part in this discussion that indeed one of the least possible peaceful tones, if we have a proposal, a correction, to come to an end and go to a parliamentary one, and I would say, a very honorable way out of the problem that we have at some point seemed to be extremely complicated and that we will not be able to get out of it without some serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3464	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Anybody want to discuss what's been read now? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3465	The word is Mr. Bariša Čolak, chairman of the House. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3466	I thank Mr. Nović, thank you for this stop where, I hope, we have agreed here more than 95% of things. I would also like the Bosniak People's Club to make a statement about this, what I think and what I appreciate that we should, uh, add to this third point of this Declaration, so to the third point of this Declaration, I think that, that, that we should, however, put them in place of the point and the decimal, because that's how I think we should go and write this - that it as such cannot produce a legal effect. Here we won't talk about either international or domestic, or anywhere, because I just, uh, think it's just said, we're just realizing that they brought it, that we didn't bring it to anyone, but I think at least that would be a minimum of, uh, here's not going to, I say once again, talk about neither international nor bilateral relations, but we have to at least put it so much. Here, thank you very much. If there's anyone else with, here's Mr. Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3467	I think that, I respect the chairman and what he suggested, but I'm not sure that this House is appropriate to say whether or not he can produce legal consequences, about it afterwards, who knows who's going to appreciate it whether or not. I think that for the sake of a common good relationship, don't let us spoil it, not because we're proposing it, but I just don't see that this, this part of the text that you suggested, respecting that it can stand, but I think it's much more correct without this and us as a Dom, representatives of the Serbian Club or the Serbian Club, we stay with that text that we proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3468	I'm closing the debate. 48 First we have to make a statement about this information about the adopted Declaration, so in this part, and then we're going to go to this second, so we're going to have to plead twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3469	It's not a microphone that's on. It's three.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3470	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3471	No microphone short-off microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3472	My colleagues and colleagues, in order to honor the Rules of Procedure, we honor this Information, therefore, which was short received to the knowledge, and then we will declare the Declaration. Is that clear? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And here's one and the other, when I say one and the other, well, then I thought, so this declaration that's been offered, we're not going to make a statement about it, we're just talking about this part that I'm proposing. Do you understand me, it will
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3474	No microphone turned on. Did you pull the Declaration...?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3475	How'd you pull it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3476	No microphone A is included whether we declare information or declaration...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3477	I think I've been clear enough, so if you'd like to listen, first we're making a statement about the Information, whether we take it to the knowledge or not, so we're simply receiving information about, in this agenda point, the adopted Declaration at the 51st session. It is short, three sentences are written that then, then received, accepted Declaration at the House of Representatives and nothing more, so we take it into knowledge. After that, we declare the Declaration. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3478	Is there no microphone on which one?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3479	A fellow Tadić asks – which one?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3480	There's no microphone involved.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3481	We have this... so this is what, so this compromise proposal proposed by this colleague Nović and we have this supplement that I have now suggested, so I gave up our Declaration except for the first part, I agree with all of this, with what I've been looking for, and this supplement -- and as such, it can't produce any legal effect. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3482	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3483	Well, I get it, so I guess I'm the promoter and the club, so it doesn't matter if it doesn't go through the other, what now, not complicated. Come on, please, let's get to the information first. Please run this reporting mechanism. Did anyone ask for a word? Yes, it is. [[Shortly disabled microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3484	So, if we make a statement about accepting information or receiving information, who's the applicant of information, and what's the content of that information, you know?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3485	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3486	Is that what you're thinking? The written content of three sentences states that, it is believed that the BiH Constitution has been violated and that the House of Parliamentary Assembly needs to discuss the issue. That information says that the constitution has been broken, well, just so we know.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3487	...more, I'm asking you to run, do we have to do it again, this one, because. Mr. Raguž asked for a word, did he? Here you go, Mr. Raguž. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3488	The sum of the stenograms and due
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3489	Yeah, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3490	So the information could be this, what was the introduction to the text of the Declaration, right? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And that's undeniable, I mean, whoever looks at it is undeniable. And as for the Declaration, that's the club's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3492	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3493	And on behalf of Club You, Čolak can speak for yourself
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3494	Of course, in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3495	So, we accept the corrections of our... text that was as read by Mr. Nović, so these are complemented through the debate, a common position through the debate to not be, uh, some other formulation, it's the result of the debate and it's being stated about this text. Here I think it's very precise and then we can.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3496	Is everything clear now or needs more clarification?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3497	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3498	Go ahead, Mr. Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3499	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3500	Come on, let's go with, let's get this information out first. Please run the mechanism. You got it. 51 So of the 14 present – 8 was for, against 4, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against, no one abstention. From Republika Srpska – 3 for, it was not against, 2 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, we can conclude that this Information on the adopted Declaration at the 51st session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, whose representative is the president of the Club, so Mrs Zovko, has been accepted. Now let's go make a statement about the Declaration. So we've done some interventions in this Declaration, the first part, so that introduction hasn't changed anything, but it's changed in, I've changed the content of the Declaration, you've heard a little bit as he read
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3501	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3502	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3503	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3504	Wait, I'll give you a word. And what isn't?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3505	I asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3506	Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3507	As it is said, the rules are rigorous when it comes to the decision-making process in Parliament, do not allow any improvisation, and there is no place for them here. We had a debate, we had proposed texts, we held a debate within the Serbian People's Club, we held consultations with representatives of both nations and their clubs, their representatives to the extent that they were available to us during this break, and we came up with a text that starts with the word "Declaration", ending with the word "in the Official Messenger of BiH". Not a letter up, not a letter down, and that's Mr. Nović's suggestion, there was your intervention at one point to supplement it, not to paraphrase it, Mr. Nović said -- we don't think this is acceptable for all of us, and on this we will test in some way the willingness of the House to maintain its dignity and all of us to work together. And that is the proposal, so it starts with the "Declaration" one, a bracket, "Article IV of the BiH Constitution", and ends with the fifth point, "will be published in the Official Messenger of BiH". That is what we are voting on, if that is the proposal Mr Nović made, the Club, which was explained by Mr Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3508	I'll, I'll take a 15-minute break, I don't think so and we got it all wrong. 52 [[PAUZA]] I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to start working, please take your seats. I invite you to make a statement about the Declaration as Mr. Sredoje Nović reads. Please initiate the voting mechanism. You can vote. Of the 13 – for 10, against 3, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 5 was for, 3 against, no one was abstention. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, no one against and no one abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the Declaration, I think there is no need to read, as it is, here I will once again repeat Mr Sredoje Nović just before, before this break, read it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3512	... The Babalj misvoted... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3513	I'm sorry. Here's the thing. It's gonna have to come out again. Re-launch that mechanism to re-enact. Of the 14 present – there were 13, no votes against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against, with 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against, and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that a legislative procedure has been suspended on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're going to the 11th point, that's it, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-1411/17 of 05.06.2017. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples, the Committee for Finance and the Budget of the House of Peoples, the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications of the House of Peoples, the Joint Commission for Human Rights, the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of BiH, the Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development, the Joint Committee for European Integration, the Joint Committee for Oversight over the work of the OSA of BiH. The Constitutional Commission of the People's House supported the report on the 54th work of the Council of Ministers for 2016 in part of the activities of the institutions in the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission and proposed to the House of adoption of the Report. The Committees on Finance and Budget of the People's House accepted the report on the work of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the report on the work of the Public Procurement Agency, but did not accept the report on the work of the BiH Impaired Taxation Authority. The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications supported the Commission's 2016 report on the work of the Council of Ministers in part of the activities of the institutions of the Commission's competence. The Joint Committee on Human Rights has not adopted the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers in the area of competence of the Joint Commission. The Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH adopted the Council of Ministers' report on the work of the Joint Commission's section of competence. The Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development did not accept the Report in the section under the competence of the Joint Commission. The Joint Committee on European Integration supported the Council of Ministers' 2016 work report. The joint committee for the monitoring of the work of the OSCE of BiH has accepted the report in the section of the Commission's competence and is proposing its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives at the 50th session, held on 26.07.2017, did not adopt the Report. I give the word to the chairmans of the committees of the House of Peoples and representatives of the joint committees at the meeting of the House of Peoples. Is there a need? Just like in the report. There are no, therefore, reported. I now give my word to the Reporter, if he appreciates the need, and he is present. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3515	Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I am selecting between one long and detailed report, the report that will show the results of the BiH Council of Ministers' work in a dazzling way, has defined itself for this one, because you have been sitting for a long time and it is too late and here, let me say some basic parameters and some basic facts about the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016. Dear MPs before you is the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, which was made in accordance with the new Methodology, which, due to the increased level of its and analytical and content, obviously requires one such narrative explanation of the overall results of the work based on a large number of presented data and parameters. And that's why let me look back on the most important ones. As you know, right at the beginning of the term of office, this Council of Ministers of BiH, we have defined several of the most important priorities we have worked on over the last 30 months and so on in 2016, which are: 1. The dynamicisation of the European integration process and the active work on the realisation of the Italian conditions, i.e. the recording of promising military assets, as one of the most important conditions for the activation of the MAP for NATO membership. 2. Economic growth and development, i.e. putting potential at the disposal of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a plan and sustainable economic development. 3. The rule of law and the fight against organised crime, corruption and all forms of extremism and finally 4. Strengthening and improving regional and international co-operation. 55 I can tell you, and I will try to make this clear to you through a number of parameters that I will continue to present, that in 2016 as the Council of Ministers of BiH on this, we have worked very actively and very consistently and in the opinion of the domestic ones, and especially in the opinion of the international representatives of the institutions, and very successfully, because within the most important activity is a credible progress, so allow me to indicate just some of the visible and measurable results in relation to each of these priorities. In 2016, after many years in which the European integration process has been significantly slowed, it is certainly the most successful European year for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to properly understand the meaning of this progress, it is necessary to remind some of the facts. So Bosnia and Herzegovina began negotiations on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2005, initialled, as you can see on the slide, the 2007 Agreement and signed the 2008 Agreement. At that time, in 2008, Bosnia and Herzegovina was side by side with other countries in the Western Balkans region, with Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, etc. After 2008, there has been a significant slowdown in Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, which in certain periods has gained the character of a complete blockade, with Bosnia and Herzegovina starting to lag behind its neighbours and then stagnate in all stages of European integration. Such a situation, in fact, is the real state faced by this Council of Ministers when taking over its post in April 2015. And because of that, of course, it is very important and to make a comparative comparison and show when our neighbours got the candidate status that Bosnia and Herzegovina is now expecting. So you can see that the whole process in all neighbouring countries was completed before 2014, so before the appointment of this Council of Ministers, so Macedonia's candidate status was obtained in 2005, Montenegro 2010, Serbia 2012, Albania in 2014, and several unfulfilled councils remained ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement until the Coordination Mechanism. This Council of Ministers has taken the full seriousness of the situation and therefore we have made a number of concrete moves to realise our obligations on the path of European integration. Therefore, immediately at the beginning of 2016, the Council of Ministers launched a process of harmonising the Coordination and Technical Adjustment Mechanism of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the application for membership in the European Union was submitted in February 2016. In August 2016, after years of reconciliation, a long-awaited and met long-awaited condition was adopted, the Mechanism for Coordination of the European Integration Process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Protocol was subsequently signed and ratified at the SAA in order to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and is applicable from 1 February 2017. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement shall apply fully in accordance with its provisions and rules of international law. All bodies established under this Agreement and the relevant ministries and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina shall regularly monitor and report on the application of the Agreement, thus showing that Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully committed to implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and meeting the obligations arising from it. Continuity has also continued in the implementation of activities defined under the Reform Agenda at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, progress has been made in the field of combating all forms of organised crime and corruption, including the fight against terrorism, and ultimately a significant area of regional co-operation, in particular co-operation with our first neighbours, which has also been confirmed by mutual visits, joint performances and joint meetings. Such a credible implementation of the requirements set out on the European agenda of Bosnia and Herzegovina resulted in the receipt of a European Commission questionnaire for Bosnia and Herzegovina in December of last year, which contains 3242 issues and which, in particular, I would like to stress, is one of the most comprehensive, most complex and challenging parts of the European integration process of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as it covers all segments of political, 56 legal, economic, social, social and administrative life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this regard, I would like to stress that, within the framework of the implementation of the Decision on the system of the process of coordination of European integration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, all bodies, therefore, and the College for European Integration, and the Commission for European Integration and Working Groups for European Integration have been formed. We have 36 working groups, with 33 working groups forming in line with the chapters of the legal acquis of the European Union and three working groups on political and economic criteria and on public administration reform. The European Integration College has already held a number of sessions, as well as the Commission for European Integration, while working groups are actively working and finalising the process of preparing and harmonising single responses ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, all bodies are formed and actively working on the envisaged system of coordination of European integration. There were, of course, the first meetings of a series of subcommittees, and this was the Subcommittee on Agriculture and Fisheries in the sixth month of '16. Year, Subcommittee on Trade, Industry, Customs and Taxation in the seventh month of '16. in the year, the Sub-Committee on the Internal Market and Competition, the Transport, Energy, Environment and Regional Development Sub-Committee in November '16. and the Subcommittee on Justice, Freedom and Security in December 2016. Therefore, sincere commitment to the continuity of the process of European integration, the commitment to further implementing reforms, the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union remain at the top of the priorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is, of course, known and confirmed by both domestic and international officials, which the Council of Ministers recognised as one of the key generators of the European process at this stage of Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration. In parallel with this, activities were also led to the creation of whole state strategic documents with the aim of accessing IPA funds. Unfortunately, for Bosnia and Herzegovina these funds were planned only for the period 2014-2017, while for all other countries in the region these funds were planned for the period 2014-2020, which is why Bosnia and Herzegovina has lost, unfortunately, hundreds of millions of KM in the past few years. The European Union allocated funds for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period '14-17. but only for sectors – democracy and governance, rule of law, competitiveness, innovation, education and social policy and regional co-operation, while Bosnia and Herzegovina, due to the fact that they were not adopted at that time, so '13. and in '14, the whole state strategies, did not receive funding for extremely important areas such as transport, the environment, energy and agriculture. That's why we're already in November, early '16. the year and all of '16. years of very active access to the implementation of commitments to extend IPA funds related to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We adopted action plans under the IPA programme for 2017 based on the available annual location of 40 + 53m euros in order to improve human resources management in the state service system and further develop statistics, further support for public finance management and strengthening the efficiency of the justice sector's integrity, with a focus on effective implementation of anti-discrimination policy. Of course, we have put the key focus on the adoption of missing state strategies, two of which have been adopted so far – for transport and the environment, which has automatically resulted in a grant of more than 30m euros, reminding in particular of the funds that Bosnia and Herzegovina has received for two bridges in Svilaj and for the Bridge in Gradišca, while the adoption of the remaining strategies, so energy and rural development strategies are expected in the next period, which will fully implement all the conditions of the Indicative Strategic Document for the period of '18-20. which we prepared and launched in November 2016 and whose expected adoption will have the same status as other countries in the region. They would be included, therefore, areas for which we have not so far had financial support, which would again have more than 100m euros per year. The next important activity focused on the Council of Ministers' interest is the use of the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans. One of the most important results is howling four 57 projects we received at the last summit in Trieste. Three are connected to 5c highway shares and one to expand the Luke Brcko capacity terminal at a total investment value of 240m euros, of which we received 46m euros in grenades. I would also like to point out several important facts in the European Commission's 2016 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, which clearly confirms our determination to focus on important reforms that are important for the accession of the European Union. The Action Plan for the Implementation of Report recommendations with the participation of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted, we are actively working in co-operation with all other levels of government to finalise Bosnia and Herzegovina's response to the European Commission questionnaire submitted. A draft public administration reform strategy for the medium-term period of '17-20 was drawn up. The Action Plan for Implementation of the Justice Sector Reform Strategy for the period '14-'18 was adopted, while the strategies and action plans for the fight against corruption were adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and four cantons. Bodies for co-ordinating the fight against corruption were formed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and five cantons. At the same time, a strategy was adopted in the area of migration and asylum and the Action Plan for the period '16-20, which defined the Policy of Migration and Asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers also adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2016 Migration Profile, aimed at providing the BiH Council of Ministers with insight into key trends in the area of migration. What is important to stress is that a strategy for integrated border management in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period '15-'18 was adopted. It also entered into force, and the Agreement on operational and strategic co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office, i.e. EUROPOL, on the basis of this Agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding on the secrecy and security of data between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office, as well as the Agreement on the link between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office, was adopted. In the area of the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism, Bosnia and Herzegovina has realised all its obligations from Manival and FATF, and has in the past harmonised the financial system with Manival standards and requirements, and Manival has withdrawn its declaration of non-compliance with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has been devoid of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the Manival list and re-returned to regular procedures, as well as from all other member states of Manival. Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed to improving co-operation in the field of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. We welcome the adoption of the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy and in this respect the agreement with the European Union on establishing a framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in EU crisis management operations has been concluded. We are also actively working to realise the requirements of Tallinn so that... as soon as possible he can make a decision on the activation of the Action Plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership. Special progress was made in 2016, with a total of 57 perspective military locations currently registered in the Federation of BiH, 17 in the bookmaking process, and 8 in the bookmaking process. Respected representatives and representatives of the Council of Ministers continued to work in 2016 to implement reform measures from the Reform Agenda. As part of the Council of Ministers' competences, 34 measures are planned in the Action Plan, and 18 measures have been fully implemented by the end of 2016, 5 measures are continuously implemented, while 7 measures are under way. Therefore, the level of implementation of the planned measures for the four-year period is more than 55%, but in 2016 more than 90% of the measures planned for that year were realised. One example is that for the first time, practically for the first time at the state level, a mid-term debt management strategy has been adopted, which is one of the essential obligations under the Action Plan of the Reform Agenda for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unlike the very bad, even the negative decline in GDP, which, for example, was -3% in 2009, in 2010. 0.87%, 2011. 0.96% or 2014. 1.15% of GDP growth in 2015 was 3.07% and in 2016. 20.8%, which, when considering export growth as one of the most important 58 indicators of economic growth that increased by 4.85% in 2016, while more than 71% of exports are moving towards the countries of the European Union, and for the first time on the basis of such export growth, the coverage of imports has exceeded 60%, talks about the fact that our resources are plannedly placed in the function of economic development and that the significantly improved quality and competitiveness of our products. Our focus in the first phase of the reform agenda was on strengthening public finances management, and therefore significantly reduced the total cost of public sector wages, and we expect that measures under public administration reform will continue to increase efficiency in public spending. A total of 6.6 billion KM gross revenues were collected during 2016, talking about a 4.5% growth in revenues. As a result of the implementation of the measures under the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda, it maintained the stability of the financial system and its credit rating, so that the Modisa Report and other authorised agencies preserved a stable Bosnia and Herzegovina credit rating with positive prospects. In the area of improving the business climate and competitiveness, the most significant shifts include the adoption of a new Customs Policy Act, while preparing a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Signature, as well as accompanying sublegal acts, while in the final phase of the revision of the Regulation, the procedures in the Directorate for Direct Taxation which will allow for the full introduction of VAT services and income tax. A map of parafiscal burdens to be paid to the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget has been performed and a harmonisation of parafiscal burdens with other levels of government is ahead. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the upcoming trend continued in Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign trade and trade with the world during 2016. Bosnia and Herzegovina achieved almost 10 billion KM exports in 2016, which is 4,85% higher compared to the previous year, resulting in a 60.4% coverage of imports, which is a significant increase compared to the 2015 coverage, especially from 2014. The European Union remains Bosnia and Herzegovina's most significant foreign trade partner for the volume of exchanges and its participation is 70.7% in the total volume of exchanges. The EU market has been exported goods worth nearly 7 billion KM which is 5.76% higher than in 2015, with export coverage with countries of the European Union exceeding 60%. After the European Union, CEFTA participated in the exchange with Bosnia and Herzegovina with 15.5%, with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the CEFTA market in '16. The year exported goods worth more than a billion and a half KM, leading to an increase in exports compared to the previous year by 5.79%. The participation of the EFTA and other countries accounts for 13.5% of exports, with particularly significant markets seen as Switzerland, Turkey and China. In 2016, Bosnia and Herzegovina's main trading partners achieved exports of goods worth nearly 7 billion KM to the market of CEFTA more than one and a half billion KM, and the highest rate of export sales to Slovenia, Serbia, Croatia and Germany, respectively. This trend, of course, continued in 2017, so in the first six months we have an increase in exports by 16.5%, according to CEFTA countries by 33%, and according to the European Union countries by 14% compared to the same period in 2016. The faster pace of export growth from imports has contributed to the unmarked 62.2% coverage of exports. At the same time, we also have a growth in tourism that was 25.8% higher and a rise in income by 4.3%. Industrial production growth was also increased, it grew 4.3% compared to the previous year and it actually marked 2016, because it is particularly important to point out that this growth in production volume was followed by an increase in the number of real sector employees, i.e. industry. 59 As regards public debt, which is a very often important and mentioned topic, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a moderately in charge of contributing to its fiscal strength and allowing it to count on further financial support from international financial institutions despite limited access to external financing. Compared to the countries in the Bosnia and Herzegovina region, both the least in charge is absolute and relatively. Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt is about 6 billion euros, down from 40% of our GDP, for example. Serbia's public debt exceeded 25 billion euros, more than 70% of GDP, and Bosnia and Herzegovina stands better than Croatia whose public debt is greater than 40 billion euros or over 80% of GDP. So, all of these reforms, and all of these parameters, have, in fact, led to the creation of new jobs, which is an optimistic trend in order to address the most important macroeconomic and social problem that will ensure Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is a question of unemployment especially among young people. But I also want to make it clear that we are not satisfied even though the trends are promising and that we will be satisfied only when the benefits of reforms can be felt by all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and when conditions are created that everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina can live from their work. Progress has been made, of course, in sectoral areas as well. A strategy for the approximation of the rules on the legal heritage of the European Union in the area of the protection of the environment of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified the Paris Agreement along with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. In the area of transport, we adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Transport Strategy, and the first phase of digitisation was adopted at the Council of Ministers' level. A strategy for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's public procurement system for the period '16-20 was also adopted. with the following Action Plan for the period '16-17. We actively participate in numerous regional and European projects such as Horizon 2020, Creative Europe,..., Europe for Citizens, Customs, Fiscalis, Health for Growth, etc. In the field of fighting organised crime, corruption and all forms of extremism, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as you know, has adopted a strategy to prevent the fight against terrorism by the '20s. In 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted the Action Plan for the implementation of this Strategy. We also have an operational strategic co-operation agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office signed in August 2016, and then a Memorandum of Understanding on the secrecy and security of data between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office, as well as a link between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office. Once again, I would like to emphasise that in the area of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, we have harmonised the financial system with the standards and requirements of Manival, and we are deluded from the list of Manivals. Just as we are actively working on the implementation of the FATF Action Plan, 19 legal and sublegal acts have been adopted, so we have implemented the FATF Action Plan. The laws and sublegislative acts are in the phase of its application and we, very soon, already in September, expect the date of their visit when we should finally be removed from the FATF list, making Bosnia and Herzegovina fully fulfil all its obligations regarding money laundering and terrorist financing. And finally, here, over the past period, I want to say that the Council of Ministers has achieved a continuous strengthening of regional co-operation with the Western Balkan countries as well. A number of officials' meetings have been achieved, both at bilateral and multilateral meetings, because regional co-operation for us represents a strong impulse for the European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina and encourages economic and democratic development through regional integration, economic co-operation, mutual understanding and, of course, very important, confidence-building. In 2016, 60 representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina actively promoted and participated in regional activities in the context of the German-British initiative, and the European Union Agenda for Connecting the Western Balkan countries. 2016 was particularly dynamic in terms of regional co-operation, as Bosnia and Herzegovina chaired the Central European Initiative and hosted the summit of the leader of the Brdo-Briani process. On the occasion of the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency, CEI hosted the summit of the government's 18 countries of the Central European Initiative. The third Western Balkan leader's summit was held within the Berlin Initiative in Paris, with the aim of continuing dialogue and strengthening good neighbourly co-operation during 2016, the delegation of the Council of Ministers of BiH was officially visited by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Montenegro and, of course, followed by an official visit by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During that reporting period organised by the Council of Ministers of BiH, China's Ministerial Panel of Perspectives + 16 Central and Southeast European countries discussed the Western Balkans region in the context of joint regional projects with strategies for the entire Western Balkans region aimed at a joint appearance towards major investors from China. In 2016, apart from the already wrinkled, we adopted and brought in a series of important sublaws and other acts, including the adoption of a Regulation on how to control the prices of medicines, how to price medicines and how to report drug prices. And we already have the first results that saved nearly 60 million KM at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A project to nominate bankruptcy, medieval gravestone monuments has been successfully realised, and priorities for the development of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2016-2026 have been adopted, and the Council of Ministers has established a system of planning, and we have also established the principles of development of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 14 strategic objectives defined in the established document The Strategic Development Framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, during 2016 and in the cumulative period of work of the Council of Ministers, visible and measurable progress has been made and all parameters, the number of sets of sessions held, the number of adopted and realised materials, the number of strategies adopted, the cumulative number of laws adopted, the number of action plans adopted are indeed in favour of the quality, serious, consistent work of the Council of Ministers which was related to four areas, I repeat - European integration, economic development, strengthening the rule of law and further regional and international co-operation with focus on our first neighbours. Here, this is some of the shortest cumulative report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016. Thank you for your attention, and here I am and the ministers are here to answer all possible questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3516	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you have heard the rapporteur, Mr Zvizdić, chairman of the Council of Ministers for this item on the agenda. I'm opening the debate now. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Raguž, come in. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3517	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Mr. President, members of the Council of Ministers, here, perhaps sometimes it's good for the opposition people to go first when things are this important. I would first like to thank really for one content and very consistent and oral, and I would also like to say in writing the report that we received from the Council of Ministers, I would like to say first. The second thing I want to say is, therefore, that this report applies to 2016, and we are already at the end of 2017, so, unfortunately, in the public perception of the Council of Ministers' success now dominated by some of the trends in 2017, so they put in second plan the very important things that the Council of Ministers did in 2016 and in this context I really want to say, regardless of what I come from the opposition, clearly I want to stress that the Council of Ministers is in '16. indeed, any locomotive, better said, of this strategic European approach and in this context certainly deserves respect. The second thing, given that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has divided this into four areas: the European path, economic and economic development, the rule of law and regional co-operation, would really be allowed to secise all these four elements here. That European trip to '16. Let's accept it as positive, but then all the parties signed the Declaration, we had one wind in our backs, strong, European Union, we had a much more favourable political climate and atmosphere than we have now. But this part of economic growth, the rule of law and regional cooperation, I fear, is overrated in terms of the results that have been achieved. If I wasn't talking about the state of investment when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to talk about trends in agriculture and other resources, not to talk about the trends of going to people who are really strategically serious and devastating for this country, but of course they're not just about the effect of the Council of Ministers, but I'm saying in the evaluations of these important areas I think we need to be a little bit, I'd say, tighter on earth in terms of reality and reality. What I also want to say other than this, let's take the fact that some important strategic, infrastructure projects that have been provided with funds here, with all due respect, are not mentioned at all. It is about, you know, projects in Corridor 5C that are due to relations in the parliamentary majority, that I do not explain them more precisely, and we all know that it is very often about ground-hand interests, not about general choice of performers and blocking works, investment, blocking, blocking the integration of this country into European corridors in the south and north. And that, too, has to be talked about and we all have responsibility about it, and why some others aren't speeded up enough, why we've lost so much time because of this part about the transport strategy and the Transport Treaty, and still, still, still, it doesn't matter. I still have this positive part prevailing, and I won't be against the Report, I must say, but I would also like to say that for the Council of Ministers to be effective, there is a much greater energy and persuasion of ministers by vertical means, regardless of the powers. And when it comes to education, we have framework obligations at BiH level, we have no original competences. We didn't have any initiatives for science, for projects, to allocate additional resources, to affirm... we didn't. I haven't seen her, maybe I'm wrong. So I'm just taking one element, let's take the element that there's no state response absolutely to what people from the roots started from raspberries, mercy, turning stone into a fertile land, and we see, uh, they weren't waiting for the state, we don't have any reaction... we all don't have any reaction. So these potentials and that instinct that people in the fight for naked existence show very often clash with red tape and that approach that we almost all have to change. So, that dimension sure can be fixed, but why did I say this? Because only in this country is it possible that the leaders of the parliamentary majority almost two years before the elections say that there is no more parliamentary majority and no responsibility for 62 of those statements, and that we all know that it cannot be replaced in these circumstances by the Council of Ministers until the next election, that there are no extra elections institutes and that it is only politicising and preparing for the '18 elections, and no one leaves the ministerial chairs within the Council of Ministers, so it can only be in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now that's one of the reasons why I'm supporting you now when you become the target of such approaches, and I suggest you be an expert council of ministers, I certainly can't replace you. Now, come on, you show that capacity, so you can all submit to the common interests of the state and the citizens so that we have something, not to lose for a year and a half. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3518	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Karamatić answered for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman of the Council of Ministers, here I thank you for your report and I can tell you that I have been encouraged by your final sentence, that you and the other members of the Council of Ministers are here to answer questions. Well, let me point out, for several months now, you've owe me an answer to an emissary question, I hope it comes in the meantime. As for the Council of Ministers' Report, the Honorable Chairman explained a lot of what he was doing and I believe that for as long as possible, perhaps longer, it could explain what could have been done, and it was not working. However, as it went in that Monty Python circus, I'm going to do something completely different now. I must commend the three ministers who have made a very big step in this Council of Ministers' assembly and I will list them with names and I will list them for which, and that is one proof that if we have a quality person who thinks well, as noted by distinguished counterpart Martin Raguž, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first respected minister, Ismir Jusko, the minister of transport and communication, who, unlike his predecessor who remained remembered for having zero rules, zero laws, zero acts, launched numerous laws, launched the construction of a bridge in Svilaj that was in a well-moved phase, restored the construction of a bridge in Gradišca after 10 years alive and agreed to finance the Sarajevo-Belgrade highway. Now, will someone get the sense that they don't have to take the highway through everyone's village, so we'll do our best to finally deliver the route, so that people make it for us, it's another pair of sleeves, it's like everything else in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's a little harder, but it's a huge step. The second minister is the respected finance minister, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda, and the payment of the clearing debt from Russia. So we're the only country on the planet that's managed to collect the clearing debt from Russia, which I think is a huge success. And the third, of course, comes the lady, and it has to be sugar at the end, one huge step for Bosnia and Herzegovina, even in the style of what we just talked about declarations, resolutions, distinguished Minister Semiha Borovac. This has gone quite unnoticed in the public, including within the Parliamentary Assembly, I must mention that it has managed to organise, meaning, religious leaders of all leading religions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and visit the tombs of all three peoples where the crimes took place. It is a huge step for this country and about it the media have paid very little attention, because there cannot be too many comments, negative ones, on the portals, and the Parliamentary Assembly did not give meaning to that, and that is the way in which Bosnia and Herzegovina, in my opinion, should go. And I think we should work on it, not trying to fool each other, that the only one we vote on is not a 63-way trip for this country, and it's going to take her where he's been, and Yugoslavia, if we continue that path. And here, I appeal to all of us to take the path that was followed by the distinguished Minister Borovac and to continue doing so. Report as a report, as my colleague Raguž said, I won't be against it, it was, it was really working, I think it could have been a lot better working, for that reason I won't even support it, so as far as I'm concerned, I'll be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3520	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Dear Ambassador Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3521	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I think this report is worth a little more attention than I can see. Maybe that's why they're completely clear political dimensions here in the House of Peoples, since the House of Representatives didn't get the required majority, this is where they'll probably get it. So perhaps many feel that there is no need to say anything about the report itself. Of course, Parliament has a control function and the basic role of Parliament is to control the work, among other things, of the Council of Ministers because it elects them and, of course, by listening to the Honorable Chairman, we could hear a lot of data today and I am not slowing down, of course, that is the way and the chairman knows best how much has been done, what has been done and how much steps have been made. However, what I want to say is something that is related to both Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and as regards certain statistics that say that all of this narratively we heard should also follow certain activities of all of us together. When I say that, then I will just remind you of a few facts when it comes to legislative activity in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and given the Reform Agenda and all that was important and our efforts to go along the path towards the European Union, which means much more dynamic legislative activity, and which means harmonising more laws with the laws of the European Union. However, when we observe this, we can conclude that a total of 25 laws were passed in 2016, 5 of which were legislators, 19 of the Council of Ministers and 1 of the BiH Presidency. It also rejected 25 laws, 13 legislators were delegates, 2 commissions and 10 Council of Ministers' laws. One law has been withdrawn, the legislator and one Council of Ministers and the basic legislative procedure of 7 lawmakers has been suspended, meaning MPs, delegates, one commission and one Council of Ministers. If you look at the total number of laws passed and we have in mind the need for a stable parliamentary and parliamentary majority, then on this basis it is difficult to understand that a large number of laws have been rejected in the parliamentary procedure, and proposed by the Council of Ministers, which, of course, is supported by the parliamentary majority. It is clear to me that this is the first time that the Council of Ministers' report has been done according to the new Methodology, with a lot of data that had not been previously and on all those committees that discussed these reports, it was one of the objections. Of course, the ministers were trying to narrate what it was about. Also, 344 parliamentary questions were asked in 2016 and we received answers to 262 which says that one good part of the parliamentary questions is not answered. And there could be a lot of talk here, 64 and argued and data and facts, but I will remind you that this House has made a number of conclusions in both this and last year, especially when it comes to audit reports where we, especially the Finance and Budget Commission, have sought to make as much of those recommendations as possible through financial audit reports and impact reports, however, this activity has been found to be at a very low level. Here I will just quote a few views from the Chief Audit Service report on the Impact Review Report and the Recommendations. Most of the recommendations in the follow-up reports were addressed to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has not yet developed mechanisms or capacities to actively monitor and analyse recommendations both those specifically addressed to the Council of Ministers and those addressed to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are in its jurisdiction with the aim of full and timely implementation of the recommendations. The purpose of implementation and monitoring of the impact review recommendations is not sufficiently recognised by the institutions and more than 30% of the institutions, etc., was not at all concerned with these recommendations, and we all know that, when we analyse the financial audit then we can say after these 15 years that the financial audit has reached its peak and that all institutions have, in the least case, an audit report with the reserve, while the impact review is now something that will be in the coming period, and I have always viewed it as something that goes towards better work of institutions and the overall system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And there is a lot that could still be said, however, I personally think that there is much more to be done together, and of course some bear a little greater responsibility because they supported this concept of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to encourage what is as ideas well, which has been made a significant step, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, through the realization of many elements of the Reform Agenda. Although I think that there could have been much more done, or certain internal bargaining processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not think, are going with a very satisfactory dynamic. But all in all, I think that we as the House of Nations must also take care of what we are adopting, what we are tasking the Council of Ministers, how much this is realized and how much better dynamics we can make in the coming year, that this part of the stated objectives are also followed by legislative activity, which is one of the basic tasks of this Parliament and, of course, the Council of Ministers which is one of the most important promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3522	Thank you, Mr. Rodić. An envoy, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3523	I thank the chairman. So, it is our privilege to discuss in one calm atmosphere, the language of arguments, rationally, such as the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and, of course, we all have in mind and the complexity of the constitutional arrangement in Bosnia and Herzegovina and many political entities affecting the work of the Council of Ministers and the dysfunctional schedule of competences that have given way to the Council of Ministers and a very difficult coordination role have given to the Council of Ministers in a situation where everyone represents their interests and has very little readiness, I would say, on various levels, that, in the interests of all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, certain solutions are found. This is evident, it is a situation that has been present since the end of the war to this day, and it is a constant state and we can talk about the work of the Council of Ministers 65 in this or that mandate, always with these problems, and it is therefore justified to compare the work of the Council of Ministers with the work of another Council of Ministers, therefore, there is a standstill because it is a matter of working in the same conditions. I think that this Council of Ministers has delivered to us an extremely substantial report, a report which, for this year and this time, for the first time is structured in a new way, in a way that is separated, we have an introduction, so the report on the implementation of the Action Plan, so the report on the laws of the Yearly Plan, the report on sublegal acts, the report on international agreements, the report on public investment, the report on the the thematic part of the Annual Programme, and finally the data on the activities in the process of European integration in one summary way. So, the report is objective, correct, it contains everything that has been done and much has been done, many ministries and many ministers have justified trust. I think the ministry has kept the atmosphere of constructive dialogue as a whole, that it has succeeded to a large extent the interest of Brisel in our integration process and to focus and welcome it in the right way. And with all these remarks as we consider it on committees, you know the representatives of all institutions, so at least where I've been on committees, it's not about the work of institutions, it's not about what institutions are, it's about what large political thesis is, etc., and established and unfounded, which have nothing to do with the report on the work of Viejc Ministers, and I think that in the context of this new report and the new method of drawing up reports, it will need to think about how the reports are discussed on committees and at home. Here we have, I think, the repetition and unnecessary accumulation of procedures to unconsciousness, you know, special commissions, joint commissions, all institutions, on competent committees, it's one process that exhausts great, great energy both in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers. I think there's a need to make it, that it may, perhaps, be simplified, to consider whether or not it's necessary. Then complaints that there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers, you know, one 50 times the Council of Ministers' report is being considered by various bodies to come to homes, you know. I mean, it's really, uh, I don't see the point, so practice has shown that there's no point to it, that's one thing. One, and another, my suggestion is that the Council of Ministers, when planning their annual work, may need to be a little more careful about the number of legal projects. You know, objectively, it's not always up to the Council of Ministers, I understand good will and good intentions, but at least it's been seen that legal projects in a large number of cases, you know, uh, the Council of Ministers supports, proposed, members of the majority who supported it in the Council of Ministers, some, are voting against the law, this has been very often happening in this term. So, perhaps with this caution about the number of laws that are subject to later and analysis etc., we should have, but in the existing environment, the existing context, political relations, I think the Council of Ministers has done a solid job and of course that is why I will support this Work Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3524	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. First deputy, Mr. Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With such a complete dissatisfaction that the measures of political decisions and behaviour and evaluations have become a copy of those forms of the Centre of Civil Initiatives, I can't accept that we talk about political issues by dealing with some numbers that, at the very least, don't express anything. So when we from Republika Srpska started here as members and delegates of the House of Peoples, we got the public's view that these laws should be as little as possible. Right? So I'm telling you this as one of the examples from which you can see, so what are laws and how many are there and what is the number and quality of them. So, let's not burden this Council of Ministers with numbers, first of all, it's not such a form of political authority, it's not a government, in that it can possibly measure some statistics, its original powers, and even those that after Dejton managed to win, are not such that it can crucially define even the situation in this country. And what the Council of Ministers represents for the people who live in this country is one place where representatives of people and entities meet, because it is also by the legal definition of the Council of Ministers, of course and political parties, and establish some measures of joint work that should be of multiple benefit. Let's evaluate the importance of the Council of Ministers' work, therefore, from this objective political aspect that corresponds to its constitutional and legal role, and not with this statistical one that, believe me, means nothing. Which means the number of regulations, decisions, etc. etc. So he knows whether that rulebook made sense and whether it should have been passed and what the results were produced and whether they were 12 or 30, so there are as many as there should be. I don't believe there's a need somewhere for 300 regulations that someone won't write, so that's not how the rules are written, or someone says this year we're going to have 200 regulations, not carrots. So, I reject, with all due respect to the CCI, I reject that kind of thinking when it comes to politics, let alone what we do. And from this, as I delegate it, the objective political aspect, 2016 for the Council of Ministers of BiH was more successful than in 2015 and as far as I can see, rather successful than in 2017, but they were not effects by political factors, especially those who support the Council of Ministers were equally good. I, as a delegate coming from the Serbian Democratic Party, the Alliance for Change, may, therefore, be satisfied with the atmosphere that was in the Council of Ministers during that period of co-operation, but cannot be satisfied with what went into the public of Republika Srpska, without which the Council of Ministers does not have and, in the end, has suffered considerable damage to the local elections in 2016. So the imbalance of both the promotions and the priorities of the political and their promotions, and the influence of the political leaders on the Council of Ministers, directly caused damage to the political option which stood firm and today will also support the Council of Ministers, which is why the local elections did not go well enough to continue this trend and to keep the political party ratings in place today. So today's Council of Ministers not only doesn't have a majority in the House of Representatives for a variety of reasons, but it's for today's elections, these people, with this number of hands, not to be able to provide support for this Council of Ministers. I can respect all the weaknesses that, of course, the various mayors and mayors, etc., had in the field, as well as the weaknesses of politicians representing certain policies, but the central place of representation of all these policies has just been the Council of Ministers throughout this entire time. Without intending to compromise on this, I say again, whether or not I will support the Council of Ministers' 2016 report, of course I will, as well as Mr Babalj, I appeal to the Prime Minister's Presidency to do what is necessary to ensure that the work of the Council of Ministers and Republika Srpska would have the kind of positive promotion that, let's say, here in the Federation provides a pretty good status and the Party of Democratic Action, so I would say even to the HDZ, which is often the biggest opposition to that Council of Ministers, even within the Council of Ministers. If this does not happen, we will have one serious problem, and that is the discontinuity of politics after 2018, abandonment, I am sure, completely European path that you are responsible for and you have taken on the role of someone who promotes it to the greatest extent possible and I do not see how this can be of interest to you, to any of your associates. I understand that you do not make decisions alone, no one is 67 predicating to impose such responsibility on you, but I call on you to make all of what you have officially, unofficially, privately, semi-privately known in the light of the objection made by members of your Council of Ministers, the presidents of the parties from which these representatives come, to make it public and to help Mr Babalj and me and all the other members of this Parliamentary Assembly who would like to correct the result for the better, to really come to this. Without that, we have a problem explaining to the public what is causing the problems of political parties from Republika Srpska who support the work of the Council of Ministers, and that is not pleasant at all, because, beware, no one has taken on the role of kamikaze. Well, maybe we would accept that we have some role of kamikaze if we knew that the story about the European Union is over in 2018, that we have made that success and that we need to pause one term, so here are two, it's no problem, but we have something to boast about, we have something to go back to the political scene. In this situation where we are now, we are left with only some kind of peritition that I think you could have more determinedly cut in time, which is why we have to explain inexplicably, as is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to a Criminal Law that is the way it is. You know, a member of the presidency who is the president of the HDZ that the Council of Ministers does not have a majority, and then his minister proposes to amend and supplement the Criminal Law to the same Council of Ministers, which are such that you do not know what else to explain to the public. In that, at all, I say I respect Mr. Grubeša's personality, it's not about him personally, it's about politics. There's a saying not to cut the branch on which it sits, no matter what it wants to reach. I will not enter into relations that exist in the Federation, therefore, political ties for 2016, which questioned or did not question the support of the Council of Ministers, I am not invited, although, of course, concerned about these things, but here you are, please, with absolute support to insisting on this European path that the way of explaining all of this in Republika Srpska is adequate to the public, because otherwise all of this together, the question is whether it makes sense or doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3526	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Rodić signed up, I assume he's got a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3527	So whether it's a replica or a false quote, we'll see since Mr. Tadić is not directly, I think he's spoken to the Centre of Civil Initiatives, not to me, although I was talking about statistics, and he's talking about high politics, and I'd be praying to Mr. Tadić maybe afterwards to listen to a stenogram of my speech and my speech, so he can see that I was talking about the report, about the data in the report itself. I remember the time when it was the other way around, when someone was the majority and some opposition, so we can see it. In any case, of course, everyone should express their political position towards this report and it is nothing controversial. I just said that the stable majority is right and the work of the Council of Ministers would be much better, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3528	Thank you. Now, since I signed up, I'll just take a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3529	The word has been given to the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3530	It's short for your colleague Tadić. This, well, the president of the Croatian Democratic Community Mr. Čović said something, unfortunately, which is, he said something which is unfortunately true and these are facts and we are not glad that it is. On the other hand, if we want to talk about the support of the Council of Ministers, let's remember if it is perhaps the most significant law to be passed, I hope it will be passed, as the Taxation Act, I hope that this was not the Croatian Democratic Community on the way to passing that law. That's it, thank you. My colleague, wait a minute, we have Mrs. Džambas, and then we'll give the word to Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3531	I have to replicate to Mr. Tadić, but there's no luck in Arnaut, so he's misquoting me. You said that HDZ ministers are opposition to the Council of Ministers, I don't know about the situation,...I don't say that I sit with them every day, but I don't know about the situation. But the MPs, i.e. the envoys, are possibly the opposition to some of the bill's proposals. Here's today we passed a bill on the salary increase of police officers for whom we, here from HDZ, from, here's just the two of us from HDZ in that Finance Committee, fought for the budget, so we're not going to take down the budget, so we're fighting for what the Council of Ministers is doing, we're looking for some kind of solution, no one else is just us looking for a solution to help survive the budget, it's not Bevanda, it's the Council of Ministers. And then today, since I was, I said what I voted for, which is why I voted for, and then we have a situation today, two months ago we said that this law will be valid from 01.01.2018. We know we don't have, that there's no possibility of budget rebalancing, and we've put the Council of Ministers in trouble. Then come the various laws, populistly, I expected everything that we'd say once let's stand more with the populist laws that keep us going, that's what we're saying, we've never voted from HDZ for any of those laws, and they're putting it there for ourselves now plus whether it's gonna be 18 working days or 20, it's law, it puts plus, it has a law for 2017. it's funny to me. We're not stuck in any reform law, and we're going to try for everything to both MPs and I'm sure the ministers will be in a position to defend the Council of Ministers, not because... and finally because I am HDZ, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3532	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Here is the discussion, esteemed colleague Nebojša Radmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3533	Ladies and gentlemen, in two days, the last quarter of 2017 begins and in this time of the 21st century when everything is moving fast, we are at the end of '17. We are discussing the 2016 Report. In all civilized countries, especially in this European country that he likes to talk about, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, they already have plans for 2018, and we should by law have a draft budget for next year, and we are discussing 2016 and we are discussing it in a fairy tale way. The chairman of the Council of Ministers comes out and here brings out fairy tales of things that aren't connected to this space, like they're talking about another planet or maybe 69 talking about something we forgot, because 2016 was a long time ago. This is where the events are coming from, and we don't have time to talk about it, listening to a new methodology, statistics, one that of course likes the authorities, and not the other one that doesn't suit her, and we're not able to say openly that this is the Council of Ministers who don't have the support in Parliament and that this is now a session where, even after the debate, his 2016 report will be adopted, I stress again, and it isn't adopted in that other home. What do we do, ladies and gentlemen, by developing this space or fairy tale about how good we are? And we are not good, and we all know that we are not good, we know that no plans are being made for the road to the EU, aside from the good statistics on which the speech from its point of view chaired by the Council of Ministers, but we are not on that path to the EU. The comparison in this sense with the region would show that we are nowhere, other comparisons here used, statistical, show that we are ahead of some countries and probably in some things we are, and as shown by the chairman, but we are not in general. We didn't notice that here the Council of Ministers praised himself with a number of things he didn't deserve but entities and cantons and all that, but he skipped to say what was wrong. So it's nice to say that we're imagining something for higher education, and isn't it supposed to be in the report to say that we still don't have 8% of the educated in this country and that we are the worst in the region, which is why both in the EU and a series of such indicators we could talk about. Statistics is statistics, she may warn us of some things so we can fix some things, but we only bring up statistics and follow it with the, at least, and you should listen a little bit in the presentation how many times the chairman said we are the most, most of all, just not said that we are the most beautiful, and maybe we only had a chance here, and not in this second one that you talked about. Unfortunately, the report does not show the real situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I say, unfortunately, I wish it was much better, if we could all support it, if there was no position or opposition, but it's not, I'm going to remind you of some of the things that we've heard here or haven't, and we should have heard it. The chairman says progress in the fight against crime is visible. Are you right, Mr. Zvizdić, or your Minister of Security? Every day or here not every day but every other day, he comes to the media to talk about a huge crime that is growing every day, which no one solves, and doesn't solve, as he says, because the prosecution is also in crime, and here we hear the assessment that progress is. But at the same time we haven't heard a few subtle sentences about preparations for terrorism in this country, where we are, we haven't heard a single sentence about the work of the Intelligence Service and intelligence affairs, even though you are at the head of the Council and that kind of work. So there's a lot of gaps here and out there and those we couldn't hear and didn't hear, he didn't bring them up as chairman, he didn't write them, and it's not possible to support a report like this. Of course, the question is what is the point and when you support and when we do not support this period Report 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3534	Thank you. Since I don't see any more reports, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point right now. saći will declare ourselves, we will vote on the 2016 Council of Ministers' Work Report. Prepare to plead. From the present 1370 ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I beg your pardon? If I heard correctly, please repeat. So from the 13 present – for there was 8, against 4.1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against and there were no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an ethnic majority. I am establishing a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for 2016 has been adopted. Coming through.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3536	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3537	I didn't see you looking, and here I'm gonna let you have no problem, I didn't really see you looking, so here's my apology if you asked before I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3538	Nothing, I just want to thank the MPs, especially those who supported the Council of Ministers' work report and that there is not one question left unclear, so no one is any opposition within the Council of Ministers' work, we really have a very good collaboration based on mutual understanding, respect for the facts and the fact that it was adopted, I don't know, over 3200 acts unanimously, talking about the fact that there is no obstruction or any other obstruction in the work of the Council of Ministers. I presented my report on the basis of relevant, verifiable and measurable facts, of course, this is not the time now, and I probably have a business opportunity to go into the discussion or to replicate especially Mr Radmanović, I would not want it because of his experience and his age, but I was talking about facts, which are neither disputed except that the usual political pomphlets that we hear every day or talk about some imaginary intelligence and other affairs that have no foothold in any act or in any institutional act that can support such a thing. So I still call on us to talk exclusively about facts, and the facts are what I said and showed on slides based on reports of authorised, measuring institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I can't talk about what someone would like to hear or someone who sees another relationship situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3539	Thank you, Mr. President. We move to the 12th item of the agenda of today's session, which is – Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Agency Management Board
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3540	No microphone 71 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3541	.... reported, so I'll give you my word, of course go ahead. As I did not see before, Mr. Zvizdić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3542	I know it's not right for me to call after the debate is over, but this isn't the first time that you or any of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers give a word when it's over and then we have a normal problem, then it ends up on something that he says is mostly not true. [[no microphone turned on]] So, I haven't said anything critical and that's wrong, I just haven't said a series of things that I should have said, because I'm assessing that it's not necessary at this point to be... but here I have to react to one thing, here's what I don't know how to call it, an important thing. You said Mr. Chairman that they were imaginary intelligence affairs, I didn't invent them, the BiH presidency chairman said they were listening. Did you hear that or did I just happen to read it somewhere? And it's not an affair, so not that it's an affair, it's a stress for executive power in every state and for every intelligence community in general. So I was also talking about the president using statistics, statistics, and I said he was using good ones, and where are the ones we're not talking about, and I just called this in just to say that there wouldn't be an unspeakable thing left. And let us stick to, the Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, give no one a word when you conclude the debate, neither shall we answer, nor shall the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3543	Thank you. I also gave Mr. Zvizdić and you, I just didn't notice that you answered. All right, we're moving on, so now we're just, just a little bit, now we have to plead, we're not about this point being declared. Just a little bit or...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3544	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3545	At 12, me, me, we're going to the 12th agenda, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-946/17 of 05.04.2017. I didn't read it, I thought we got to, uh, the pleas. So you got the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships of the House of Peoples, 72 The Commission accepted the Report and proposed to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 46th session on 31.05.2017. I give the word to Mr Radmanović, chairman of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships to the House of Peoples, if he appreciates his needs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3547	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3548	So, like in the report. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, okay. I give my word to the Reporter, if he is present and has needs. There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Any word from anyone, Mr. Genjac has come forward to discuss this item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3550	I thank the chairman. The review of this Report and the report of the Management Board of IGA has already been considered because it was not a representative of the Management Board of the IGA. Is there a representative of the Board today?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3551	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3552	Thank you. As is known for this report, the House of Representatives was under review, and then, due to the situation in IGA, the Commission of Investigation was formed and the Commission had done certain tasks, reached certain and adopted certain conclusions, etc. etc. Given that the report contains some, some announcements or some assumptions of a temporal nature that already refer to a period that has passed, I think we should, that we need information. First, information on what was going on in IGA and what he was doing at the board of directors. So on page 13, when we look at it, we'll see that the Agency pays jubilee prizes regularly for five years working at the Agency 50%, up to 35 years 250% of personal income, that's a positive thing, say. And then when we go to the boards that show the Agency's business, let's say on page 5, we have a accumulated financial net score in '16. 189.333, and 15. 189,437. I was happy because I thought this was thousands... but when you look up at the note that 73 of this, that these are thousands, thousands, then the accumulated financial net is the result of 189 million losses, controversial claims. Now aside from the fact that it's a little bit unusual in thousands to express this, you know, so later and in the text, this goes on in an unusual way, where it says 1189. It is therefore known that the Agency started on 05 June 2007 with work, that the law was adopted which laid down the competences of the Agency and the Management Board of the Agency, etc. And we are today where we are because of these issued guarantees that it's actually 189,000 and that for some..., 189 million, for some 120 and some million exceeds the value of the Agency and the capital it owns. What actually happened, what happened, as it happened, so much, so much debt, so much controversy, so much disputed claims, and so much disputed claims, we have the Supervisory Board, the Governing Board, we have management, etc. etc. Since February 2016, therefore, the main business of the Export-Credit Agency is insurance, credit insurance of export-credit agencies, hence the promotion of exports and guarantees to those who are targeted at exports, etc. Secured percentages according to how the set is, potential exports, payments, usually 90% of the buyer's debt to the bh exporter, are provided. Since February 2016 resecuritizer Atradius Ray and National Bon(?) have cancelled the Reinsurance Treaty so that the risk of the entire insurance portfolio is borne by the Agency since that date. Now, as shown in the financial report for the year that ended December 31st, '16. In the year, the negatively accumulated financial result is thousands of 189,333, which is a defect when reading 189 million, but writes thousands of 189, such a method of processing is probably taken. The Agency's total liabilities exceed the amount of the Agency, the total assets, for 136 000 which raises doubts about the Agency's ability to continue operations under the five-item time limit, without funding and other support from its owners. So these are the references from the report. The Agency has been sued by domestic business banks, since it has provided guarantees for the credit obligations of the Unis, etc. etc. Now, the Unis thing, now that we don't hold back, it's the end of the day and we're tired, but it's said to be in November '16. the year of the signing of the Debt Reprogramme Agreement between the Union and foreign creditors who are beneficiaries of the Agency's guarantee. This Agreement provides for a period of payment of 11 years with an interest rate of 1% per year, defined individual amounts, etc. etc. Although the Agency in this Reprogramme Agreement is not... exempt from the obligations under the guarantee by way of a degree of effect of this Agreement it may be considered to be a legal institution of renovation(?) as a way of ending the obligation, etc. However, as Unis failed to reach the Reprogramme Treaty, a commitment with domestic creditors including Borab Bank, notes most of these 189 million refer to the Unis and what was happening with the Unis. So, since Unis failed to reach an agreement on a reprogramme of commitments with domestic lenders, which includes the Bobar Bank in bankruptcy, Bank of Serbia in liquidation, First Factor d.o.o. In liquidation, New Bank Banja Luka and MF Bank, therefore no agreement has been reached with any agreement there is a obligation under the Law on the bankruptcy of Republika Srpska's resolution of these claims within two years of the adoption of the plan for financial and operational restructuring of the Unis, etc. The start of the process of financial, operational restructuring of the Unis is expected to pay off credit obligations according to the payment plan, the proposed financial and operational restructuring plan in mid-'17. A year. So mid '17. has passed, the question is whether it has begun in line with the start of the process of financial and operational restructuring of the Unis, whether the payment of credit obligations under the payment plan has started, which could have a positive impact on the Agency's financial position in the coming period. The Agency also requested that the Unis provide collateral in the form of explicit notary documents from a company that is linked to the legal face of the Unis in the case of judicial enforcement of the Agency. Is the secured collateral in the form of express notary documents? I would ask, given that in front of the Municipal Court in Doboj, according to this Report, a trustee vote on the operational and 74 financial restructuring plan of the Unis was scheduled for 11 April this year, so the question – is it done? At that time, the plan was expected to be adopted and the implementation of the Debt Reprogramme Agreement was to be implemented. So, the question is, did the Commissioners vote before the Municipal Court in Doboj on 11 April, whether the Plan and the start of the Implementation of the Reprogramme Sporaum was adopted, whether it was in mid-'17. The year has begun, according to the payment plan that implies the payment of credit obligations? I'd like to ask you the answers to these questions, and then we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3553	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I have to offer before, since the public debate is already open, let's see if any of the envoys have any other interests in the debate, and then we'll call the applicant. No, I can't see. Here you go. Here, I'm asking you to introduce yourselves for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3554	Thank you, Your Honor. My name is Dragana Lažetić, I am the vice chairman of the IGA Management Board. Delegates, ladies and gentlemen, means specifically about your issues, the Unis Restructure Plan has been adopted and a solution has been adopted that has become a forceful 29th of this year. The universe is working, so foreign creditors have signed, voted for this restructuring plan, payments are due to begin next month according to the plan. That's it, I hope I've answered all those questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3555	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3556	And the accumulated one, the net loss, that's the loss, he's only referring to the Unis, nothing else, so he's 189 million.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3557	Okay, thank you. Any more questions? Mr. Genjac, do you have any more questions? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3558	So it's very important for this to get into the stenogram that an agreement has been reached and that payment is started and that you shouldn't expect problems, right? Only in case it's not in practice that's been repeated several times before, everything's fine, and 189 million losses in claims, you know. Uh, I still think that the Unis business of the pipe factory was all about being introduced, importing 65,000 tons of repromaterials for processing into further exports, and it's never been realised. So, imported repromaterial for export processing, you've given guarantees, it's never realised. Also, the Directorate for Direct Taxation did not act in accordance with the law in the case of the monitoring of imports of repromaterials, VAT deleveraging, and exports of finished products of Unis factory pipe. So it's amazing that, by the IGA's indirect 75 tax administration, which has given guarantees, this debt is increasing to 189 million and we today have the answer that it's starting to pay off and about everything should be okay. I think we need to take this more seriously, and I suggest the following conclusions: 1. The People's House underlines the importance and need of existence, as well as the transparent and legal action of IGA for quality support of bh exporters. 2. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers for a detailed analysis of IGA, with special emphasis on business with the Unis pipeline factory Dervent. Two, so we ask the Council of Ministers to urgently make a final decision on the definition of an optimal solution for the future work of IGA BiH. If Unis is found to be paying off, that doesn't need anything, then it's quite all right, but I would still like the Council of Ministers to run an analysis of what's going on with IGA, whether IGA can continue this way and with the fact that the Unis will repay the loan. 3. The home of the people asks the Management Board and the management of the IGA to monitor the state of the proceedings in relation to the business and guarantees issued by IGA and to report on this to the competent institutions on a regular basis. 4. It is apparent from the content that there is a basis for action that is not fully in line with IGA law, there is a justification for the legitimate suspicion of the illegal operation of the Unis plant pipe Dervent in the case of imports of 65 thousand tonnes of repromaterials in order to process further exports which have never been realised, while at the same time the Directorate for indirect taxation did not act in accordance with the law in the case of the monitoring of imports of repromaterials, VAT deleveraging, and the export of finished products of the Unis plant pipe Derventa, for that reason the report on the work of the Management Board of the IGA to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. These are the four conclusions I suggest we adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3559	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Now I don't know if the esteemed emissaries and envoys understood everything Mr. Genjac has read, and may I be able to make a statement based on what's been read, so on these suggestions of conclusions, or should we give, perhaps, or should we go on, and let's go back, say, so this is what we're saying when we get it in writing. How? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) 76 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3565	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3566	As in the report, thank you. And now I give my word to the Reporter, is there any need? Okay, thank you. So, you're present, but there's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for the word on this agenda point? There's no interest in the debate, I'm closing the debate. We will now declare ourselves, we are voting on the Annual Report in the field of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. Of the 13 present – for it was 5, against 5, abstention 3. From the Federation of BiH – 3 for, 2 against, 3 abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against and there were no abstentions. There is, so there is no general majority. I agree with the Annual Report on Agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 has not been adopted. We are now voting on the Information on the realization of the conclusions of the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You can make a statement about, excuse me just once again, so we are now pleading on the Information on the realization of the conclusions of the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. Do it again, do it again just, uh, is it time out, so we couldn't make out. We have the next situation, so from the present 13-7 was for, against 4, abstention 2. From the Federation of BiH – 5 for, 1 against and 2 abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. There is, therefore, a general and entity majority, so we can conclude that the information on the realization of the conclusions of the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 04.05.2017, is therefore accepted, this is being taken into account. We're going to the next, 14th item of the agenda of today's session, that's Ad. 14. Report by the BiH Ministry of Security on migration trends and activities to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms of migrants and asylum seekers, issue: 03/6-37-1226/17 of 12.05.2017. Here we have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission adopted the Report. At the 52nd session, the House of Representatives adopted the Report with the opinion of the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I give my word to a representative of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, if he has one. No 78. I give the word to the bearer, which is now our bearer, whether or not we have a bearer. There isn't. I suggest that we not plead today, but that this, this item of the agenda and the statement be postponed for the next session, please make a statement on this proposal. Of the 13-13 were present, without votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and abstentions. From Republika Srpska – 5 votes for, without votes against and abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, we have extended the statement on this agenda point for the next session, I hope that the Proposer will be at the next session. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the Information, so the point is 15. Ad. 15. Information on the activities of the BiH Market Control Agency, materials of the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 03/3-50-14-9-12-3/17 of 16.06.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3569	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable delegates. I am Samir Bekto, assistant director at the Bosnia and Herzegovina market surveillance agency. There was a presentation prepared, but because of this session that took so long, I'm going to try to make this information as short as possible. The market surveillance system in Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of Bosnia and Herzegovina's market surveillance agency, the Federal Inspectorate's Office, the Republic's Office for Inspection Affairs and the Inspectorate of the Brcko District. We are responsible for controlling the safety of non-food products on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. Every year, we plan and carry out proactive, or planned supervision of certain product groups and reactive surveillance based on complaints from consumers and information from the media. In 2016, the Agency implemented and controlled 251 product models with Entities and Brcko District inspectorates, of which 130 models were non-compliant. It's a figure, so, uncoordinated products 374,200 pieces. From this point of view, business entities have voluntarily or by order of the inspection bodies complied with the prescribed requirements of 366,929 pieces. Unfortunately, 7271 products with a serious consumer risk have been withdrawn from the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. Of that number of withdrawn products, 4854 pieces of 79 products have been destroyed. As regards the group of products with serious consumer risk, the most products found on the market are toys and electric products. As for the type of risk, the risk of injury and chemical risk are dominant in these reports. As far as the origins of the insecure products are concerned, we have established and every year it is repeated that about 80% of the insecure products are originating in China. In addition to this proactive and reactive surveillance, the Agency is working in areas of consumer protection, co-operation with business entities, media co-operation, etc. What was the topic and our proposal that we put on the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development is that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Agency controls only products placed on the market in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Inspectorate Agency has no jurisdiction, because the Market Surveillance Act does not specify that we control products at the border. So we have the border open and there's no control over product safety. As a result, the Agency launched an initiative with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and a new Market Oversight Act was established four years ago, which provides for controls on the safety of products at the border. Furthermore, since 2009, when the European Union's last directive was adopted, it is concerned with the adoption of European Union rules. We are now in a position for the European Union to adopt further regulations, improve consumer safety, and since 2009, we have been tapping in place. Here's what I'm going to do for two short examples. When a business operator imports a product into the market of Bosnia and Herzegovina and when the Inspectorate Agency discovers the product on the market by random controls or it happens that the business operator has already sold more than 50, 60, even in some cases 90% of the insecure products. Here, let me give you an example, recently, a business subject imported 3600 insecure gloves. When we checked, we discovered these insecure gloves and ordered the business operator to withdraw, or inspectorate. Unfortunately, the business operator sold most of these gloves and left only 95 to withdraw from the market. It's a devastating piece of information because there's no border control. Another thing, failure to adopt regulations, i.e. partial adoption at entity level without any agreement, is whether these regulations will be adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina or the units, but must be brought into line. What's going on now? For example, in the area, for example construction products, we have a situation that is originally planned for the law, i.e. the order on construction products to be adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It wasn't done. Laws were passed at entity level, however, those two laws are not, are not compatible. So both laws prescribe different obligations, i.e. requirements for construction products, different signs of conformity and different accompanying documentation. What does that mean from the aspect of our control, or sales from Republika Srpska to the Federation? It may occur that the product, a construction product manufactured in East Sarajevo, cannot be placed on the market in Sarajevo or vice versa because these two laws at entity level are not compatible. Our proposal was on the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, and I thank the Commission, which has made our problems clear, at that time we have sought to increase the resources for laboratory testing, to examine as much as possible and to increase the safety of our citizens and to improve them. Based on the Joint Commission's conclusions, the Ministry of Finance approved an increase in funding for laboratory testing and we now have 33,000 marks on the annual level, 70,000 marks for laboratory testing were planned for 2018. Thank you to the members of the Commission for Economic Reform and Development. The proposal was ours to continue through this information, to adopt European Union rules in the area of the security of non-food products in order for us to have a safe market and so that the Agency can successfully continue its work. Thank you. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3570	Thank you. He came to the hearing, and now I'm going to open the debate and Mr. Karamatić answered first, and then Mrs. Džambas. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3571	So I think neither I nor our colleagues deserve if we have on the agenda the information on the Agency's market surveillance activities, which we are receiving, that we don't deserve 7 minutes of having someone give us a lecture, a presentation, what the Agency does, what it does, what it does, and that it reads less what we get in the materials, with it being the wrong data, is not 80% of the products from China, but it's 79%. So, when you were learning by heart, you could learn that, too, one thing. The other thing, you're not visiting a high school, so to present to the students what your job is, we should know that if we've already got the materials. So, you had six and a half minutes of your address, you had exactly 38 seconds that weren't in these materials, and that was interesting to hear. This other, frankly, would have been smarter if you hadn't spoken, I'm going to vote now that I don't want to know about this Agency and this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3572	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. An emissary, Mrs. Džambas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3573	I'll do the opposite. I was, since I'm a member of this Committee for Economic Development, colleague Sifet, I don't know, Safet, I don't know who else is, and we've heard it out loud, on that Committee. And last time, at the last session, I asked a question -- what about the law that came into the drawer four years ago and never saw the light of day? It was done, so together with the International Community and that this alignment with the European Union is going, I don't remember what the number is now, and the minister, in a rather angry speech, told me that it is, that there is this law, but that politics is not willing to come out, to come to us. What politics, how I don't know, he just answered me like that and I wasn't satisfied with the answer, I don't know what policy. So it's about imports, the problem this agency has because it's chasing the shops, if anyone reports, that's how it has to work. If someone reports that something is wrong, then she sends those 11 to the Federation or 9, 9 maybe, the 9 inspectors they have in the Federation that all these malls and all the small- and large-scale shops are going to find out what needs to be withdrawn from the market. To me were the terrible data that you provided on our commission. Among other things, from these gloves, the kid's cream, I don't know, tricycles and everything, to the use of those baby dolls, they use girls who won't be able to be mothers in a while. That's the scary data we got on that board, but if it had this law, then control would be done at the border and then we don't have a problem. So, I got the answer, I asked, I followed this lead, I called the Agency, they politely answered me to see what we were going to do, but the answer was that politics, and I really don't know who, 81 policies aren't willing to adopt this law, so what's going to happen to you I don't know, but I'll definitely accept it because I really saw a broader explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3574	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. No more reports, closing the hearing. We this information, we need to be clear whether or not we're receiving it, so since I've closed the debate, we're now going to approach the plea. So, we are voting on the Information on the Agency's activities to monitor Bosnia and Herzegovina's market. From the 13 present – for there were 8.4 against, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Information on the activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's market surveillance agency has been received. I'm asking you now, colleagues and colleagues, to return to point number, I think 12. It is this, it is – The report on the work of the BiH Export Credit Agency Management Board, where the colleague Genjac had no less, no more than four conclusions. Can we get to the bottom of all the conclusions all of a sudden, here's what I suggest we do if there's no other way of thinking. _________(?) And what are the conclusions? Well, you've all been given conclusions. _________(?) And we got it, yeah. All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3584	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3585	Excuse me, it says here to Nedžim. _________(?) Nejma. And Nedžim writes. So, nedžom, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3587	Nejma.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3588	Nedžma Djanovic-Džanović-Mirašdžija, then Marinko Jurilj and Steva Pašalić members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. In line with the proposal for a single ranking of successful candidates for appointment provided by 84 temporary joint committee of both homes, we need to make known today about the appointment of members of the Management Board. I give the word to Mrs. Džambas, who is the chairman of this Interim Joint Commission and the rapporteur for the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3589	Eh, what we have in front of us now is the result, too, of a populist law that was passed here, and I didn't adopt members of HDZ, I don't know who yet, but I certainly haven't, which is that to everyone, but to everyone, so among other things, the Management Board for Higher Education has reduced it, that payment. So if they have a session they get 476 marks, if they have, and it's theirs, and I said I'd be boring, and I'll keep saying it, so it's their cost, it's their sleep, and it's all that. If they don't have that month's session, they don't have that money, and we're here, that's the law we passed. The result is this, with 25 prior to our application, this last one, which I am the rapporteur of, was sought in the fourth month of the competition by a Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, who must know that there are also members who must be permanent professors and there are those from the VSS. Three, Nedžma, Marinko and Stojan came forward and there were no regular professors among them, so the competition was repeated, which was not foreign to us because we had repeated it a year and a half before, and after that repeated, Semina Ajvaz and Stevo Pašalić appeared, and that was five applications, asking for three, Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak. When we came in full composition, so the Committee made up of the House of Peoples that you heard and from the House of Representatives, also representatives of all three peoples, there were six of us, we did an interview. On that interview of those five, come in four. And now you tell me how we will choose it, choose between one Srbin, between one Hrvat and between two Bošnjak. The terms of the competition have been met, so everything that has been requested has been met, among other things, there's going to be no criminal proceedings, that he hasn't broken, I don't know, there what The Hag, the court, the criminals, there-here, it's all fulfilled and we've joined the score. And you see how that turned out to be a score, let's say Nedžma got 91.6, on average we have the right to vote from 0 to 100 points, that Marinko Jurilj got 90 average votes and Stevo Pašalić 50. There were those who gave 10, there were those who gave 90, mostly the man got a total of 50, on average, votes. He was a House of Representatives, the House of Representatives accepted it, and now he came to the House of Peoples. So, all the conditions have been met, only what I complain about, that such committees have no choice because these conditions are set for members of the Management Board too difficult, so, science doctors, regular professors with a lot of published works get 476 marks to come here to Sarajevo at their expense, so we get pensioners or those who are close, because people really don't pay to get away and plus so devalued their work in an important area like the higher education that we know is standing in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's a report.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3590	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want a debate on this agenda? If there's no record of a hearing, then I'm closing the hearing. And, here, the College decided to vote separately here, so we're going to the first, then the second, and not the third, so. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3591	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3592	Well, here I am, this one. We had it at the College this morning and that's how it's done, but if you have a different proposal, of course we can, that one, we'll get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3593	There's no microphone involved... at least so tell us. Then go ahead, decide on a vote and let's get out of here. College, we'll be notified of that...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3594	Okay, thank you, I'll give you my word, be my guest, so we didn't judge anything. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3595	Madam Chairman, I think Mr Nović is right, but let's not discuss it, so let's ask some other questions. The House of Representatives voted in the package and chose all three, we barely got four candidates. Can it happen when we vote separately that one of them doesn't pass?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3596	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3597	That there's one nationality missing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3598	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3599	If we hadn't voted the same way as predstavnički, that we had kicked out one of the university professors who, right now we've heard, all of them top-notch regardless of the grades that the members of the Commission individually gave high or low. I don't think it's right, gentlemen of the chairman, and I think we should vote in the package, so if most people don't think they should be, don't be, and don't vote over this and about the individuals, because that's what we're going to get into the exact opposite of what the House of Peoples is and what we've already told at the previous points. So here's actually my request, let's vote in the package, those who are in favour, to vote in favour. Here I am, even though I don't know all of them, because I've been reading biographies and seeing what kind of people they're dealing with. Those who think that some of them don't deserve it, don't vote for the list as a whole, because it certainly won't work if we don't vote one of them, and the House of Representatives has chosen all three. Thank you. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3600	Thank you. Mr. Babalj, uh, wants a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3601	I'm not going to discuss this, I think he has every right to his opinion, so do I. I just want to remind everyone here that they should always be consistent on the same issues. Well, you remember when we had Drnda, so my interesting last name was, like, one like that. And then we didn't mind, did we? You want me to give you more examples? So let's cut it once, so we can do it like this, and we can cut it anyway. And then we voted differently, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3602	Thank you. A colleague, Tadić, checked in, first deputy. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3603	Short, therefore, a reminder. In practice, this House has been in the last two terms, I know earlier, I think, that it was the same situation, that when it came to these decisions, so everyone's personality was shared, appreciated, or, individually, never made a package on any of these issues, it wasn't even the case when there were others, I don't know, I can't compare now the importance, but much more important, let's just say, I don't know cases, like the Independent Committee or, I know, somewhere where there's really some key policy and stuff like that going on. So, there's no indication that there's any precedent being made here through all of this. Secondly, it is entirely right if there is a parliamentary majority, therefore, that it also runs human policy. I don't know if you missed it, but the political option under which Mr. Babalj and I went to the election is called the Alliance for Change, so not the Alliance for the same. There are also political changes within the Union for Change. Why? Well, because I don't think one part of the people did their job right. So now let's open the topic of higher education here will all jump up and talk about how the situation is disastrous, how this is, how it is. Well, for all those responsible people, please. If someone was a mandate or two member of this Management Board, and there is no positive effect, as one of the candidates was, and then with a set of different circumstances, as Mrs. Džambas said, in some summer period, whether there is only one application and what happens to us doesn't mean that we're being blackmailed, because we don't answer here for deadlines whether it was August and other things, we're responsible for human resources. It may be okay for you to go public and say – we think the situation in education is bad, but we chose the same people to do the same job again. We're not and there's no condescending, no personal evaluation, no beauty, no reference to how many scientific papers have been published by other things. This is politics, as you would tomorrow change me or the fifth, to make a change. So what would you say, would you say maybe – Ognjen correctly here worked, there were no fights, in difficult conditions, although he did not have most in the House of Nations, in his Club he provided, along with all of us, a kind of harmony and co-operation. Well, you wouldn't say, but you would change me, of course. So also, so also some candidates who appeared here as representatives of 87 specific policies, so they can't be representatives of some other policy now, because we got trust because that policy wasn't good. Well, you don't think there's any way someone's blackmailing us into acting differently? Well, there isn't, if we have most of it. If we don't have a majority, then we don't have a chance to suggest human resources solutions anymore, then that's not the problem with one of the proposed ones, that's the general problem. So I call, as the College has suggested, in accordance with its practice, to vote separately on all names. I don't think it's the change that we're responsible for when it comes to Republika Srpska personnel if the man who's done this job so far and we don't see it, we don't even see publicly that he's protested over the state of higher education, that he's done it, and we all know that the state of higher education and we're not satisfied with him, so, no matter what circumstances, we're not satisfied with it, that again trust and wastes time. Is this something unprincipled? It's completely principled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3604	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Is anyone else picking up? It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3605	Ljilja.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3606	Two minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3607	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3608	Take two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3609	You're looking for a break. How much?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3610	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3611	Ah, well, we can, we can. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] To get out of this, let's say, uh, the situation that is the way it is, I still think we should give the House a statement on how we're going to plead, no matter what the College suggested. I will first give this one, therefore, to declare that proposal to the College. If that goes away, then we will plead individually. If, of course, it doesn't pass then we don't have to make a statement about what counterpart Radmanović suggested. Then of course it goes 88 by, uh, we're going to a statement together, so, about all the candidates, if we don't pass this first proposal. Do you understand our proposal now? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3614	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3615	So, I'm going to give it first to make a statement, I'm going to make a proposal on how we're going to plead, whether we're going to do it individually or unitedly on three candidates. Here you go, Mr. Halida. Did you want to take this? Come on. Well, here you go, come on. Help, just don't, don't add us.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3616	The Rules of Procedure have the right to offer authentically. [[Disable microphone]] So, you've proposed to vote individually, it's not against the Rules of Procedure or against the law. If someone has a second proposal, as we had a proposal, it is the proposal and votes on it, and what you have announced as a lead, it is not necessary to vote on it, but if someone has another proposal that does not agree with the Chairman's proposal, then the vote proposal has passed, and if it does not pass, it is how the chairman intended it. I mean, it's now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3617	Okay, I understand you, you're saying you don't need to plead. I thought it wasn't, uh, crucial what we said at the College this morning, but that Dom pleaded. But then, I understood you and it was your suggestion to make a statement about Mr. Radmanović's proposal, I understood it that way. Right? Okay. Start the vote. Here I'll be restrained, come on, there'll be plenty of votes. [[Shortly disabled microphone]] There's no general majority. So now we have to go to a separate vote. I am asking you now to go, we are voting on the appointment of the first candidate from the list of successful candidates for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. 89 Should I read on who it's about? I think you're getting to know each other, so we can make a statement. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3620	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3621	What? 90
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3622	No microphone of the matching commission is included... short-circuited microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3623	Okay. Uh, here's a proposal from Mr. Genjac, given that it's different, so it's done in one home and another. Only I don't know how you can agree...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3624	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3625	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3626	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3627	Okay, well, let's suggest, if you're looking for it, let's propose right now at today's session of our members, so, the Committee, from the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3628	Well, the best of these members of the Commission who were, they know. So, Softić, Zdenka and Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3629	Go ahead and say it. Who are you proposing?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3630	No microphone included Some business dilemmas exist, business dilemmas exist
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3632	...and if someone is not chosen from both homes, he is automatically unchosen. Now, a new competition needs it. I mean, that's why I'm withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-09-28-0.u3633	All right, Mr. Genjac, thanks for that, too. 91 Let's go to point 18, that's Ad. 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend the election legislation of BiH, No 02-34-1-746/17 since 28/09/2017. You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group to amend electoral legislation. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone getting word for it? There are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. We are voting on a proposal for a conclusion on the amendment of the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Amendment of the Election Law of BiH. [[Common discussion]]
