ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21705	We continue immediately with the 54th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, meaning for today. The 54th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives opens. Guests are invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who regularly monitor the work of our House and media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The Human Rights Minister's Office has come to inform us that Minister Semiha Borovac will be prevented from attending the House session, and that instead of the minister, Deputy Predrag Jović will be present. The Office of Communications and Transport has received a notice that Minister Ismir Jusko will not be able to participate in the session, and that instead of the minister, he will be Deputy Saša Dalipagić. Deputy Justice Minister Nezir Pivić delivered a notice that Justice Minister Josip Grubeša will not be able to attend the session. Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak delivered a notice that he will not be able to attend the session. From the Office of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, word came that Minister Mirko Šarović will not be able to attend the session. According to the Service's data, 40 MPs are present at the moment, I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are in line with the order of arrival, and the MPs will present them with this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Agent Denis Bećirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21706	Thank you. I recall, therefore, that the state parliament, more precisely the House of Representatives, adopted last year a proposal relating to the adoption of a special Law on the award of the Earth Anti-fascist Council of People's Liberation of BiH, i.e. ZAVNOBiH, the proposal or the initiative passed all the procedure and finally adopted here in the House of Representatives. According to what he concluded, the BiH Council of Ministers' House of Representatives had an obligation to prepare and to refer such a proposal to parliament within no more than three months. We are witnessing that it has expired for a year, and we do not have information about it yet, so my question has been addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers to give us an exact answer to what has been done about this initiative that was adopted here at the House of Representatives. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21707	I'd like to thank the representative. The answer, chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Minister of Civil Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21708	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the College, distinguished MPs and chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow ministers. Acting upon the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Justice established a Working Group for the drawing of the draft law on the award of the BiH National Liberation Earth Anti-Fascist Council – ZAVNOBiH, which was part of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. Given that it is a regulation of which matter belongs to the administrative and professional affairs of the related area of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the BiH Ministry of Justice has submitted the subject, the draft law in the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in order to end the activities on the implementation of the Council of Ministers' conclusion. Given that the Council of Ministers appointed the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs in June this year as an authorised processor The proposal for a Law on the National Liberation of BiH Earth Antifascist Council award was submitted by the Civil Affairs Ministry to the opinion: the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports, the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska, the Office for Law, the Directorate for European Integration, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH. Opinions from the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, Directorate for European Integration, the Office for Law, the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports have so far been produced, in the public consultation process, there have been no comments on the proposed law. The ministry expects the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska where we sent the emergency several times, but so far we have not received an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21709	I thank the minister. Representative's comment. You don't want to, thank you very much. We are moving on to the question of MPs, or colleagues of Mladen Bosić. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21710	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and concerns the realization of the conclusions of the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly discussed and received information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina at its 49th session, held on 05.07.2017 with special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption. The House of Representatives also adopted conclusions in charge of the Council of Ministers to prepare and submit amendments to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH and other laws related to the area within 120 days. The question is – Why are the conclusions of the House of Representatives not respected? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21711	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21712	I welcome the distinguished members of the College, the distinguished representatives and MPs, respected colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, media and guests. So immediately after this conclusion, which was adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers practically concluded at its next session, that a new comprehensive, integrated draft law was being drawn up and that one working group would be composed of all relevant representatives in co-operation with the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. The institutions are responsible for the draft law of preparation in line with the suggestions tabled during the debate at the Council of Ministers' session, in line with the opinion of the Venice Commission, the recommendations made by the European Commission in the Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Progress and in the final recommendations of the Structured Dialogue on Justice between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, individual levels of government, or institutions, such as the Ministry of Justice of Republika Srpska did not give or appoint their representatives, while at the same time the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council requested a certain deadline to prepare its positions, its platforms, or its proposal to nominate the VSTV Act, which would be their starting point for working in the working group to prepare this normative act. So, despite the more urgent and by the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of Justice, we have not yet received an integrated text of legislation that would include the opinions of all previous institutions, and I think the basic reason in the fact that we have not, in principle, had productive meetings of structured dialogue that should lead to a new law in this area. We have predicted within our programme of work already in the third quarter, i.e. the furthest quarter, that this Law will be addressed by the Ministry of Justice to the Council of Ministers, but we have not yet received such text.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21713	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. A fellow deputy, a representative comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21714	I must say to the chairman that I am not satisfied with your response, I think it is scandalous that the Council of Ministers does not propose a new Bill on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council after a very high-quality debate at the House of Representatives on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary and conclusions that the level and degree of corruption in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the main brake in all segments of society to move forward. Here we discussed that the problem is not so much in individuals but is a problem in a system that can't function normally like this and that they need changes in the system, or changes in the law. By not making a proposal for any law, you have put yourself in the position of those who want to keep this state and beyond, I ask you, and I do not see that there is any purpose, to reconsider your responsibility and responsibility for the Council of Ministers for the situation around the judiciary unsatisfactory and for the situation of enormous and destructive corruption. I hope 4 you will take responsibility, because you have responsibility this was not, it was not a question of the minister of justice, this was a question addressed to you, this is not just a question for the minister of justice, this is a question for the whole society, and especially for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21715	Thank you. I give my word to President Jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21716	I thank the Honorable Chairman. For the continuity of action and follow-up of activities on the revitalisation, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the European railway route E 751 on a section known as the UN railway, I am asking this question to the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, which is – at which stage is the implementation of the Joint Initiative launched by the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, Minister Ismir Jusko and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia Oleg Butković, and in relation to the renewal, modernisation and transport of the Union railway? In this brief explanation of the issue I would like first to stress that I was very pleased when I received the information that the respected Minister of Jusko has launched official institutional activities to revitalise this priority railway direction which, unfortunately, has not been objectively valorised all these past years, and lacked the interest of the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina to treat its importance in a fair way for overall economic development in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially for the northwestern part of our country. In the past, however, attempts were made to specify and objectively look at the infrastructure investments necessary for the establishment of transport on this railway route throughout its length, but everything remained only on an attempt without significant results. By signing the Joint Initiative in Zagreb in May of this year, the competent ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia express their position on the importance of the Union railway for both countries, which gives confidence that they will finally continue their activities in its revitalisation institutionality. I also remind you that this House at the 51st session adopted a Declaration in which it called on competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia to include in the National Strategy for the Development of Railway Traffic Union railway as an interstate rail project in order to create conditions for the provision of financing, revitalisation [[the speaker is warned on time]] this key rail corridor for both countries. [[the speaker is warned on time]] In order for this important topic and this priority infrastructure project not to be neglected, I would like to keep this issue in mind, and I ask you to share information in front of the ministry on the current activities carried out in accordance with that joint initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21717	Answer, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21718	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Members of the College, the Honorable Representatives, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I will answer Emrić's asked question as follows, at the 120th session of the BiH Council of Ministers on 9.11.2017, the Council of Ministers discussed and adopted the information on the activities of the implementation of the Joint Initiative of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia signed in Zagredo on 11/05/2017, and on the same information, it concluded that the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH had tasked with preparing a proposal for a decision to appoint a joint operating body from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and directed it to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption. At the request of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, proposals were submitted for the names of representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's railway public corporation, the Federal Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Public Companies of the Federation of BiH, the Ministry of Transport and the links between Republika Srpska and the Republika Srpska Railways, which will participate in the work of the joint operational body from Bosnia and Herzegovina. The draft decision is under way to ask the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration and adoption, it will be addressed in the next period. In accordance with that conclusion, the task of the joint operational body is to develop a detailed analysis of the current situation, and to develop elaborates for the renewal, modernisation and placing on the market of the Union railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21719	I thank the Deputy Minister. Does the representative want to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21720	Thank you for your response. I am satisfied with the content of the response, but I note that the Council of Ministers should act more quickly in order not to waste too much time in these formal procedures, as it seems to me that the conclusion at the Joint Meeting of both governments was to appoint a body that would lead to further activities and concrete analyses necessary for the revitalisation of the Union railway. I would also like to emphasise that there is a need to work parallelly on the electrification of the Union railway, which I understand is not in the ministry's jurisdiction but is within the competence of the Public Undertaking of the Federation of BiH, but since the Federation Railways have already asked the question of what has been done in this year by the Federation's infrastructure capacity Investment Plan for 2017 as well as certain investments in telecommunications and signalling security facilities. I have not yet received an answer, which I expect in still reasonable time, and I hope that finally in this year something more significant has been done to electrify the Union Strip. This would be my briefest comment and I will continue to follow this very important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21721	Thank you. 6 Ambassador Safer Demirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21722	I thank the esteemed chairman. I welcome, of course, you and everyone present in this room and my question is also addressed to the Ministry of Communications and Transport, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but here's his deputy, so hopefully the answer. So, the question is: Is it also, if it is, at what stage of making changes and supplementing sublegal acts on the basis of which an emergency transport is prescribed and carried out, or the transport of extra-gabarit goods, these are goods of over 60 tonnes in Bosnia and Herzegovina territory? One brief explanation, the carriers involved in this transport, meaning they had one meeting from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina and in 2015 launched an initiative to amend these sublegislative acts in order to regulate them at least as is the case in the EU countries, i.e. in our environment. In particular here is meant to simplify the issue of permits, organise escorts, the amount of compensation needed to produce project documentation etc. etc. So, I'm interested in whether you've launched certain activities and at what stage is it if it is?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21723	Answer, Ministry of Communications.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21724	I thank the honourable representative for asking. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport's initiative is familiar with certain problems that follow the area of extra-gabaritic goods transport. The initiative sets out in detail and systematically the problems and causes of their existence, and proposes solutions to the country in the environment. I stress that the regulations in force in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been passed by entities, so the ministry does not have direct jurisdiction. It is a matter of determining the compensation for carrying out extra-gabaritic transport and issuing licences, organising an escort for... transport and the like, it is a matter of using transport infrastructure in carrying out extraordinary transport. In the next period, the Ministry will organise a meeting with the competent authorities and present these problems and make proposals for their systematic resolution. The ministry will seek through a co-ordination role to ensure compliance of the rules governing this area with the rules in force in the countries in the environment and in the EU countries. From the initiative itself, it is clear that there is room for certain improvements to facilitate business for businesses in this area, facilitate business, and the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport will take measures to consider and implement proposals and initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21725	Thank you. The apostle has the right to answer. Here you go, Mr. Demirović. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21726	I thank you, of course, for this answer, but here's the orderly size just to get to know those, one such transport from France to the Gacko Termo power plant costs 23,000 euros, and from Slavonski Brod, this part costs 16,000 euros through Bosnia and Herzegovina. So nearly 2/3 of that total transport, the costs of transporting extra-gabarit goods, our carriers spend through Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to this other part of the road. I would ask you, of course, to include in these activities the initiative triggers, their representatives, since they come from both entities, so that they too may be familiar with where this problem is and where the addresses are where they should be addressed. And of course I'd like an answer in writing to be delivered to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21727	Thank you. Ambassador Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21728	Dear Chairman, esteeming the time and today's commitments to the House of Representatives, we hold two sessions, my question is a little longer, but it concerns the use of SIPA at the demands of cantonal prosecutors. With an explanation, I must say, to the satisfaction that I have already received a written response from SIPA management, and I would commend the efficiency and speed of the response, so I am satisfied with the answer. If the Minister of Security has something to comment on, it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21729	There's no need. Thank you. Ambassador Mirsad Đonlagić, he has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21730	Thank you, Mr. Bosić. So my question was addressed to the Minister of Transport and Communications after learning that the airport in Sarajevo does not operate after ten o'clock in the evening. In view of the septic circumstances, it was a team of Russia that played here against Bosnia and Herzegovina for the first time I heard of the problem, it was incomprehensible to me that one of the capitals of the country that has the ambition to be a member of the EU has an airport that doesn't work after 22:00 hours and in that sense I ask the question of the Ministry of Transport and Communications – What is the reason for it, whether it is technical, insufficient technical equipment, is it the incompetence of people working at the airport or are there some other reasons there present, and what should be done to remove this lack, in my view, completely unacceptable? I don't know you want to give it away, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21731	Thank you. The Ministry of Communications and Transport. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21732	Thank you to Honorable representative Đonlagić for asking the question. According to the information available from Sarajevo International Airport, Sarajevo's official working hours are every day from 5:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., in the winter period it is so-called. Winter flight order, and from 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. in the summer period so-called. Summer flight order. According to information written at the Ministry of the International Airport of Sarajevo, working hours are determined by the business policy of Luke, but also by the legal solutions under which the Airport operates, which deal with noise protection issues, human environment protection and other issues. A more complete answer to the question of the esteemed representative, Đonlagić, may be provided by the Ministry after it has received full information on the reasons for such working time, which has been requested by the Sarajevo Airport, the Government of Canton of Sarajevo, the Government of the Federation of BiH, in whose jurisdiction are laws dealing with the area of noise protection, human environment protection, or laws governing the operations of the International Airport of Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21733	Commentary, MP Đonlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21734	Thank you for your response. Of course, I understand this problem, so it's not about the continuing need, it's about extraordinary circumstances and controversial needs that took 12 days and a dozen consents to solve this problem. I think it can be predicted in legal acts that in the event of a need, of course, with the compensation of the costs incurred by the team, this problem can be solved precisely by these institutions that are competent, regardless of the grounds mentioned, on the basis of which these legal acts took place. Thank you, and I'm asking you to provide me with that reply in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21735	Thank you. MP Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was raised long ago, addressed to the foreign ministry, and I asked for a report on the effects of Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic diplomacy in the period of office from 2014 to today, and I also asked for a full report on the economic diplomacy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the previous term of office from 2010 to 2014, which I requested in my previous term as a delegate in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and for which I asked for it to be delivered in writing. I received two answers to the parliamentary question and I know to which part I will refer depending on what the Ministry's representative will tell me, it will be my representative's comment. I believe that economic diplomacy is of crucial importance for the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that what should be the focus of our activities in terms of foreign affairs, of course and with the preservation and democratisation of the Bosnian Herzegovina society and the display of its values outside and representing the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but personally 9 I believe that, in the past term, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not addressed itself in this area of economic diplomacy in order to improve the standards of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in terms of the presentation of our products on the market, so that, on the market of the European Union and the world. So I'd like to hear an answer from the foreign ministry, and then I'd like to make my comment afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21737	Is there a Ministry representative or someone in charge? There's no one here. MPs, you have the right to wait for one of the next sessions and ask for a reply from the Ministry's representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21738	I only if...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21739	Here, if you'd like, I think we'd like to keep the comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21740	I beg your pardon, that the chairman of me only two sentences I want to say, I will leave, therefore, the possibility of commenting for the next time the foreign minister's representative appears, I think it is absolutely incorrect that he is not here today, but I want to say that I am not satisfied with either the first or the second version of the answer that I am, let me answer the question that I have asked, what I have received is not an answer to the parliamentary question, even underestimating the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21741	Thank you. Ambassador Hazim Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21742	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my question is for the Secretary of Security. At the end of 2016, the Border Police were working on amendments to the Regulation on the Internal Organisation of the Border Police, the Commission for Defence and Security had one presentation in the Border Police for the construction of that Regulation, so I am interested in – until it was reached with the drafting of the Border Police Regulation, was it possibly adopted and agreed by the Council of Ministers and, if adopted, was it applicable, and were the observations made by the Joint Defence and Security Commission during that presentation included in that Regulation? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21743	Thank you. Minister Mektić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21744	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how this happened, probably for some technical reasons, that I didn't get these questions, no questions came into my office. So, I know some information, but I know that no regulation has been adopted, I know that it has not come to me proposal for that regulation, but I couldn't give you a concrete answer about the details now, which is why and at what stage it is, and if you don't mind, I will quickly provide you with an answer to this parliamentary question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21745	Thank you. poslanik Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21746	Thank you very much. Here, therefore, at the time of the call of this session, at the time of the Rules of Procedure, 14.11.2017, the question at our Office was, where I announced that at the beginning of this session, I would ask the question. So, it's neatly set, neatly protocold, why didn't I come in, I don't know, I'm going to beg a written answer, and otherwise, it would have been normal, and this might be one initiative, if we had all that stuff back and back in the power of the Defense and Security Commission, because a year ago we had activity, we had some observations, and from then on, here until today, and again it's December, there's nothing about it. It would therefore be very important to discuss this issue at the Defence and Security Commission as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21747	Thank you. We'll ask the secretary to check on the delivery and let you know if it was forwarded in time. The word has an MP, Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21748	Thank you very much. My question is – How much is the average wage in the public sector, and how much in the real sector for the period 2014, '15. And '16. A year in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21749	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Zvizdić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21750	Thank you very much, thank you for asking. I will present these data to you, although we are, of course, not able to and are not monitored in accordance with international standards of average net wages divided only in these two sectors, in the public and private sectors, but the Statistical Agency of BiH publishes data on average gross and net wages according to the areas of classification of activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is and is comparable to the classification of the activities of the United Nations and the classification of the European Union. But we have prepared for you a table that is well structured, it has, therefore, everything, a complete classification, I will just read you some information that speaks of having a complete, completely detailed answer to your question. Here it is, here's a table that talks about data in '14, '15. And in '16, I'll read just for '16. So, in the area of agriculture, forestry and fishing, gross salary is for, in '16. A year, it was 1,300 marks, and a net of 838. In the processing industry gross 911, net 610, in construction gross 815, net 540, in financial activities and insurance activities gross 2,186, net 1,380, in the area, for example, professional, scientific, technical activities gross 1.423, net 912, in the field of administrative and auxiliary services gross 817, and net 533, public administration and compulsory social security gross 1.878, net 1.194, in the education of gross 1.338 net 856 or, for example, in health care and social protection activities gross 1.657, net 1,056. But here you have 20 structured activities and you have gross and net wages for '14, '15. And '16. A year and we will deliver it to you, except for the oral response, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21751	Commentary, Ambassador Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21752	I thank the chairman. I don't, therefore, have numbers that are immutable, they are who they are. Uh, I was more offered the reason that, as this classification also says, we have lower salaries in the real sector and slightly unprotected workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, I know whose jurisdiction it is, I'm not saying that to accuse someone here, but the fact is that we have companies that report large profits, and workers in their companies pay very modestly and are completely unprotected when it comes to labour prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21753	Thank you. Ambassador Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21754	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers – has the BiH Council of Ministers done anything concrete in this mandate and what is it planning to do in 2018 to make a population policy in BiH? One brief explanation, we are probably the only country, especially here in the region that does not work on the planning and future of the development of its population. So we don't have any documents in 12 senses of document, discussion, we don't have any concrete work, we don't waste time, it's evident, on these topics, we don't have to talk about how many people are, I think people are the greatest resource of every society, so it should be our own. You know that here, in this here is the mandate, especially now, for three years, I have been asking that the agenda point be placed – Information on the negative trend of leaving people from BiH, especially the departure of young people from BiH. So far, in three years, we haven't found it appropriate to put it on the agenda and talk about it. So, now, given the point of the agenda that I'm going to talk about later, my question right now is this of the Council of Ministers chairman and to see what we want in that sense and we can do to answer this, I would say, one of the most important questions in the country. So, we are clearly not the subject of the number of births, how they live, the status and the condition in which they are born and how they live, the rights of maternity, one completely unequal condition is the right of maternity care in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about protecting families, about the rights of students, about some child's incomes and supplements that we are not talking about, so these are, in my opinion, the topics that the Council of Ministers needed and had to answer to so far, should have and had to have some concrete, I would say, an act... and then to say something more.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21755	Chairman... Minister...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21756	Thank you, Chairman. Population policy is a policy aimed at harmonising demographic image, number, structure and population distribution. Various measures of this policy include creating assumptions for reducing population migration trends, increasing the ability to hire citizens, ensuring conditions for favourable lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, reducing imbalances in the development of certain areas, ensuring the availability of education, ensuring quality of traffic connection between settlements, i.e. infrastructure works, resolving housing issues, especially young people and families with children, promoting socially responsible business, increasing the capacity of childcare facilities and additional health services, activating counselling for young population educations, etc. Statistical indicators of demographic and social statistics and the natural movement of the population in Bosnia and Herzegovina deal with the BiH Statistics Agency. A significant number of measures mentioned in the fields of labour, employment, social protection, pensions, education and health care are within the authority of the entity and Brcko District of BiH and the canton of the Federation of BiH. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is currently the coordinator of activities on the development of a sectoral plan paper on employment, education and social policy, which plans to continue to be reformed in relation to the area in question, with a view to running projects for IPA 2. Also, the BiH Council of Ministers is being submitted for the adoption of an annual plan on labour market policies and active employment measures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which were planned by competent state and entity institutions in the field of employment. An initiative has been launched to develop a employment strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the next four-year period, and the International Labour Organization has drawn up the first draft to be agreed on. These activities in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Civil Affairs create conditions for the creation of a population policy in which a key role must be played by statistical agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21757	Thank you. 13 MPs comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21758	So the fact is we have nothing, right? The fact is that the Council of Ministers and the fact is that the state government on this issue does not co-ordinate essentially anything. So we expect someone from below to deliver something, we expect someone else to do our job, we expect to talk about the jurisdiction that we don't have here at this level. So, I'm, you remember when we talked about the issue, here's the question, for three years we haven't had the subject -- the departure of people from BiH, there's no discussion opening up to help the Council of Ministers, because this discussion in Parliament would help you and give you more jurisdiction and opportunities, and rights and obligations, to collect what you need. It was the same approach when we talked about protecting farmers. So, you know what the role is and what the Civil Service needs to do, what the government needs to do. So there's no population policy, there's no answer. We've got something we'll be waiting for from the canton. So in this sense, I urge you, take a proactive role, you have the right, you have the opportunity, to support as Council of Ministers Members who insist on allowing you to have more opportunities and more rights, but this topic really has to come to the agenda. We will most likely have this initiative tomorrow, which I expect most parliamentarians will finally be positive about, to have a special debate in Parliament in which we will speak openly with all the information, proposals, measures, what to do to stop the negative trend of leaving people from BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21759	Thank you. Ambassador Salko Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21760	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's my question from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. One brief explanation, based on the BiH Council of Ministers' Decision, the obligations of GSM operators, namely the universal mobile licenses, for universal mobile telecommunications systems were met at the end of 2015. According to the Decision amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers' Decision on the way and distribution of funds paid on behalf of the universal mobile telecommunications system granted from 2013, the funds are directed at 15% to the development of the telecommunications sector and 85% to finance the preparation and construction of road infrastructure. In the period 2011-2015, 13.200,000 on behalf of the development of the telecommunications sector were not made available to the user in 2016 because no decision was taken, a special decision by the Council of Ministers, but was carried over on purpose in 2017. My question is in line with the above, I ask the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers – why has the decision on the allocation of GSM funds not been made to the operators so far and is this how the development of the telecommunications system in Bosnia and Herzegovina is prevented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21761	Thank you. 14 Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21762	Thank you, of course, for asking. As you know, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport signed individual contracts with three telecom operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the terms and manner of settlement of obligations based on an allotted permit for universal mobile and telecommunications systems, on the basis of previous decisions of the BiH Council of Ministers. This decision, as you stated in your question, defined that the financial resources mentioned, 15% of the total amount, will be directed towards the development of the telecommunications sector, and the purpose of the special decisions is confirmed by the Council of Ministers at the proposal of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and we will, for a long time, work to prepare the decisions ourselves, the allocation of funds and by the end of this year, and the Ministry will propose, and the Council of Ministers will decide on the allocation of remaining funds for the development of the Telecommunications Sector and their concrete projects. Of course, no one's intention is to challenge their development in any way, on the contrary, to speed up and encourage the complete sector to coordinate its procedures, its development, the level of innovation projects with what is happening in Europe and in the region, and especially by digitising the broadcasting of public TV services in Bosnia and Herzegovina should release the frequency band currently used for analogue broadcasting of the programme. It enables the development of mobile networks of the fourth generation, i.e. the development of telecommunications and services sectors based on new generation networks. Therefore, of course, we can only talk about supporting further development in the telecommunications sector, and the decision and the funds themselves will be adopted and distributed by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21763	Thank you. Commentary, MP Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21764	Okay, thank you. I am not satisfied with the response of the Council of Ministers Chairman, because his answer to my question is also a finding of an existing state. So, I haven't seen except hypothetically, is that, at some point, it'll be realized. This is the third year of the term of office, and it has been expected that during this period, this already longer period of time, frozen funds, this one, defrosted conditionally and directed towards telecommunications systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus to improve their work and make them competitive, is it? When it's going to be seen, but what's particularly worrying me, here's if someone follows the questions I'm asking, I always sort of define the question in the direction of those funds lying there, they don't get laid, they're frozen, and we have a constant need. to be in charge, to provide new funds, to ask the International Monetary Fund for funding, in a way. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here I hope that, uh, in the next fiscal year, will, uh, the obligation to be completed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you, I apologize to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21765	Thank you. 15 MP Hanko Vajzović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21766	Thank you, Madam Chairman, I warmly welcome you all. The issue was addressed to Minister Mektić, and not only to the Ministry of Security but even more agencies and bodies, the Border Police were sent to the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Commission for Integrated Border Management. The issue concerns border protection and cross-border traffic control under the circumstances of the release into circulation of the new border crossing that the Republic of Croatia began to build in the Doljans about two years ago, ended it a month ago and suddenly, unannounced in fact, as well as the Croatian media say, opened it perhaps a little over a month ago. Since the new location of the border crossing of Doljani was set 700 meters within the Republic of Croatia, so in the middle of Metkovic, our border crossing remained more than one km from the border line, so about 1,800 meters is a distance, I asked to be answered. First – Did the construction of the new Doljani border crossing at that location, in Metkovic, now and its release into the market precede the placing on the market of Annex II of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at border crossing points, and b) or was it a unilateral act of the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, it had the right to announce from 6 months earlier? The second question was – In the new circumstances, what were the Ministry of Security and the competent agencies involved in integrated border management aimed at : (a) border security concerns, (b) concrete exercise of cross-border traffic control, especially in view of this uncovered safety belt? I'll have a chance to comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21767	You'll have your chance, thank you. Minister Mektić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21768	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs. The BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded Annex II of the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossings on the common area at the Doljani-Metkovic border crossing. The Treaty's annex defines that Annex is concluded indefinitely, and each party contracted may cancel it in writing, diplomatically and by diplomatic means, with a six-month notice. The BiH Security Ministry is not officially familiar with or available with the information on the cancellation of Annex II to the Treaty. By moving the Metkovici border crossing, the Republic of Croatia to a new location on 09.11. In 2017, the Doljani Border Police Unit continued to carry out border control and control tasks under the Border Control Act. Also, police officers of the Doljani Border Police Unit in the framework of regular affairs and tasks oversee the space between those border crossings. Given that it is a frequency border crossing, especially during the summer season, BiH Border Police are making maximum use of all technical options related to cross-border control in accordance with 16 available personnel capacities in the service. The Doljani-Metkovic border crossing, in line with Aneks ii, of the Treaty already mentioned, used a common location by Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia's border services in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For the purposes of the border services of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the border crossing of the Doljani, two containers are provided which do not satisfy the conditions laid down in the current Regulation on standards and conditions of construction and equipment of border crossings are provided. In view of this fact as well as the fact that the BiH Direct Taxation Authority is responsible for ensuring infrastructure conditions for the smooth functioning of border services at border crossing points, as well as the fact that an annual traffic of about a million passengers at this border crossing was planned by the Authority for 2018 to build a new international border crossing across the Doljani. The funds for this purpose were planned and presented in the 2018 budget application in the process of planning for the construction of the new Malian crossing of Doljani the consent of the Border Police to carry out security checks and control of passengers has been obtained. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It is important to note that the Croatian Border Service no longer uses the location of the Doljani border crossing after the completion of the construction of the Metkovici border crossing and that is the answer. [[the speaker is warned on time]] If you'll excuse me one more sentence, I'm sorry, I've contacted my own, but it's still coming, there's an oral question for Mr. Rančić, so if he can, I'll deliver this question to you, so if there's any... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21769	Thank you. Cometer, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21770	Thank you very much. I asked this same question a little over a year and a half ago and I got an amazing answer, very similar to that read by Minister Mektić, and now I get that read before the session begins, so no one knows anything again. No Niko will say that, let's say, we were not explicitly informed by the Croatian side, and so they gave up the Treaty of Common Crossing. If it wasn't the corner where it was naked, it would be seen, I was told they knew nothing, they didn't know, they weren't officially notified, and apparently they didn't ask anyone themselves. I'm talking about our agencies, the services that are in charge. The question is not harmless at all, therefore, the problem is not harmless at all, especially if we keep in mind the statements and the director of the Border Police who spoke last year, that the capacities are really very scarce, that I don't know, one policeman comes 30 kilometers away, etc. So this tampon, and only if you let me add that the Croatian media have also written about this problem on my question at the time, has written about this problem because in this buffer zone, this could be said to be a gray zone, a significant number of inhabitants, a local population that is practically, is practically grunting in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and they are lying administratively there So, there's a problem, but here's the thing, nobody knows anything, and next time I get answers like that. [[the speaker is warned on time]] It's not Minister Mektić, thank him anyway for his reply. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21771	Thank you. Ambassador Mensura Beganović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21772	I thank the chairman, and welcome all present. My question is addressed to the Minister of Security, or to the Ministry of Security, but as the minister is present today, I am pleased that he will be able to answer this question, it is about the information presented in the Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2016, and it is precisely in point 12.1. that discusses the criminal acts of stealing motor vehicles. The above data clearly show that only 126 motor vehicles were estranged in the Federation of BiH in 2016, in Republika Srpska. I mean, I'm glad it's not anymore, but I'm sorry it's a lot here. Do you have any reasonable explanation, I ask you, Mr. Minister, for this disproportionateity in the number of criminal parts of the theft of motor vehicles between entities, and especially if the largest number of estranged cars reported in the Canton of Sarajevo area? Is there any information available on the perpetrators of these crimes from the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska? Are these two entities concerned with the protection of data on motor vehicle owners? I'm just going to briefly explain why I think this is something I need to deal with. So, the difference between, as seen in this Information, between stolen cars in the Federation and Republika Srpska is seven times more, seven times more in the Federation, although I do not know where to, where to direct my suspicion. The largest number of stolen cars in Sarajevo is 554, 62% of the total number stolen from the Federation. When I get down to business days, it's about 2.6 stolen cars a day, working day, I guess criminals don't work on weekends, I hope, and holidays. The information states that for 897 criminal parts of the theft of motor vehicles, only 86 people were reported in the Federation. Is it only BiH Federation citizens who committed these acts? There is no such information for Republika Srpska, or they are not known. And finally, I don't think it's relevant, I think it's very important to talk about it openly, the entity ministries, so the MUPs, are responsible for protecting the data on the owners of motor vehicles, but it's a public secret that criminal parts of the theft of motor vehicles are available data on owners, names, last name, addresses Then it's no longer a problem to get a phone, not even a cell phone, phone number. [[the speaker is warned on time]] What did the DOJ do to prevent this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21773	Thank you. Minister Mektić, is there an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21774	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21775	Come on, if you can get a pay phone. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21776	Thank you. I am, since it is not the original jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security of this type of crime, I have made this information additional to all these indicators for which you have shown interest requested from the enthematic and cantonal ministries, or county ministries, and as soon as we get that information, we will deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21777	Ambassador Beganović, you can comment now, and you can wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21778	Well, I'll do it for a while now, but I'll probably comment later when I get the right, complete information in writing. This is not just my interest, I think that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are quite concerned about this and should be concerned, so if we are already talking about some information that is not in the jurisdiction of this ministry, then I ask that it be summed up and given in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21779	Thank you. Ambassador Nenad Lalić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21780	I welcome you all very much. I ask a question to the defence minister as follows – Why does the Ministry of Defence perform on several occasions a tender procedure for the MI-8 helicopter's remonting, on the principle of rejecting the world's renowned companies and favouring companies that cannot prove or possess the powers prescribed by the BiH Public Procurement Act? I'm going to give this question a brief review of the results of the tender procedures. So, this is generally known, August 2015, the Office of Appeal's resolution annulled the procedure as a whole, and the BiH Ministry of Defence did not respect the appeal made by Heliesot of Lithuania for the reason that there were no prescribed helicopter repair certificates, I'm saying this briefly. Then, in July 2016, the BiH Defence Minister's decision annulled the procurement procedure for the reason that the Sevastopol Institute, this one, does not have the necessary reliability to exclude the risks to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security, and we remember that. Then, in November 2016, when the decision was chosen as the most favourable Heliesota from Lithuania, and it is interesting that a group of bidders of Russia, whose he did not, unequivocally, prove that Heliesota from Lithuania did not satisfy the capacity prescribed by the tender procedure for the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21781	19 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21782	That is right, and the Ministry of Defence does not accept the plea arguments, besides the fact that in the first tender, which I said earlier in 2015, it refused Heliesota because it did not have a valid certificate. The complaint office then, with its solution, adopts a complaint by a group of candidates led by Russia's Helicopters, annuls the decision to elect the best bidder, and returns the case to the defence ministry again. By decision of the BiH Ministry of Defence, again as the most favourable bidder, he declares Heliesota, not respecting the Office's recommendation for appeals and so on. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I see you remind me during the time and is currently in the appeal process again, and I would like to say in the end that repeating tender procedures without a clear and precise defined criteria for the evaluation of bidders will not lead to the realisation of the remonts, and hence to the achievement of strategic interest in the defence and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The quality of the remont of the funds in question cannot be executed by any undertaking which cannot demonstrate its technical and professional capacity, or whose remont is not covered by the relevant certificates. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21783	You can continue to comment. ministarica Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21784	Members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs. Based on the launched public procurement process of MI-8MTV-1 and Mi-8T, the BiH Defence Ministry made a decision on the results of the pre-qualification process. Of the four applications, two candidates met the qualifications requirements, while two candidates failed to meet the conditions given in the tender documentation. In the Prequalification Decision, one candidate lodged an appeal against which the Board of Appeal adopted a Decision on refusal as unfounded. The Ministry of Defence is, at the end of this Decision, qualified from qualified candidates, and those companies that provided all the evidence requested, including certificates, with the same and accepted all the conditions laid down in the tender documentation and delivered, were required to make initial tenders, after which negotiations were made, and to request final offers. Of the two final bids, one offer was not acceptable to the contractual body, the Ministry of Defence. The reason is that Lalić does not state that the company's offer is significantly higher than the amount granted in the budget for the Ministry of Defence, which was adopted by this Parliament. The offer is 41% more expensive than the approved amount for the helicopter repair, while the company that offered the amount that fits the approved funds was selected. The decision to elect the most favourable bidder has brought an appeal which has not been resolved by the Office of Appeals so far. It is known that it is the obligation of the court in the procurement process, and thus the contracted authority to learn about all the procedures that occur in the context of the examination or which they have come to in any way, must not be used, adopted or forwarded to third parties until the end of the proceedings. That's what I'm saying for the reason that the procedure isn't closed, and you, Mr. Lalić, have now provided some information. This applies to the amount of tenders, the request for valid certificates during the tendering period, as the Ministry of Defence has requested a certificate in the last three years, therefore the Ministry of Defence as a party to the proceedings cannot provide any information at this time, nor further clarifications regarding this phase of the proceedings until the proceedings before the Board of Appeals are concluded. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence will, after the final resolution of the Public Appeals Office and the Parliamentary Assembly, inform the results in due time, and once again I stress, the BiH Ministry of Defence considers me 20 as a representative, that the procedure in question has been implemented in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the sublaws governing this area. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21785	Thank you. Commentary, Ambassador Lalić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21786	Of course I'm not happy with the answer, and I'm going to ask for a written explanation, but I just want to tell you for a little while, and I'm going to take myself for the right to speak as someone who knows this area very well, and I can say that I'm also an expert when it comes to testing and remounting jet engines, because I've spent over 10 years and thousands of hours, thousands of hours, your planes, military, in the former SFRY, have flown without any handcuffs, and I know what that means. I'm repairing the car in an authorized service and I can't see, or I can't figure out who has the courage to support, let's say, an illegal remont for companies that don't have a cerftic. If we take into account that in this consortium and the business from the region from which I come, which is 100% state-owned, I have no interest, and given that the Ministry of Defence of Macedonia has already given Russia 5.5 million helicopters, and this consortium has offered five million and a hundred, that the Mađar have already remounted 5 and given another 10, we do not see who set the starting price and the fact that no one is responding to the tender because, in my view, the dumping price. We'll follow, normal and contract annexes, if the job comes to Helisoti, it's impossible for me at that price to do so, so I'm looking for a written and accurate report and it's not right there. when it is stated that they have a monopoly position. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Currently in the process of recertification are three companies in the world, Terem "Letec" Bulgaria, "Lopraga" from the Czech Republic and one company from Peru, which means, Heliesota can if you meet the requirements of obtaining a certificate, and you are somewhere here and you have led that some special actions and procedural procedures that you have acquired the belief that they can do so. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I don't know what that is – they've gained conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21787	Thank you. Ambassador Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21788	I welcome those present. A very short question, please, therefore, to provide me with the business of the Ministry of Defence, therefore, of your Ministry with the company Air Engineering Ltd. Laktashi, Mahovani bb Street, for the period '15, '16, and '17. A year. In this information, I ask you to provide me with information about this business, therefore, so far, I believe that this review exists, when it comes to air engineering, as a supplier, as a customer, the way in which this company is conducted, therefore, whether it is through a tender or through a direct contract or in some other way when it comes to business-technical co-operation. Of course, and amounts are very important, to be in that review and certainly you can now deliver a kind of work, as well as goods when it comes to, therefore, business between the Ministry and this firm. I'm also asking you to deliver this information in writing, given that you need enough time, 21 I suppose, that you can deliver it to me in writing. I didn't get an answer in writing, so maybe it's a more appropriate way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21789	Ministarka Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21790	Thank you. I have prepared, however, a review table since the issue of writing has been announced, but if you want, in oral form, if you want in writing, it is not a problem for me with the accompanying act, and here I have prepared to give you a business table and I only hope that it will not be, I say, conditionally presented where it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21791	Commentary, Ambassador Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21792	So, everything that's a public document and what you're able to give me as an MP, if there's any secrets, there's an office for that part of classified information. I would... authority come there to look at those secrets, therefore, as an MP, and I could see that, from that I ask you in writing a reply, and what is possibly an official secret, I would also ask you to indicate and allow me as an MP to to the extent that I can gain insight, to be in the office where I can look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21793	Thank you. Ambassador Damir Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21794	Thank you. Although the deputy foreign minister is present, Mr Brkić, whom I highly respect, I will exercise my right to Article 169. The Rules of Procedure and to wait for a foreign minister to appear here once, to whom Article 169 referred the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21795	All right, MP Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21796	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. My question was also addressed to the defence minister, and it relates to the state of ammunition destruction and mine-explosive assets at the odlučan Barbara polygon in Glamoc. It is a question that I have often made in my parliamentary term in the hope that it will finally end and that we will not have the same thing that is still happening in 2017. So, Bosnia and 22 Herzegovina has been destroying surpluses of ammunition and mine-explosives for years through the method of open detonation. We are the only country in Europe that solves the surpluses of its weapons in this way, although the BiH Presidency has made a decision, which is that the destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets is done in two ways, by decomposing or decomposing of components that can then be sold well on the market, because metals and explosives are obtained. However, we are largely destroying the largest number of resources by means of an open detonation method, which is problematic not only from the aspect of the lives of the people who live there, because we have a large number of complaints from citizens who are there, there have broken houses, the question of the quality of the country, water and air is always problematic because you cannot get accurate information about what it is, because those who are seeking information about it are protected by secret information and must not indicate what is the real situation and in this sense I am asking that the Ministry of Defence finally report us – Who is currently destroying ammunition and mine-explosive means with open detonation? So it's not the Department of Defense, it's a matter of control at all. There is. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Second question – When is the completion of this project expected? And third – When was the last time an analysis of land, water and air was carried out in that location?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21797	Thank you. Ministarka Pendeš.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21798	Thank you for asking. The BiH presidency's decision on the size, structure and locations of the BiH Armed Forces defines the Glamoc polygon as the prospect location of the Armed Forces. On the same polygon, it is realised that ammunition and mine-explosive means are destroyed and that is done by means of detonation at the open and thermal treatment method. An open-air detonation method shall be used to destroy ammunition and mine-explosive means which, for security reasons and complex technical failures, cannot be delayed industrially, nor to demilitate by other methods, i.e. by a method of deboration and thermal processing. The thermal treatment method is used to destroy the technically invalid.7.62 to 20 mm ammunition when secondary raw materials are collected separately by subjection after incineration. These destruction operations are implemented within the framework of the Technical Arrangement to assist in the destruction of light weapons, and various types of ammunition signed between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the State Department is carried out by Sterling International and in coordination with the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, and in accordance with the Operation Plan for the destruction or resolution of surpluses. The ammunition and mine-explosive assets that are subject to destruction on the Glamoc polygon are previously technically faulty, have been declared incorrect by teams to control the technical and technical inspection of the Armed Forces of BiH, and are then delivered to the Commission in the follow-up procedure for the implementation of the process for the resolution of surplus mobile military property, and then to the BiH Presidency. Following the BiH presidency's decision, the defence ministry is making a solution and accessing the destruction of it. During 2016, the method of detonation was destroyed by 238.52 tonnes, using a thermal treatment method of 404.76 tonnes. During the year 2017, 231.3 tonnes were destroyed by an outdoor detonation method and 205.59 tonnes by thermal treatment method. The BiH Ministry of Defence is conducting studies of physical and chemical properties in the land at the site of Glamoc polygon, and according to the findings provided by the contract by the company ANAHEM d.o.o. Belgrade is implementing measures to improve the situation of heavy metals in the land, with the aim of protecting people, as well as the plant and animal world. It is noted that an analysis of 23 soils was carried out in accordance with the Regulation on the determination of the permitted quantities of harmful and hazardous substances in the soil and the methods of their study "The Official Journal of the Federation of BiH", number 72/09, which prescribes criteria exclusively for agricultural soil. Pursuant to the same Regulation, the agricultural soil used for agricultural production under which a surface-worked layer of soil, as well as a deeper horizon not covered by the treatment, including discharge parts of groundwater substrates which may also be contaminated by harmful I'm bringing matter into the ground. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Since there are no other criteria that land does not fall within agricultural land in an analysed military controlled area and is not intended for the production of food of the above-mentioned Regulation, it is generally not for the determination of pollution. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Since you have asked two more questions, the questions under this question, which have not been mentioned to me in this written form, if you consider me to be able to provide you with a detailed answer in writing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21799	Commentary, Member of the Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21800	Normally, at first I couldn't understand the speed you read, I needed a translator to understand what you wanted to say. Secondly, uh, when you say the polygon is, you forget that the polygon is private property of the people who live there, not the location that belongs to the Armed Forces. Thirdly, when you didn't tell me what was key, when it was last, when the last tests were done and what was the composition of the land, water and soil, and air. So I didn't get any answers... I'm asking you to do it on this written path, and then I hope we can continue the questions from what I get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21801	Thank you. This concludes the parliamentary issues and lunch breaks by 2:30. So, Mrs. Krišto reported that she's here and she's taking the lead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21803	_________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21804	I'm in, I'm in, but I don't have an agreement in college. _________(?) 24 [[no microphone turned on]] I don't have an agreement with the College on that. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21810	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21811	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21812	Parliament. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21813	You know, [[Common discussion]] Mr. Bećirović, you know that without at least one member of the College I couldn't hold a session. _________(?) 25 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21817	We're moving on with the session. Representative Mirsad Mešić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21818	Madam Chairman, I refer to Article 7(4) which discusses the obligations of Members to attend the session when they do not attend to report it in the manner prescribed by this article. This is really inadmissible, out of the ordinary, I don't know if in any of the world's parliaments, this is how it's done, that we wait half an hour without any explanation and no reaction from anyone. It's also a chance to give you back a little bit. I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21819	Please, can't debate, can't pause because we're at the agenda, I'm asking the Secretary of the House to read us the provisions regarding setting the agenda and giving a break. Here – The club of representatives has the right to request a 30-minute break for each point, the chairman of the House is obliged to give a leave immediately if the vote has not begun. And we're not at the agenda, we're going to the agenda. As for the amendments and additions to the sitting agenda, I would like to mention the following, the agendas are deleted: Point 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on excise duties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislators Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-02-1 2340/17, since 29.09.2017. (first reading) It was removed at the request of the Committee for Finance and Budget, and is asked by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Management Board of BiH's Impaired Taxation Board to deliver an opinion on the bill as soon as possible. Point 8. Report on the implementation of the Revised Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the Implementation of the Anx VII Dayton Peace Agreement for 2016 applicant: Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, issue: 01,02,03-37-2251/17, of 19.09. It was removed because the competent Human Rights Committee did not deliver an opinion. Point 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual protection of classified information, No 01,02-05-2414/17 of 09.10.2017. It was taken off at the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee due to the absence of the ministry's rapporteur. 26 The following are added to the agenda: point 3. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2808/17, of 11.12.2017. Point 4. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue under an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2809/17, of 11.12.2017. Point 5. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2810/17, of 11.12.2017. Point 12. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal, No: 01,02-34-1-2683/17, of 14.11.2017. Point 13. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Road Safety at Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer Momčilo Novaković, issue: 01-02-1-1774/17, dated 30.05.2017. Point 14. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act, Proposer Predrag Kožul, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17, of 23.03.2017 and Point 15. Opinion of the Association for the Protection of Foreign Savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No: 01-50-17-2410/17, of 28.11.2017, with notice of the Committee on Finance and Budget No: 01/4-50-3-2410,56/17, of 29.11.2017. Point 7 which is now under way – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-02-1-2338/17 of 29 September 2017 with the Opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21820	The Honorable Chairman, deputy. In determining the agenda, is it in order to know what we are voting for and to be able to define ourselves about voting for the agenda we need to clarify a few things and I invite you and the College to give us an explanation. 27 Of course, the most interesting thing for all of us today is the point of the agenda related to excises and a large number of media, the public expects the outcome of this session and the answer to the question of whether the fuel tank will collect for 10 marks and whether it will be a chain reaction, of course, remaining additions, but we will leave it for discussion, I now want to ask you about how this point is formulated. On TV, we saw President Zvizdić, who told us that we would consider this law in a shortened procedure, so transparently in two readings with the possibility of giving amendments. We are also informed that this is how the Law entered Parliament, and to us, we are now receiving a law whose formal-legal proposal is not the Council of Ministers, but the House of Peoples. So it would be good if before the plea... Dom gets the information that the Council of Ministers' proposal, which was supposed to follow a shortened procedure, has become a proposal to the House of Peoples that goes by emergency? We have information that these days Mr. Vigemark has made more miles than any domestic lobbying official to adopt this law. But we'll also talk about it when we get to the point, but the question arises if this is a proposal, if it can be this far-fetched, given the point of the agenda, is there a proposer there? So they tell me, that Mr. Softić is here. I think it's a strategic good decision since Mr. Safet Softić enjoys the respect of this House and will certainly be less exposed to criticism than if some other members of the College had come, but if he had asked me to tell him – not Safete himself, don't go into this story and become a protective face of fuel collection after all. But here's to get the first, first explanation that the zakon entered Parliament by a brief procedure as a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and from the fourth to the second floor came by emergency procedure as a proposal from the House of People and whether Mr. Softić represents, I suppose he is on behalf of the promoter, since he has a number of questions and technical character [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21821	Time. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21822	For which I don't know if he can answer without the Ministry of Finance. Well, for starters, we have time. Don't rush and don't shorten the debate, if I may suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21823	I apologize, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 71, at the beginning of the House of Representatives session as well as any authorising officer has the right to request that an optional item be omitted and a new one be proposed with the relevant materials in writing. So please counsel whether to... I didn't understand, I followed, did you, are you asking for a abandonment or a proposal for a new point? About what you discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21824	I thank the chairman. A little bit of this altitude difference between Jahorina-Sara's problems. So, I asked the answer to the question – is this the same law that came from the Council of Ministers to Parliament? 28
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21825	Please don't get your word to argue, regardless of these height differences, I'm just asking if you're proposing to withdraw this item you've been talking about, because we haven't received any written material, I know what I'm asking, and we haven't heard it in oral debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21826	So I asked you first to inform us as agents and the public, and then we'll make a proposal. So, I think it was clear, I see your colleagues nod their heads to understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21827	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21828	I thank the chairman. First of all, I am looking for something that we were looking for yesterday at the Expansive College, which is to answer us – Who is the Proposer of this Law, only that simple answer we are looking for, is it the House of Peoples or is it the Council of Ministers to know what document we are talking about? Because we have two documents here, we have a document which, although in a letter from a respected colleague, Softić, who sent it, he also says that it is not the House of Peoples that proposes but the Council of Ministers, and it is the one that determines the procedure, we have confusion here. Please give us an answer to the question – who is the Proposer of this Law? And we ask that these three laws be taken down because these are optional agenda points because these three, these three laws have not passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a rough violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure, as well as Rule 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So, that's two things, and so we can keep doing it at all, let's get to the bottom of who's the Proposer of the Law. If he is the promoter of the House of Peoples, then we lack the opinion of the Council of Ministers under the business procedure and then we had to agree on the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and the proposal of the House of Nations. If the Proposer is the Council of Ministers of the House of Peoples, he cannot change the proposing procedure according to our Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. All this could have been done more wisely, one of the delegates could have beautifully prescribed the Council of Ministers' Law and proposed it by emergency procedure. The second thing, we will tell you, stop the real Proposer of this Law is Mr. Vigemark, as the legal representative of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Mr. Vigemark, who visited the messengers these days, came home to some, and invited some home for cookies. Since Mr Vigemark is doing the job and Council of Ministers and Parliament, I, as an MP, ask that the second item of the agenda be – the request of MP Aleksandra Pandurević to consider the proposal for a law on replacement in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So, the aim of this Law is to make it nice for me, since many here are promoting savings, when someone else is writing and passing laws, that we also disband the Council of Ministers and this Parliament and that Mr. Vigemark is a nice Deputy of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21829	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21830	The colleague also made a mistake in only one part, because also if the House is a proposing then we lack the opinion of the legislative sector of the Parliamentary Assembly, we do not have it if it is the House of Peoples. And you also didn't add that the procedures and that everything was done in the House of Peoples are retroactive, because they are, for example, Commissions also met the Commission on Finance and Budget, the ustavnopravni Law and that the College of the House of Peoples had not even authorised them. So, the College of the People's House was at 1:00, and the commissions had already finished their work, one commission at 12:00, and the other at 12:30. So they didn't know at all, they knew in advance what was going to happen at the College. So, it's a rude violation of the procedures of all possible and this is the first time that has happened in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly something like this and of course we support the requirement to remove these laws from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21831	Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21832	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues have previously said, so today this will remain listed as one real disgrace and one inaccuracy of the people who run this Parliament, trying to keep us from speaking in public to the end of the language, making fools and us sitting here and the public in this country. So it's my question – who's the Proposer of the Law, so why are you forced to do all this, why are you destroying institutions, that's the question of you sitting, the three of you sitting up there, so why are you tearing down the institutions, the procedures, the laws of this country? So there is nothing you can agree on in this country, but you can agree to force people to try such a difficult life in Bosnia and Herzegovina even more. So what I'm saying is that the way you're doing this is certainly going to stay recorded as one, as you might say, one question of an incorrect, undemocratic, inhumane, and not to say further, as it is called, approach. That's why I'm calling for you to take this law off the agenda. The second thing, to put into the agenda the law that solves the problems of this kind, the Independent Block has proposed the Act of Excises, we have respected the decision of international financial institutions, we can unblock the funds, we will not buy people's lives in this country, we have a solution in which we can say that we are the ones who drag the country forward, not that we are doing it the way you do it and everything is done by procedure. This morning, the Finance Commission gave a positive opinion on this Act, all formal legal procedures were respected, and I ask you accordingly to include this bill, which was included in tomorrow's session, but to return it to the session today because we have formally-legally met all the conditions. And secondly, I suggest that you include a new agenda item, Madam Chairman, so I suggest you include a new agenda item that is said to be in today's session and today's agenda, to include a point with the title – Information from the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Mrs Borjana Krišto, on a meeting in Jahorina between the SNSD and HDZ High Delegations and an clarification of the official statement in which 30 is said that BiH is in crisis and that SNSD and HDZ have a common commitment. I believe that you will find agreement here in the College to include one of these points of the agenda, because a third member of the College who did not allow us to begin the session in time, and you have been late for 20 minutes at this session, obviously for the reason that he was watching your back, you have negotiated something that is important and something that a third member of the College participates in, and therefore I expect us here, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the public throughout the country to inform us about what you have agreed and what this joint commitment is, in fact, to see how we will set ourselves up. So these partners of yours are being set up as they are, but that you know that they will be in this Parliament and in this country they will be responsible for one such condition.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21833	Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21834	I'll try to be very brief, given what we've got, let's call it a game or a circus. As you can see, it's not clear to anyone who's the Proposer, so at least let us know who the Proposer is, make this House have the dignity, that we who need to discuss this and support it, not support it or be abstention know why we're doing it. It is necessary, in all procedures, that we who have sworn upon the Constitution of this state respect at least the legality and procedures that we ourselves have prescribed. If that's not the case, then I'm asking you to make an effort to reduce this torment and withdraw this set of laws from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21835	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21836	I thank the chairman. In practice so far, when a session of the House is convened in the text of the agenda when the draft law or amendments and the addition of the law on the agenda are usually the name of the promoter. Here, as I see under points 3, 4 and 5, there are no suggestions, and therefore this is the confusing state that we've been brought into, and because nobody seems to me to be willing to specify the proposer. I don't see at all what's so controversial that it's completely transparent to say who's the promoter, to avoid these misunderstandings and discussions that are under way. Also, I want to meet this House that today at the Finance and Budget Committee, we have given a positive light to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act where the Proposer is an Independent Club and at the same time we have several different, different drafts of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Accessives and Open, and it is very clear what we are discussing today and what the text is. Is he who is the Council of Ministers' proposal or is it the text proposed by the House of Peoples? So the question - who's the promoter?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21837	Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go, counsel. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21838	So, I can't possibly, at first I expected my colleague Arnaut to answer, I don't even know that he didn't answer, because he never started the debate without the legislator. I'm not really good with the fact that I didn't hear, uh, his intervention because I know we were interrupting the sessions just because there wasn't a bill promoter. Also, the chairman, I can't help but wonder that you either don't hear or don't want to hear what questions MPs ask you as chairman. So, please, tell us who's the Proposer of the Law. So, tell us, so we know if there's a bill promoter, if that's an MP, if that's the House of Nations, if, uh, Council of Ministers, whoever it is, tell us the answer we're looking for. I do not know how many MPs have already taken part in the discussion, and here, fellow Arnaut has come forward and I am sure he has a solution, I am fully convinced when it comes to the legislator of the Law that he will give a quality answer, because he simply follows when it comes to the presence of the promoter and his intervention on several occasions and on several occasions the session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been suspended until the legislator is provided. I've never seen an esteemed colleague of Softić attend sessions before, I guess he's the legislator of the law, but that doesn't mean until someone tells me. Otherwise, I haven't often seen you at these sessions, to assume that you are on your behalf or on behalf of the House of Nations the legislator who you are. I welcome the present legislator of the Law, but this type of response would be necessary in order to know freely who is the Proposer of the Law. So, like many others, we ask who really is the Proposer of the Law?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21839	Thank you. Before I give the next MP a word I would like to say and ask the MPs to adhere to the Rules of Procedure, remind them that we are at the agenda point – setting the agenda, so we did not set the agenda. My colleague, nor I, the chairman, am I here to give MPs the answers to who is the legislator of the law. Today, at the point at which we are located, I remind you that we adhere to Article 71, that everyone has the right to propose a new initiative or law and ask for the absence of an optional point from this House session. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel. ... Deputy, Mladen Bosić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21840	I think we're all in this situation and it's clear to everyone what this is all about. It is likely that most citizens or those who are not in this process if they listened to this debate would have no idea what is going on, what is going on, what is new in this whole situation in relation to Parliament's regular work. Well, the new thing is, they're trying to forcely change the procedure for functioning the House of Representatives in the legislative procedure. It is new that the House of People is being used to amend legislative procedures in the House of Representatives. It is new that the House of Nations takes on a foreign proposal, namely the proposal of the Council of Ministers, and after voting turns it into its proposal and instead of going according to the shortened procedure, as requested by the Council of Ministers, they are looking for an emergency procedure and, as Mr Softić said, I congratulate him on the honesty when he gave that statement – we did so to avoid the commission phase in the House of Representatives. Well, I think it's very dangerous for the BiH Parliament because democracy is not just the number of hands and most hands in Parliament. Democracy and respect for the procedures that ensure that those who are in the minority can speak their own opinion and can have their own voice, and so is the procedure for the functioning of the BiH House of Representatives. And it is not by chance that there is a Commission 32 phase at which every law can be searched in detail, and Mr. Softić said another fact – so we are looking for an emergency procedure, not because it is an urgent law, but because we want to bypass the commission phase. And is that not an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, is it not an abuse of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations in order to impose a House of Representatives in which it will function, and I do not think the House of Nations has the right to do so, that the House of Peoples has its function defined by the Constitution. This function is, above all, to oversee the protection of the rights of the people, because it is called the House of Peoples and is composed of three constituent peoples. He has the right to discuss everything and all the laws and everything that he discusses and the House of Representatives, but his intensity is not to be above the House of Representatives, his intensity is to do his job and this way, trying to impose a House of Representatives by the House of Nations is something that is outrageous and has not happened so far. And that's why we're at this stage where we are, and that's why this is in the end line and unfair, not according to democracy, it's an illusion, it's unfair for citizens to talk about any democratic process, and we're aware of what it's all about. So, pervarant mentality, The way I'm going to get around something is what's going on here. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I very much appreciate Mr. Softić, I'm very surprised that he has accepted the role of playing around this way and I think this will have far-reaching consequences, because in the end, the House of Nations has now taken its right and thinks he's found a way to, if he wants to, Every law to bypass the commission phase at the House of Representatives and therefore I think that we should make it clear about whether this proposal is valid, or whether the broken members of the Rules of Procedure which Mrs Pandurević cited in her discussion., and should vote on it by the House of People, because we had no consent to the College on this matter, and if there is no agreement on the College, the House of Representatives declares itself about it. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21841	Thank you. Nikola Špirić, representative, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21842	Ma'am, the chairman and chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, so I actually think that the way serious things are being discussed in this country is not good at all, and that even the last institution that should give some hope for Bosnia and Herzegovina is entering a phase, I would say, entropy. I don't think they should throw a ball at each other here, run an election campaign. The council of ministers could not have had the chairman protect the SDS ministers from defining the emergency procedure. Why did Denis Zvizdić give the alibi to Mirko Šarović to get out of this, and why is he pushing today, logically, to the Serbian democratic site to run an election campaign? The price is common, the citizens will pay one and the other, but not to lead us astray, please, sit down, and agree whether you have a majority or not, whether there is a parliamentary majority. It is fairer to tell the citizens that there is no such thing. The punishment of God for Bosnia and Herzegovina is this authority and this majority. Say today, how is it possible that those who signed the Reform Agenda are today opposition to this same pre-election campaign, how is it possible? So, I ask you to just tell me why the Council of Ministers who had all the mechanisms in their hands to honor this House did not do so, protecting ministers whose MPs today run an election campaign, for God's sake, caring for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Don't worry too much, they won't be anything. So, that, that answer interests me, whether you have a majority or not. So, we won't bother, and you'll say you have it and you don't have it, but say it once, enough games with us and with the citizens. Thank you very much. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21843	Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21844	Mr. Bosić, therefore, it is clear that because of the error of the Council of Ministers, we have come to this position. In the past, the Rules of Procedure contained a sentence that says – the laws are discussed first by the House of Representatives, but no longer. So the Council of Ministers can direct the House to the People, because that means that both homes that are otherwise equal now become more equal because the House of Peoples also exist a House that can guide the bill to the House of Representatives and it is really done. It is obvious, then, that according to us, he is the promoter of the House of Peoples, it is obvious that the Council of Ministers sent the Law by a brief procedure towards the House of Nations, but it is also obvious that the House of Nations has referred the Law to us by an urgent procedure. I just can't figure out where the commissions discussed something they didn't have the basis to discuss. First, I hear that the Commission, the Constitutional Commission, has not issued an opinion on constitutional law. So it's not, it's probably the chairman of the Constitutional Commission who thought that since it's an emergency procedure, there's no need for us to do that. And which is why the Finance and Budget Commission, as I came to the Commission, always objected when the Finance Commission and Budget discussed laws that it had no premise first, which is that it had the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. So, it's, it's amazing in general, where the Finance Commission dealt with that way. So how many problems did the Council of Ministers cause? As far as I understand the desire of the House of Peoples to pass the Law, the same chaos was done in the House of Representatives itself. How...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21845	I ask the MPs to comply with the Rules of Procedure, so they can refer to what is the correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21846	Well about that and, sir, it's about... how this House of People had no right to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21847	And it's about time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21848	Here, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21849	Thank you very much. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21850	Most of it was said by distinguished counterpart Majkić, therefore, another reason more to remove these laws from the agenda because they did not pass the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If we assume that this is the Council of Ministers' Law, it means that it is addressed to us by a brief procedure, the Proposer proposes a procedure. So it's not the Council of Ministers' Law. Then they say – the law of the House of the Peoples, but the House of the Peoples did not send us any of its laws, so the people of 34 wrote to us that it was the Law of the Council of Ministers. The home of the people cannot change the procedures of the promoter, which our Rules of Procedure determines. The third thing, even if it was the House of Peoples, again we have reason to take off, because the House of Peoples did not comply with the Rules of Procedure. Namely, they held first, which was spoken by distinguished counterpart Damir Bećirović, the commission, and then tasked the College with commissioning the authorities. Now, someone might say, it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, we tested it this morning, so we asked the Council of Ministers' laws to be on the Finance and Budget Committee, they told us according to the Poslonik, because the Kolegijum is not a job memo. So, please, don't make a joke out of this Parliament, let's get this straight, whose law is this, we're just looking for one simple answer, I guess, didn't fall from Mars. I mean, through whom Wigemark actually sent him, that's what we're interested in, asking him to plead, even if we have more laws, if it's the Council of Ministers' Law, he had to be on the Commission, if the Law of the People's House is in the procedure, please, since we have more laws in the procedure, there is a member of our 106th Rules of Procedure who clearly determines that we must have the opinion of the Council of Ministers and that then Article 7 says that the legislators of these two laws must agree. So there's been a breach of Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, position (6), position (7), I am looking for a member, and I think, 133, if the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, we do not know who the Proposer is yet, but in any case a violation of Rule 106, paragraph (6), point (6), point (7), and we are asking that this House of Representative be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21851	Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21852	Dear fellow Špirić, it's not about the majority and the minority, it's about the procedure. I will no longer discuss who the majority, who is not the majority, who is, and the House of Representatives is the House of Selected Representatives and whose political option they belong to, we should represent all citizens of this country and act according to the laws of this country. Here we don't know who, how, in what way, by what reason, and so, now this who, who, who, who, who sent us this law. To whom we bring this Law, we must know it. It's okay, is the law necessary when he suggested it to us when he's the one who's proposing? I want to ask myself to propose a lot of things here about this law, so the citizens know why someone votes for, someone against, and someone is abstention. So this is not criticism, Mr. Špirić, but just so we know what's happening to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21853	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21854	So here's another call, take this off the agenda, don't go any further. Look at what this discussion is turning into. You don't answer any questions, so all of your discussions are going in the direction of obvious and clear reference to failures, to violations of procedures, to violations of the law. Now what my colleague, Bosić, a member of the College, therefore, you have at least a dozen arguments why this should not have appeared in Parliament in this way, I really call you again, in this sense, do not continue to bring us into such a situation, pull this out of the agenda, and respect this proposal that I was just talking about. You have the law, if you care about the solution to unblock the funds, that this, we get 35 financial, European Union funds to unblock, here's a law proposed by the Independent Block and passed all possible procedures, and since there are two, there are two lawyers in the College, so since you interpret regime law when you need to interpret it, when you need it in another way, come out and explain these things to us. Don't think I'm sitting here, not expressing myself again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21855	Deputy Šefik Džaferović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21856	Honored chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I call, above all, on those who are reporting for discussion that they treat their colleagues and colleagues in a dignified way, not to give insults. I won't do it even though a few insults have already been directed to me today, but if I'm put in a position I'll know how to answer, but before that I'm calling for the dignity of this House to respect each other. What I have reported for these two minutes is to say that it is a set of laws that we have received from the House of Peoples, with a proposal for the laws to be considered by an urgent parliamentary procedure. You, respected colleagues and colleagues, also received a proposal from the Council of Ministers in the post office, but you also received a proposal from the House of Peoples. So, the People's House delivered complete material, its conclusion, and the motion for procedure and the Law they adopted with the requirement that this Law they adopted be considered here by an urgent procedure and the College has no choice but to put it as a mandatory item of the agenda here, by emergency procedure. When it is an emergency procedure, then neither the Council of Ministers' opinion is obtained nor, therefore, is a completely urgent procedure and is lagging behind this procedure that Mrs Pandurević spoke of. These points may be removed from the agenda, you, MPs, or we, MPs, will decide by our vote, when we vote on the procedure of what we think of it and we will decide on the very essence of the matter if we come into the situation if we discuss it. And that's the way this House should go. No Niko has made any decision on behalf of this House, this is a request from the House of Nations that can be accepted and which does not have to be accepted. As far as I'm concerned, he'll be accepted in the E.R. the procedure, and the essence itself will be accepted. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21857	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, we have Aleksandra Pandurević, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21858	I ask again, who's the promoter, because I don't know that there have been any counterfeits in this House? The law that he delivered to us to the House of Peoples is protocold under the same number as the Council of Ministers' Law. In a letter from the esteemed Mr. Softić, he writes that he is the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, not the House of Peoples. Our Rules of Procedure say the procedure is determined by the Proposer. So it's a serious violation, and in this case, the Rules of Procedure. And again, I ask that it be made clear, if the Proposer is, they say, the House of Peoples, and the Council of Ministers writes there and sent us the Council of Ministers' Law, I don't think I know why they didn't at least tear up that page where Mr. 36 Kutleša's memo, at least put so much effort into it. So again we came to the fact that the Proposer is the Council of Ministers and that the procedure has changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21859	Just to be clear, you didn't make a reference, given that you responded to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't say which provision of the Rules of Procedure was violated in this. It's some other injury related to the procedure, and it's not what we're working on, we're referring to a breach of the Poslovnk of Procedure in terms of the work of this House. We have a representative of Saša Magazinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21860	I referirati to Article 133. Rules of Procedure and I would like to ask you who is the legislator of the Law that we are considering under the third item of the agenda and it would be very important for us to give us an answer to that question so that we can make a statement on the agenda in accordance with the same Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21861	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21862	I must say that no one here has offended anyone, Mr. Džaferović, here is the College of Insulting this House because of the way it proposes without a procedure to force the agenda. And don't open up the issue of insults or insults, I wanted to report on these violations of the Rules of Procedure, but there's no provision in the Rules of Procedure that there's really a kind of mental injury here against these people sitting here. So, those who fear some Wigemark who was some sort of ordinary scribe somewhere in Sweden and change their voice because of him and want to because of his suggestion to rob this people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and make it impossible for the House that the people chose to conduct the procedure. So, we have a House proposal that was elected by party presidents, and those chosen by the people, they have a brief procedure, and that's your proposal. Take this off... and go through the procedure if you have these, a couple of freaks in this House, go through the bar procedure. Well, it's not two days, it won't be Kiamet in two days.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21863	Advocacy Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21864	Madam Chairman, my correction to the wrong quote refers to the allegations of distinguished colleagues who are completely misreading this proposal. So this is about absolute respect for the Rules of Procedure of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. This Law, adopted in the House of Peoples, is owned by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and all delegates and MPs, no matter how they choose, they have both constitutional and business absolute same rights. So he was sent by the House of Peoples, the House of Representatives, to be considered by emergency procedure. That's the conclusion of the House of Peoples. Here MPs in the House of Representatives have one possibility to make known whether they are to be included in the agenda as proposed. If they are, 37 for procedure, if they are for emergency procedure, they will pass, if they are not, they will be shortened, if they do not pass or shorten, they will be regular and I do not see in any sense that any counterfeit is here. Secondly, here, in addition to this document, the bill's proposal, both of which are unofficially consolidated text of the Law and the Agency's opinion, is absolutely business. So, here to discuss that this proposal is not included in line with, uh, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives is absolutely a distraction to the public. I totally agree, I don't mind someone having a stand for, against or being held back about this, but when we vote, it's unnecessary now that we waste unnecessary time on this and each other to insult and try to justify why we're not. Legally, it's our right to be in favour or against, but I don't think it's fair how we treat this, because it's not the first time, this isn't the first time that this is happening, and the predstavnički of Representatives has done the same thing in a series of previous laws, adopted, to direct them to the House of Peoples by emergency procedure. I would like to remind you, too, that in an identical way the Single Parent Number Act has been passed [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21865	Please, don't get out of place, please, I'm warning the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21866	So the Single Parent Number Act was adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21867	Aleksandra Pandurević, MP, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21868	Mr. Prodanović, the third order of correspondence from a respected colleague, Softić, stands clearly for the promoter, the Council of Ministers. He cannot disappear, evaporate, we cannot hide, we cannot erase, we cannot change, the promoter is the one. What, we now, here we go today to say good, now the promoter is a House of Representatives, and now we're sending the House of Peoples, and so we can scream until the Deity next year here in the circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21869	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21870	I really can't be surprised at my fellow Prodanović, only if they made you say this, it makes sense to me, and to say things like this voluntarily, that doesn't really go into my head. I know you'd be fantastic and if you were on this side, you'd have enough games in your legs and you'd be able to defend both attitudes, but get up and tell her whether you're doing this voluntarily or out of obligation. If it's from your obligation, it's forgiven, but if you're willing to explain everything to us, upside down, then I really can't be surprised. And I, the boss told you to turn off, you now shut down the replica, answer freely, what's the matter, there doesn't have to be that much fear. Stasha, let the man talk. The only one who's really out of this, from your club, is the fact that he said one thing, that's Mr. Špirić, and that stands. He said, quote – citizens will pay the price, it's really so if you push this to the end. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21871	I ask the honourable MPs to re-behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when it comes to correcting the wrong allegations. You know that MPs can't ask counsel questions, so I ask that we respect each other and respect each other. And now representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21872	I thank the chairman. It would be worth knowing the recipe for the cake Mr. Wigemark served to our colleagues and colleagues, because he will leave Bosnia and Herzegovina, leave us the burden, to the citizens and to the citizens, to all of us therefore, and it would be worth knowing the miraculous mix so that we could survive this all that remains of us in the amannet when Mr. Wigemark goes away. I'm surprised that my colleague, Prodanović, who is here like many others, has let the roots go for many years and said that this was happening and that this was something consistent with the Rules of Procedure of this or that House. It is true that the House of Nations has adopted something, but it does not change the procedure of Mr. Prodanović, it will not change the procedure of the House of Peoples as it suits him. Here's the assumption that the respected Mr. Safet Softić is a proposer, so here's what it means to take down, say, an emergency procedure so we can go to regular or shortened, which means that all of those answers that follow in the commission phases Mr. Softić will be a proposer who will give answers. I congratulate you Mr. Softić, I do not know if the SDA has resolved for you, too, to receive two salaries because you are now also the Council of Ministers, as well as the delegate, or the chairman of the House of Peoples, since everything in Bosnia and Herzegovina is possible, I believe that the SDA may, too, be able to do you this service, to be adequately paid. I also refer to Article 106(6) and (7), which says that if the House of Nations, therefore, is not a Council of Ministers proposing, and let us assume that you, Mr. Softić, are an authorised promoter, says – The College of the House of Law points to the Council of Ministers to give us its opinion within 20 days. So, the procedure itself has been violated, and we're waiting, we should, or we should take that break that we've been able to take for 15, 20 days, so we can wait for the Council of Ministers' opinion, so we know what to do. So, it offends the Honorable Chairman that you are constantly calling on us as representatives and advocates to tell you which member, on the basis of which we are discussing, we are calling on you, where you have given yourself to the College, not to say to the three-member, but perhaps to the two-member College so much for the right that you are here not taking inter-paras, but to the bog who decide properly, that is, when you can violate the Rules of Procedure and when you are above the Constitution, the law, and everything. So, it's very insulting and I would beg, since we've chosen you as MPs and MPs, you've sat down after some have raised here, I think all of us, have, have, raised or have not raised our hands for you to be a primus inter parasa.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21873	Thank you. Here's what we've given you extra time to convince us of what you've been saying. Representative Salko Sokolović is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21874	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. 39 My replica to my esteemed colleague Lazar Prodanović. So, if that were the case with Mr. Prodanović as you said then we wouldn't have the practice of adopting different texts of certain legal solutions in our homes, and then forming a commission to bring those texts into line. So that would go, what people say, honey and milk and there wouldn't be any problem, but that's not the case. Uh, it's not a replica of Mrs. Vražalica, just to be clear, I was one of those who ate that famous cake, but since I was a believer man, I was under the abdomen, studied the dowry, and I wasn't affected by coffee or that cake. Thank you, and let's see who was affected, shall we?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21875	Representative Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21876	Thank you, Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. We have said more than once in public that it is a problem that access to a set of legislation from the Reform Agenda, thinking that definitely one thing is often commented and talked in European centres, one thing, but to refer to what was present here. I have a feeling that you're harassing us here, for those who plead to be most and have influence in the Council of Ministers, the same structure is in the College of the House of Representatives, is the same structure in the House of Peoples, is the same structure in the Council of Ministers. Why are you asking yourself a question? Is that a responsibility, you know each other, there's a concise agenda here, I'm not going to plead, I'm not going to say how we vote, we're going to ask for a break when it comes to it, but obviously citizens are harassed here in a way that tells a populist story about how to care for citizens, and in a completely different way, we're going to conjecture some relationships here in the House of Representatives, and so please stop harassing and harassing the citizens here, but don't ask each other a question, look at yourself in the mirror, it's the same structure in the colleges of both homes and in the Council of Ministers, and then someone here tries to dissuscitrate and refer to themselves in public as some persecutor for some citizen, some interests of citizens, and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21877	Representative Željko Komšić, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21878	I'd like to join this. To forgive these words, but this story about Vigemark and cookies is increasingly starting to look like that story about Ivica and Marica, with you in the College having to agree who Ivica is and who's Marica. And, uh, but now one serious question, so people, does it sound religious for you to adopt the law in one home under one procedure and another at home in another procedure? It's illogical, even to ignore and what it says in the Rules of Procedure, it's illogical, what it says in the acts delivered to the MPs. So I have a proposal for Mr. Softić to convince us that he is here in front of an authorised promoter to withdraw this law. Well, either you're entitled to it, if you're already a proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21879	40 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21880	So pull him out, brother, and let's sort out this tape about the procedure, 'cause everyone interprets them the way it suits him.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21881	Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21882	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Oh, my answer, my replica to Mr. Košarac, who is being harassed in this House. As far as I know, the practice of working in committees has been introduced by the party that Mr. Košarac is chairing here in Parliament, so they do not work in commissions. The least we should do at this point is keep quiet and do nothing and not say anything here on this plenary section, because they don't work in committees, but I don't understand why the SDA, HDZ and others support this lack of commission work by acting this way. If by the end of the term of office, you will have to make all legislative decisions in the emergency procedure tomorrow, then a decision should be taken at the next session of Parliament to abolish the commissions, we no longer need them. And what Mr Komšić said, it is illogical that two different principles are passed by law in the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21883	A fellow deputy, Mladen Bosić, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21884	Correction of Mr. Košarac's false allegations, who said they didn't know how to vote. So you will vote for two hands each of you, because you need money and this whole story and this distraction and the fraud over the procedure is due to you bringing Republika Srpska into a loan-dependent position, which you cannot survive without new credits that someone else will have to repay, not you but someone else, these children who are now finishing schools, their children, etc. Just that I, to remind you one more time, means if someone, if someone is a fraud if you cheat on someone and if it's not in the law so defined, it's still a fraud, you're still a fraud. So this right here, so maybe it's not completely defined, but it's clear, it's a clear intention, it's intended to impose a House of Representatives on the people to force them to skip the commission phase on the adoption of these laws, and that's human fraud. We're supposed to be some kind of body here that respects some moral principles and we're here to discuss whether this is okay or not, so this isn't right. Why is it okay to make it impossible for the MPs on the committee to say what they think? This is the thing that, if rightly so, should have gone to a wider public debate, it is a shame to expect this law to take money out of the pockets of citizens by emergency procedure. Shame, so appeal to you
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21885	I'm asking the MPs not to get it. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21886	Let us try to maintain the dignity of this House, cannot impose the House of People as some home that is above the House of Representatives. You need to go back. If we do not already have moral principles, then we should return this provision to the Rules of Procedure to each [[the speaker is warned on time]] The law must first go to the House of Representatives, then to the House of Peoples to avoid such manipulations and abuses. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21887	Representative Staša Košarac, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21888	I don't know, Mr. Bosić, who you're talking to, first of all, you're using some qualifications that aren't in the right place to be some kind of fraud, and I don't know on any of the grounds of any of the people here you could have concluded that someone here wanted to dissuade someone. I referred to the agenda point, and it reads – The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises in BiH and thus, by an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Law(?). It's my fundamental parliamentary right to refer to the draft agenda item that came from the House of Peoples, I don't know if we cheated on anyone, it's officially past the procedure in the College and the Expansive College, it's not correct on your part. Why don't you take it back, why are you telling us this, why are we being cheated on? You mention the Republic of Serbia, so we've been looking at you here for three years as a citizen of the obviously Federation, so you're talking about declarations to build some roads that match people in the Federation. Please, there is an institution of Republika Srpska, you have capacities in the institutions of Republika Srpska, come out with those attitudes when it comes to Republika Srpska in the institutions of Republika Srpska, and you have legitimate constitutional, legal and business rights there, but today we talk here that we want to cheat someone here to get the funds, first of all I want to inform you again, you are in public as a government at the level of joint institutions, you, your staff by Brussels, by other European destinations at different economic and other forums advocate the Reform Agenda, the European way of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You've committed yourself to certain laws of the reform agenda set, that's a fact. What she was. I apologize very briefly, what was the need for my discussion to say, you ask yourself a question, let me make this clear. [[the speaker is warned on time]] How we're going to vote on it is definitely going to decide. [[the speaker is warned on time]] As for you, Mr. Sokolović, just so you know, we haven't reconsidered the work of committees, we've brought our position that we don't want to participate because this Parliament, by the way of the Rules of Procedure, let me remind you, is breaking the Rules of Procedure I've replaced people from the SNSD, remember, this very Parliament, and that's why we left the commission, that's our political position. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Commissions can function without SNSD people Can I make decisions? [[the speaker is warned on time]] I can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21889	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21890	It's a good word to cheat, but here, ultimately, people, citizens of this country, will be deceived. I'm just wondering if this is an emergency procedure to avoid commissions because the SNSD isn't coming to the commission. It would be good for him to answer, for example, Džaferović Šefik, he, uh, a member of the College – are the commissions being avoided because SNSD doesn't come to the commission? So here we see that, yes, this one, we're talking about the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so on these issues, it's fantastic co-operation, when you add vigemarka and cookies to it, then you have guaranteed success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21891	Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21892	.... reported, I even thought of replicating Mr. Mladen Bosić and, of course, when I look at the record, uh, somewhere from '16. In the tenth month, Mr. Bosić here the present members of the SNSD were saying something, I believe they will stick to what they were saying then. I can quote you what they said back then, don't you doubt it, it's possible they'll talk like that. Let's just remind you, Mr. Bosić, let's say Nikola Špirić puts it this way - so it's certain that the increase of excise distributors will be invoiced to the end consumer, i.e. The people, Nikola Špirić says, would be abnormal because we are not the state that makes the administrative pricing, it regulates the market, God Bog it reduces them, says Nikola Špirić. I conclude from this that he will not support this, this excise, Mr. Bosić, I am fully convinced of that. So when I look at Mrs. Majkić's discussion about the procedure, especially when it comes to indirect taxation management and everything Mrs. Majkić said at the time, she assures me that they will not support excises at all at the moment. Of course, I can also quote and it's not a problem it's going to be an opportunity to quote to you when there's a point of the agenda, so now I'm just, I'm just replicating, so, on whether you're going to cheat or not, I'm still convinced that you won't cheat here, because that kind of fraud will then be obvious, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21893	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21894	About that - then.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21895	I'm asking the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21896	As for the Reform Agenda, Mrs. Majkić, and you've talked about it and you know that excises are not part of the Reform Agenda, you know very well, because in the end we're going to have a chance to see now, and of course I've prepared a lot of things when it comes to reading, I have a lot to tell you what you've been saying, it's especially interesting to your so-called. social sensitivity or social component where you cared deeply for citizens if they collect all products of life from fuel, from life supplies, etc. So I'm going to quote you what you said then, and I'm completely 43 convinced that you're going to stay in these attitudes, if you stay in these attitudes, then there's no excise duty on you. Representative Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21898	This is, this is,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21899	Please, no offense, no throwing away. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21900	It would take an awful lot, an awful lot of replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21901	Can we continue the session? ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21902	And we're entitled to two, so this way for more than one at a time. You know, in Sarajevo there used to be a guy named Hastor and he was able to sell the Vijećnica to a guy who's across the street where he's now been selling watermelons in the market.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21903	Whose quote, please, are you referring to?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21904	Staše Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21905	That's so nice of you to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21906	Staše Košarac, my esteemed colleague and so on. And he managed to sell the fog to the man, and he also managed to bring people to drink wood for the winter, to pass aleja to Ilidža, and Frfljo of Sarajevo was famous for rolling matches, and there is no one he did not cheat on. That's how we feel here now. Can you tell us what the whole game is about here, what, what does this have to do with who lives now? This has a lot to do with the standard of citizens present and future, so that we wouldn't be the ones that Hastor sold the Council Vijećnica to, so that we wouldn't be the ones who drank aleja, so that we wouldn't be the ones who fell for Frflja's match return, I beg you as colleagues. to make that effort, to take a break now and come with who's the legislator of this law, not to turn around in circles. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21907	Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go, counsel. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21908	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues here is a key issue actually ownership of this Law, and this is what Collar Prodanović said a few words about, unfortunately not as it is. The owner of the law may be Parliament, may be the Council of Ministers until Parliament adopts it, and a member of our Rules of Procedure under five says the motion has the right to withdraw the proposal no later than 24 hours before the start of the session, which will say that by then it is the owner of the law, after which it becomes the owner of the law. In other words, the House of Nations has taken possession of the law, but it has not prescribed it to itself, but has sent us a law which is the property of the Council of Ministers with a request that we consider it as they will. People in this country steal cigarettes, steal alcohol, steal dry meat, but to steal the law that's the first time, nobody's ever stolen the law, I guess nobody needs the laws... they need to bring more than 40 as much as we've brought in these three years. I really can't understand that it was a problem for colleagues from the House of Peoples, that colleagues from the House of Representatives who will support this Law, one of them to come out with the Emergency Act, to sign down, because they'll definitely be signed when they vote, I guess it's not a problem to convince the citizens that they're good at paying for more expensive fuel, they should be happy that it's more expensive than tolls, and... we're happy people, they get into New Year's very happy. I also heard here that the Council of Ministers could by emergency procedure by fellow Špirić, as if it were an obligation for this law to go according to emergency procedure, so here could the Council of Ministers, not, and then the House of Peoples took the opportunity. Well, I, I really can't believe that we've brought ourselves into this situation and I'm joining all those who ask us to take a break and that some of our colleagues show up transparently and say this is my law and I will defend this law before this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21909	Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21910	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, here's a lot of saying, but just a few clarifications from lawyers in this Parliamentary Assembly, and before I say something that my predecessors have already said, and otherwise I would ask all the predecessors to make one round of persuasion again, because obviously this first conviction is going very badly. So, major injuries have been made to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. I will now quote Article 94 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples who may be the Proposer and Member 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives who may be the Proposer or not quote, you know that. This, but it is evident and this is seen from the call for the 34th session of the People's House that the formal legal proposal is the Council or the Council of Ministers of BiH. In view of this, I would now ask that the lawyers, and primarily Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Arnaut of this position, explain to me whether I am right, so I will quote that you would not make a mistake – no provision of the Rules of Procedure of both homes provides for the possibility that one of the approved legislators can take over someone else's bill and proceed with the legislative procedure. If that's possible, which the people say, I'm going to be banging my ears, if it's not possible, and I'd like you to convince me here, not declaratively, but reasoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21911	Thank you. Representative Nenad Lalić, debate. Here you go, counsel. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21912	Thank you. Here's to listening to this carefully I had a feeling that someone would profit from this ujdurma, if we call it that, I just got a message that a new product was launched in the city in pastries called "Vigemark's Pucker", says the column is as if it's being shared for nothing. This, by analyzing all of our discussions in the past hour, it's clear to me that everything is like a white day and the interests of individuals and groups and political parties, but it's really not clear to me, too, what the people say, I don't really know who the promoter is, so I'd like to hear who it is that proposes this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21913	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, a debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21914	So here's to somehow give me back the full discussion, the complete procedure in accordance with some of the earlier provisions, I would suggest that since we put on the Finance and Budget Committee this set of laws, but the chairman has interrupted the Commission, I would suggest that in the break the first deputy in accordance with Article 35 (1) call on the Finance and Budget Committee and that we set ourselves up by this set of laws and that only then, with that of ours, our determination to continue our work under these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21915	Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go. But I see here second, you've been involved in the debate, so you have no right to debate. We've got Senad Šepić, the correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21916	The chairman sees that this debate... is not trying to bring an end, and we haven't essentially responded to the one, the first dilemma - who's the promoter. I want to help a little bit, here my colleague Salko mentioned, so the two lawyers, as they like to tell themselves to tell the lawyer, to make one joint legal venture between Džaferović and Arnaut and to agree, so to answer us who the promoter is, and until then, on behalf of the Club, I am looking for a half-hour break before we do anything further we expect to have an answer and that we know that we will continue to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21917	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21918	On the website of the Council of Ministers 12.12., the Council of Ministers said from their meeting on 24.11.2017, the conclusions of the 122nd meeting of the Council of Ministers, where they say, were concluded that the draft Act on Excises, i.e. the set of excise laws, was delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that it was considered in a shortened procedure. So they did not say to deliver it only to the House of Nations by a brief procedure, so that the House of Nations might consider how it would proceed. And on the other hand, I would like to, and if this deal goes through today with you sitting in the ruling coalition, we will insist on every next session when it is possible for us to ask the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers why he did not immediately refer to the parliamentary procedure as an emergency procedure and end it all with votes, you have a ruling coalition, a grand coalition, you choose fine in, you vote in the House of Peoples, you support the urgent procedure, you finish the story, you end up here without harassing us or yourself. So, we insist that you as a College, because you say that you are not in charge as a peddler, you are also in charge of answering some of the questions, because you as a College Chairman are behind the agenda that you are proposing. We'd like you to answer when the bill promoter is?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21919	Thank you. There are no more reported at this time. I'm closing the debate on the agenda of today's session. Thank you. You've violated, Agent Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, because you've said the wrong thing, and you haven't referred to who, you've read to us from the Council of Ministers. As for representatives who appeared today under discussion on the agenda, certain colleagues from Saša Magazinović, Aleksandra Pandurević, MPs Bećirović, Šepić, Backović, Emrić, Sokolović and all others asked that points 3rd, 4th and 5th even some of them were not individually or listed but were talking about the set, somewhere in this point, somewhere in the excise area, I carefully recorded it, they asked to be removed from the agenda. I would like to remind all MPs that, in accordance with Article 133(2), the request referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be considered at the next House, the House shall decide on the request after the debate. So, we have received this proposal from the House of People by emergency procedure, and as far as the agenda is concerned, I want to tell you that the College in the extended composition has established the agenda of today's session, including these three points. Furthermore, we had the proposals by Aleksandra Pandurević and MP Šepić for the inclusion of new points, except for their proposal for a conclusion in order to call it, we did not receive written material for one point as required by Article 71 that, at the beginning of each session, the MP and each authorised promoter have the right to request the absence of an optional point and to propose a new one with the relevant material in writing. I therefore find that the 54th session of the House of Nations has its agenda [[Common discussion]] Please, 47.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21921	Don't force...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21922	No, I'm not raping anything, I... I explained and I said that the agenda was established by the College in an extended composition, I find, this is the mandatory point of 3rd, 4th and 5th, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Mandatory Point of the Agenda. [[Common discussion]] I find that the 54th session has the agenda that you received in the materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21924	Just read it, read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21925	You don't need to read it because it's the agenda they got in the materials and that's determined in, uh, please. [[Common discussion]] Agenda 1. Comments on questions received; 2. The request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No: 01-02-1-133/17 of 25.07.2017; 3. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2808/17 of 11.12.2017; 4. Request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2809/17 of 11.12.2017; 5. The request of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2810/17 of 11.12.2017; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Number: 01,02-02-1-2015/17 of 09.08.2017. (neglected procedure), (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and other fees in the judicial and prosecutorial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers 48 BiH, issue: 01,02-02-1-2338/17 of 29 September 2017, with Opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Representatives Salko Sokolović, Senad Šepić and Sadik Ahmetović, issue: 01-02- 1-2400/17 of 09.10.2017. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Act, Proposer: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, issue: 01-02-1-2397/17 of 09.10.2017. (first reading); 10. Information on the results of price-to-service harmonisation and technical quality of mybil phone services in BiH with prices in the region and Europe, applicant: BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01-50-11290/17, link number: 01-50-1-572/17 of 22.09.2017. (realising the parliamentary initiative adopted at the follow-up of the 48th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives, held on 05.07.2017).; 11. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct the selection procedure of one member of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance from the Serbian People, Proposer: Joint College of both PSBiH homes, issue: 01,02-34-1-2474/17 of 25.10.2017; 12. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, material: Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal, issue: 01,02-34-1-2683/17 of 14.11.2017; 13. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending the Law on Road Safety at Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposer: Agent Momčilo Novaković, issue: 01-02-1-1374/17 of 30.05.2017.; 14. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Committee of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection and Wellbeing Act (proposer: representative Predrag Kožul, Law No: 01-02-1-814/17 of 23.03.2017.The Bible’s Viewpoint (Sambly), 2 / 15 Opinion of the Association for the Protection of Foreign Savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No: 01-50-17-2410/17 of 28.11.2017, with notice of the Committee on Finance and Budget, No: 01/4-50-3-2410,56/17 of 29.11.2017; 16. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on European Partnership, No 01,02-05-2-2392/17 of 06.10.2017; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the Framework Agreement on the loan of 28 May 2013 between the Council of Europe and Bosnia and Herzegovina Development Bank for the financing of the Health Strengthening Project – Phase 2. LD 1747 (2011), number: 01,02-05-2411/17 of 09.10.2017; 18. Adherence to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Union on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Third Programme for the Action of the Union in the field of health (2014-2020)) number: 01,02-05-2-2413/17 of 09.10.2017; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of tourism, No 01,02-05-22415/17 of 09.10.2017; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Financial Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for 2016, number: 01,02-05-2475/17 of 20.10.2017. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21931	...that you don't choose to make a statement about my point for which I have the prepared material and which has gone to copying.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21932	And why didn't you deliver it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21933	Delivered, point on the agenda of the candle fellows have... give a break half an hour. Here they will be delivered in half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21934	Are we at point one? We're at point one, and I'm giving a half-hour break at the request of Agent Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21935	We're not at point one, we're not. 50 [[Common discussion]] We're not at point one. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21938	We're moving on with the session. Point one – Comments on questions received. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedures of the House of Questions and Initiatives in writing were submitted by the following representatives: Nenad Lalić asked the question of the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs; Senad Šepić asked two questions to the Council of Ministers; Mirsad Đonlagić sent the initiative to the College of the House; Damir Arnaut asked questions from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and asked the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH, the Minister of Justice of BiH, the Minister of Civil Affairs of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance and the Treasury, the Joint Committee for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly; Predrag Gasal-Vražalica asked questions to the Government of the Federation, the Federal Ministry of Finance and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury; Saša Ahmetović asked questions to all ministers in the Council of Ministers; Nermina KapetanovićKožul asked questions of the Ministers and the Ministers of the Council of BiH. Chief Prosecutor Gordana Tadić; Nenad Lalić asked questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, the Federation government and the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports. The following answers were submitted to today's session: The questions of Saša Magazinović, written in writing on 49, 53 and 54, were provided by the Council of Ministers; the questions of Senad Šepić, which were asked in writing on 48, 51, 52 and 53, were submitted by the Council of Ministers, and asked in oral form on 53. The Council of Ministers forwarded the answer to the Board of Justice for indirect taxation of BiH; to the question of representatives of Damir Nenad-Demirović in written form at the Pandurević session, the answer was submitted by the Ministry of Health and Social Policy Canton of Central Bosnia, and to the questions asked in writing by the document of the 54th session of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, followed by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; the document of Mr. Salko Sokolović, issued in oral form at the 2nd joint meeting of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Lalić by the reply of the Board of Ministers of Ministers to the question of Sadik taxation; the Fazlić of Mr. Đonlagić, addressed the question Damir Nermina Kapetanović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers, the Council of BiH, the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Court of Ministers, the Court of Ministers, the Court of Ministers, the Court of Justice of Ministers, the Europeans and the Europeans of Justice of Denis of Bećirović, the Europeans, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Europeans and the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Europeans, the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council, Mirsad European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council of the Council, the Council, the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, the Council, So who wants to comment on the answers received? Representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21939	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the DF Club for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21940	I'm taking a break at the DF Club's request for half an hour. We're moving on with the session. I'd like the vice president of the DF Club to explain the reasons for the pause.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21942	We have some consultations with the SDP, but in the building, so we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21943	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21944	Madam Chairman, on behalf of the Independent Block Club, I've been looking for a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21945	At the request of the Independent Block, I'm giving a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21946	Half an hour minimum, don't rush. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21947	We're moving on with the session. Representative Damir Arnaut, but I can't see here,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21948	dobor, he's gone, he's gone, then we move on. _________(?) Do we have a quorum?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21949	We have a quorum, we just don't see it explaining our reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21950	Go on, if you're not there, you're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21951	We don't see any colleagues explaining the reasons for asking for a break, but here we go with the session. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go. _________(?) We've been looking for a break for half an hour. [[no microphone turned on]] He received the word of MP Damir Arnaut, after that you can, because before that I gave the word to the commentary, but here I don't see him either at this point, so I'm taking a break at the SDP Club's request for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21961	I thank the chairman. Looks like it's something with the system out there, I said it before. This, comments, parliamentary issues, so I am extremely pleased with the answer of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, these are really examples of a response where the competent ministry recognises that the MP has noticed the problem and then they are working to fix the problem. 54 As for the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and BHRT, the Board of Directors of BHRT, I am extremely dissatisfied, even with bold answers and this, I am announcing my business opportunity to ask additional parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21962	Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21963	I thank the chairman. Well, I'm in the sixth month, I think we all remember that there have been a lot of comments related to the problem of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in that context, the British Embassy has drawn attention to its citizens not to travel to Bosnia and Herzegovina and I've asked the Security Minister in the sixth month and I have to say that I've got the answer, now it's about half a year, and I don't think it's best that after six months I get that answer, is it quite an emergency topic? That answer did not show me that we as a state intervened in, at the British Embassy or anywhere in some relevant British institution regarding such a one warning, and the answer said that there was no information related to this threat of terrorism, and I think in such cases the really competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should react, so as to request either an additional explanation or to draw attention to the government or the foreign ministry that sent the warning to its citizens. By the way, I'm happy with the answer, but here I'm saying I didn't get the time when I got that answer and maybe some reaction that doesn't stand here that, and if it wasn't for that, it wasn't registered. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21964	Thank you. Representative Nenad Lalić, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21965	Thank you. On my parliamentary question – Is there any advice for sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Uh, I got the answer, thank you for the BiH Council of Ministers' delivered response, or the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, which shows that I was right about the issue. It is evident that part of the job was done by the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports of Republika Srpska, then the BiH Olympic Committee and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, but that the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports still failed to fulfil its legal obligation, so I referred my parliamentary question to them and delivered it to the pisarnica. And also, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break, on behalf of the SDS Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21966	Please state on behalf of which club are you looking for?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21967	SDS, I said. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21968	Just to comment, at the beginning of this point on behalf of the Club of Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević asked for a break and was given on behalf of the Club at this point on the agenda, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21969	It's not her.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21970	So, the SDS under this point has no right to request a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21971	Please, see the stenogram, if I was asked to explain the break and if I explained the break. [[no microphone turned on]] Can I have a stenogram, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21972	Because you didn't come.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21973	So if, if we were looking for a break then you had to give us a word and explain that request, the stenogram will be easy to see.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21974	Please, at this point we have exhausted the debate by comment, point 2. Coming through, point 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21975	Business is looking for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21976	We move to point two, and we ask for an emergency to be referred to outstanding questions and to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of BiH, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Civil Affairs of BiH, the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance and Treasury, the Joint Committee of Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly; Predrag Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazica asked questions to the Federation Government, the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury; Saša Magazinović asked questions to all ministers in the Council of Ministers; jasmin Emrić asked the question to the Federals of the Federation; Mirsad Đonlagić asked questions to the Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH and the College of the Parliamentary House of Representatives; Sadik Ahmetović asked the question to the Ministry of Civil Affairs; Nermina Kapetanović asked the Council of Ministers; he asked the Council of BiH. Chief Prosecutor Gordana Tadić; Nenad Lalić asked questions to the BiH Council of Ministers, the Federation government and the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports. 56 The following answers were submitted to today's session: The questions of Saša Magazinović, written in 49th, 53rd and 54th, were provided by the Council of Ministers; the questions of Senad Šepić, which were asked in writing on 48th, 51st, 52nd and 53rd, were sent by the Council of Ministers, and asked in oral form in 53rd. The Council of Ministers followed the Đonlagić of the Board of Justice to BiH's indirect taxation; to the issue of the representative Mirsad Gasal-Vražalica-Amir in Fazlić form at the 51st session, the answer was submitted by the Ministry of Health and Social Policy Canton of Central Bosnia, and to the questions raised in writing in the preparation of the 54th session of the Government of the Federation by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Lalić by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; the issue Damir Arnaut Salko Sokolović, issued in oral form at the 2nd joint session of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Ministers of BiH, was followed by a response to the question of the Court of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was referred to the question of the Nenad of Ministers of Ministers of BiH's response to the issue of Justice's response to the question. The Damir of Bećirović, the question of the questions addressed to Nermina question of the answer, the question of the Court of the Sadik of the Ahmetović, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the European Parliament, the Court of Justice, the Court of the Council, the Court, the Court, the Court, the Demirović of the Safer of the Council, the Court of the Council, the Court of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Council, the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Council, the Council of the European of the Council, the Court of the Denis, the Council of the European of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council, the Council, the Council, the European. So who wants to comment on the answers received? Representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21977	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the DF Club for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21978	I'm taking a break at the DF Club's request for half an hour. We're moving on with the session. I'd like the vice president of the DF Club to explain the reasons for the pause. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21980	We have some consultations with the SDP, but in the building, so we have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21981	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21982	Madam Chairman, on behalf of the Independent Block Club, I've been looking for a break for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21983	At the request of the Independent Block, I'm giving a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21984	Half an hour minimum, don't rush.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21985	We're moving on with the session. Representative Damir Arnaut, but I can't see here,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21986	dobor, he's gone, he's gone, then we move on. _________(?) Do we have a quorum?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21987	We have a quorum, we just don't see it explaining our reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21988	Go on, if you're not there, you're moving on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21989	We don't see any colleagues explaining the reasons for asking for a break, but here we go with the session. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go. _________(?) We've been looking for a break for half an hour. [[no microphone turned on]] 58 He received the word of MP Damir Arnaut, after that you can, because before that I gave the word to the commentary, but here I don't see him either at this point, so I'm taking a break at the SDP Club's request for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u21999	I thank the chairman. Looks like it's something with the system out there, I said it before. This, comments, parliamentary issues, so I am extremely pleased with the answer of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, these are really examples of a response where the competent ministry recognises that the MP has noticed the problem and then they are working to fix the problem. As for the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and BHRT, the Board of Directors of BHRT, I am extremely dissatisfied, even with bold answers and this, I am announcing my business opportunity to ask additional parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22000	Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22001	I thank the chairman. Well, I'm in the sixth month, I think we all remember that there have been a lot of comments related to the problem of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in that context, the British Embassy has drawn attention to its citizens not to travel to Bosnia and Herzegovina and I've asked the Security Minister in the sixth month and I have to say that I've got the answer, now it's about half a year, and I don't think it's best that after six months I get that answer, is it quite an emergency topic? That answer did not show me that we as a state intervened in, at the British Embassy or anywhere in some relevant British institution regarding such a one warning, and the answer said that there was no information related to this threat of terrorism, and I think in such cases the really competent institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should react, so as to request either an additional explanation or to draw attention to the government or the foreign ministry that sent the warning to its citizens. By the way, I'm happy with the answer, but here I'm saying I didn't get the time when I got that answer and maybe some reaction that doesn't stand here that, and if it wasn't for that, it wasn't registered. Here, thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22002	Thank you. Representative Nenad Lalić, comment. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22003	Thank you. On my parliamentary question – Is there any advice for sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Uh, I got the answer, thank you for the BiH Council of Ministers' delivered response, or the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, which shows that I was right about the issue. It is evident that part of the job was done by the Ministry of Family, Youth and Sports of Republika Srpska, then the BiH Olympic Committee and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, but that the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports still failed to fulfil its legal obligation, so I referred my parliamentary question to them and delivered it to the pisarnica. And also, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break, on behalf of the SDS Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22004	Please state on behalf of which club are you looking for?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22005	SDS, I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22006	Just to comment, at the beginning of this point on behalf of the Club of Representatives Aleksandra Pandurević asked for a break and was given on behalf of the Club at this point on the agenda, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22007	It's not her.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22008	So, the SDS under this point has no right to request a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22009	Please, see the stenogram, if I was asked to explain the break and if I explained the break. [[no microphone turned on]] Can I have a stenogram, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22010	Because you didn't come.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22011	So if, if we were looking for a break then you had to give us a word and explain that request, the stenogram will be easy to see. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22012	Please, at this point we have exhausted the debate by comment, point 2. Coming through, point 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22013	Business is looking for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22014	Moving to point two, Ad. 2. The request of the People's House to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent legislative procedure, in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, No: 01-02-1-133/17 of 25.07.2017 The legislative and legal sector submitted its opinion on 02.08.2017, which found that the draft law did not comply with Article 105 of the Treaty. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, i.e. that no opinions of the competent institutions have been delivered in addition to the bill, as well as a version of the consolidated text of the Law. The proposal is 20.10.2017. To the House of Representatives, the necessary opinions and the unofficially consolidated text of the Law, the Legislative Sector delivered its opinion on 25.10.2017, establishing that the proposal for a law is in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate on the procedure of the law. Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22016	I'm looking for a half-hour break and I'm asking to be delivered if I've explained the request for a previous break and if I've been given my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22017	At the request of the SDS Club, I'm giving a half-hour break on this agenda point. We have a quorum. We continue with the session, although we don't have this time to explain the request for a break. But before I go, I will limit, in accordance with Article 72(f) to, just a little bit, point 27(f) to limit the debate to all the following points for 5 minutes. Damir Bećirović, a correction to the wrong allegations. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22019	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the DF Club for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22020	On behalf of the DF Club, I'm giving a half-hour break. At this point we have a quorum, we continue to work. I don't see a club president explaining the reasons for asking for a break. We have Agent Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22022	I thank the chairman. Article 74(3) of the Rules of Procedure states that, in the absence of a proposal for an act, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. Here's point 2. We don't have an act promoter for this point 2 and I suggest that since no one suggests that we make a statement about it, we simply move on to the point of the 3rd agenda, because we don't have the conditions for point 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22023	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22024	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22025	Okay. In accordance with Article 74(3), there is no problem, we can move since there is no proposer at the next item of the agenda, so this remains in the follow-up session. So it's an acceptable request. We move on to, not to say, but to the point of the 3rd agenda, but before we move to point 3. I suggest we unify the debate on points 3, 4 and 5 on the urgency of the procedure of these three laws. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, okay. If we don't have a quorum, we had a quorum. _________(?) 63 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22030	I'm on behalf of the SDP Club looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22031	At the request of the SDP Club, I'm giving a half-hour break. I'm not waiting for anyone else. Do we have a quorum? We're going on with the session, we just don't have Saša. I'm taking a break to ensure... 65 /
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22033	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22034	We've got quorum, we've got agents joining us. We're continuing for, I don't see the president here, just a little bit, the president of the SDP Club, to explain the reasons for the break. Coming up, will the president explain the reasons for asking for a break? Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22035	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22037	Consultations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22038	Debate, jasmin Emrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22039	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The proposed emergency procedure for the adoption of amendments to the Excise Act is not in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives because the conditions for emergency proceedings have not been met. Article 133. The Rules of Procedure provide that the Proposer may, in written form, ask the House to consider the proposal for a high degree of urgency or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected in a gradual manner in a single reading. The proposed Law has been in the legislative process several times and has been focused almost a year on the work of this House, indicating that it is not an emergency at all, but is fully justified that this very important law is being considered in the ordinary legislative procedure. This Law is not at all formulated in such a simple way as the Rules of Procedure of this House requires, in order for it to be urgent, but rather a complex law which will have an unforeseeable impact on the overall economic and social environment in this country. The importance and complexity of this Act is also reflected in the fact that the citizens of this country are very upset by the proposed increase in excise and toll, and that there is an open complete uncertainty about the crops that will occur in the event of the adoption of this set of proposed amendments to the Excise Act. The promoter did not explain anything about the urgency of the proposed amendments to the Excise Act and the laws accompanying these amendments, but only formally requested an emergency procedure. If these proposed amendments to the Excise Act are so simple, then why are amendments and additions to a set of laws that must follow the amendments in question and supplement the Excise Act? In my view, that the law should be formulated in such a simple way as to determine the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, then its amendments and additions should not have a consequent link with other laws, i.e. those amendments and additions should not cover amendments and additions to the sets of laws. Accordingly, the importance and complexity of the proposed amendments and additions, I appreciate that the emergency procedure for this set of laws is not justified and that they should be referred to the ordinary legislative procedure. Officially, this proposal for amending and supplementing the Excise Act is not in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in 66 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore cannot be adopted in an emergency procedure. In the second chapter of the Single Rules, the structure and content of the reasoning of the regulations are prescribed. Article 60 provides that the justification of the rules contains : b) the reasons for the introduction of the rules and the explanation of the policy chosen, and further Article 62 sets out what the reasons for the introduction of the rules must be. Among other things, it has been found that the reasons for the introduction of the rules must be based on clear evidence that the introduction of the rules is justified and must be specifically stated : (a) an analysis of the current situation, where is the analysis of the current situation in these amendments and the addition of the set of laws? There is no analysis of the current situation, there is no analysis of the current situation for such a serious law, b) the value of which has been conducted by the processor and the current policy of the institution in relation to them, no values that the processor has conducted when proposing toll increase by 15 fening, or for more than half of the current total toll and oil derivatives. Not listed on the basis of which indicator the applicant has determined to increase the toll of 15 fening, c) probability of profit from the introduction of regulations based on a realistic assessment of the effectiveness of an institution. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Not listed anywhere, nor explained profit from the proposed increase in excise and toll How much is the profit, how much is the total increase at the annual level, where is this real assessment of the amount of financial resources to be raised for the proposed increase? [[the speaker is warned on time]] No, there's nothing in this proposal, and it's an obligation prescribed by the Single Rules. Article 62. Unique...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22040	I'm warning the counsel that time is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22041	I apologize, this is a very important law, and you've cut the discussion to five minutes, and I can't say everything I have in five minutes, and about the proposed law.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22042	Yes, that's right, we've shortened the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you to finish, here's a sentence to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22043	Here, it would only take a few more minutes, Article 62. The uniform rules should also be laid down as follows, whenever possible, the reasons for the regulation and the explanation of the policy chosen should also be based on evidence that the debate was conducted and on alternative forms of regulation given to matter. Is there perhaps an alternative to the proposed toll increase?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22044	I'm warning the MP to bring an end to the debate or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22045	Thank you very much. 67 The Proposer does not treat it anywhere, and it is mandatory if he wants the proposed law to comply with the rules
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22046	I take away your word, I take away the counsel's word after the warning because you've broken your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22047	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22048	Thank you very much. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22049	Today, democracy has definitely died in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and since you regularly refer to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH and I will take the opportunity to invite you to respect Article 75. The House of Representatives, Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, position (2) – the legislator has the right and the obligation to explain the bill or the law before the start of the debate, since we have united it all, is it, up to 15 minutes. We don't know who the legislator is at this point, we're asking for the adoption of the agenda so that you as a College can tell us who the bill's proposing is, how there's been a violation of the legislative procedure, only when I see who's going to go out for that pay phone to honor Article 75(2), to explain how, what. Here we have seen how my colleague Emrić, and indeed 5 minutes of talking about such important laws in 5 minutes will change, you expect us to devote 5 minutes to these laws, and to change the fate of citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 5 minutes. If the promoter has listened to my distinguished colleague who has truly committed himself to these laws, he may at least have written something down, and since he is probably not addressed to the subject, because from these parties from which you come, he should not be devoted to matter, in essence, he should just come and be a voting machine, to vote on what is best for you and your headquarters, and that our citizens and citizens are getting more and more miserable every day, I call on you to be a member of Article 75(2).
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22050	At this point, we have a promoter in front of the House of Peoples, the chairman of Softić. If there is a need, at the request of a representative, someone has assessed, and he himself has no need. Will you? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please be nice, the promoter has the right to say something afterwards. At this point, we continue the debate. Senad Šepić, the debate. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22052	Madam Chairman, so we'll take the stenograms of this session of yours today, and we'll go over it, we'll all listen to you as a lawyer and your colleague Džaferović as a lawyer, run this session, what do you do, how do you try people sitting here in this hall to make fools, so believe it
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22053	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22054	We'll look at everything, so you act like it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22055	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22056	You're acting like one, so a member of the 70s told you well, your colleague, it's not working here if he has a need, he has a duty to do it. Now, you're interpreting that article in the 70s, this, the Rules of Procedure, so now you're doing it to your lawyer, as it is called, and you're trying to explain to us whether he should or shouldn't. He says he has an obligation, Madam Chairman. He has an obligation. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22057	When you're done, I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22058	So, here's what I'm going to say...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22059	Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22060	I have my word, I know I have my word, and I'll talk about it. So, the stenogram and all this how you ran the session, and I'm going to ask people, and here and I'm going to ask my colleagues who are suffering all of what you're doing today, and I believe that sometimes you're going to be ashamed of everyone for doing this in this way, you know what you're doing and what's behind it, but I think it's important that we know that part of it, and that people in this country know that too. So, my colleague Emrić was procedurally well-spoken, so it's evident that no water is being drank here today, that he drinks water that they agree, as it is called, those handles as they agreed and there are no rules, constitution, law, state, procedure. Those who swear most to the state, therefore, are now working with this relationship most against the state. Here, so I'm saying it, so when we read these stenograms, let this be found in this stenogram too. So here today we have multiple violations and procedures, and laws, and Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, Rule 70, not to mention, item one, second, third. It's said well, colleague Emrić, no analysis of the current situation, no respect for the unique rules, we've written something, we've made 69 deals, all of which you've mostly been classy, the regime's lawyers have convinced us what it's called, what it's called, so here you see today how you behave, how you behave, how you act.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22061	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22062	according to what you are
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22063	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22064	So you did it. In that sense, you've convinced us as lawyers how it should be done, so let's just say, you see how you're acting today. My colleague Softić, therefore, publicly comes out for a pay phone and says, "It is our interest to bypass the procedure, to skip what is called the possibility that people whom the people have chosen, and someone here today has said well, those who have been elected, or delegated there by the will of party headquarters, will assume the right to decide on this people, and, therefore, deny and take away the right to those whom the people have given the right to represent them, and you who sit here allow it." You have your own, as it is called, some small, tiny interests, and that's good, and we'll talk about it, and it'll all, like all of this, come out where it's supposed to go. So the question again - who is the promoter, who are we talking to? Here, now I will read you here again, so emergency procedure, 133 today we are talking about an emergency procedure here, to remind you of what it says here, Article 133 of the emergency procedure - the proposer may request, and therefore it is important to know who the promoter is, in writing from the House, a review in a reading of the proposal of a high degree of urgency law or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected as a whole. The request and paragraph (1) of this Article shall be considered at the next meeting of the House. The House shall decide on the request after the hearing. This reminds you, let me remind you, we here today in Article 133 need to determine something, and look at what it says in Article 133. – when a debate is held on this request, it shall be voted upon. If adopted, the House continues to debate and vote on the bill. On the bill's proposal, listen well to this, the bill can be submitted to the amendment in writing until the final debate on the Bill's proposal is concluded, only if the amendment concerns the correcting of obvious normative and printing errors in the text of the bill's proposal and the 4th if the House does not accept the motion, and we still don't know who the Proposer is, whose what we should accept, I mean what we're talking about, who we're talking about tomorrow should be photographed and put there somewhere, as it is called, on some note, to ask who brought this in this way to the Parliamentary Assembly, although I've talked about before - not Safete, but here He didn't listen to my friend Safet [[the speaker is warned on time]] If the House does not accept the application of the motion to consider the proposal for an emergency procedure, the Madam Chairman of the House shall decide whether the Law will be considered in accordance with the provisions [[the speaker is warned on time]] It shall be governed by a shortened or regular legislative procedure. [[the speaker is warned on time]] To make any of this clear, and this is the act by which we should be working here in the Parliamentary Assembly, it would be a fundamental question to say who is the Proposer of this Law and to know what we are going to do next. And I repeat, there is no question here whether there is any need to come out to say something to us, therefore, who is obliged to go out and say here in the Parliamentary Assembly, to explain this law and to take a public picture and stand behind this proposal, in this way, sent to Parliament. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22065	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. In no way have I denied a business provision that speaks of the proposing explaining his Law, and I, as chairman, cannot force anyone, nor can I give a word before anyone asks. Momčilo Novaković, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22066	I thank the chairman. Article 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure (1) (f) which states that the Chairman of the dom restricts the duration of the debate on one or more issues if necessary to ensure that the adopted agenda is considered as a whole. Point 2 says – in the performance of the abovementioned duties as chairman of the House, he consults with the vice-president. I'm interested in whether consultations have been carried out and whether the vice-presidents have given consent to limit the debate to five minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22067	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22068	This, of course, is clear here, I guess more than clear that the consultations are not formal but essential in nature, that is, if one of the deputies disagrees that the chairman cannot shorten the debate on his own.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22069	Thank you. I am before every session in the consultation with my colleagues when we schedule a session, and in the extended college I point out, at this one, and at the last session, every time we say that we will shorten the debate, because we have an operational reason, because we haven't finished the sessions well since when and I've been standing by this request that I explained. Mladen Bosić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22070	So the correction of the wrong assumption is that I didn't participate in any consultations and I didn't give any consent, and here's because I don't need my consent, because the chairman by the statute understands that he has the right to decide for himself ___________(?) 71 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, after consultation, not after consent, but not for that purpose. So, the point is that this Parliament will no longer be the same as it would have gone tonight, the purpose of mutual disrespect is primarily in the College, the relationship to one of the members of the College, the way the chairman didn't want me as a deputy to say the word when it was a story about determining the agenda is something that will remain here and remain as a problem. I really didn't expect this relationship because Parliament is the place where we talk, where we should hear both conflicted and fierce attitudes, but political violence among people who need to cooperate, which we saw here tonight about trying to force this one, so here I can't say dirty work, but the way they want this job done is something that I'm not happy with tonight that I'm not attending this session because there aren't, these things don't work out in this way, these things are solved by a minimum of consensus, because this is too important a thing. You'll see that this is an important thing, you'll be the next month or two days, not tonight, not tomorrow, but you'll see in two months that this is an important thing and that it will leave the consequences of relations and in this House, and in general, relations that, with communication between people, and I'm sorry that I attended this tonight. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22072	Thank you. Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22073	I don't know what to call this, so I signed up for it, but I suggest you sit down and make a little deal. Otherwise, I think it would be desirable for this House to vote on trust when it comes to yours, because if such relations are
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22074	I warn you, Your Honor, that you are misusing the Rules of Procedure and I ask you,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22075	Thank you, ma'am, but I don't know what to call it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22076	Please. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22077	The real allegation is really to open up the responsibility issue of the College... What you are doing today has not been recorded in the first month after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor then. I think that this way of holding a session, breaking the rules of this country doesn't lead anywhere, even if this Mr. Wigemark, whom your colleague, Mr. Džaferović, praises more than any of his colleagues in this House, knows that Mr. Wigemark exclusively accounts for his boss, Carl Bildt, who, if he wants me to remind him, plays an interesting role somewhere before 11 July '95. A year. If you want us to open up those questions of these beautiful people that you keep listening to and think it's the only and best solution, what they tell you about this country, about this people, 72, then that's your problem. If you want to open questions about the impact on Bosnia and Herzegovina's tax policy and Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty, that it has come exclusively from Zagreb and that some MPs here have been lobbyed exclusively by the prime minister of Croatia, we can also talk about it. It's all embarrassing for everything that's going on here today and tonight in Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we're in no condition, the three of you mostly, [[the speaker is warned on time]] to lead in a modern way [[the speaker is warned on time]] This Dom, then really [[the speaker is warned on time]] You deserve to be discussed [[the speaker is warned on time]] about your [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22078	Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22079	Thank you very much. I asked if the consultations were done, you said they were, then the vice president came out and said they weren't. Therefore, it is not true that consultations have been carried out to limit the duration of the debate, I ask you, Madam Chairman, to carry out consultations with the deputies or not to shorten the debate, or to allow the debate to take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22080	I repeat once again and call on the secretary present at the College's session to explain the consultations on the shorting of the debate, so that the session can be held in full. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22081	Good evening, everyone. We discussed yesterday at a session of the College, uh, the House of Representatives about preparing for this session and agreed at the College to unite all audit reports of 73 institutions and it was mentioned that
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22082	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22083	And the debates limit to five minutes and I can say that, and they're familiar and there was no disdain at the College. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22084	I repeat again, we discussed one session at the College. So, today's sequel, today's session, and the second session, and we discussed to bring together a point in this set of laws, we discussed tomorrow's session to bring together audit reports, and in the context of that, one session and another session, because we have a session on the 21st session, I said I would shorten the debate for 5 minutes. I didn't have any objections. 73 We continue with the session. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22085	The Honorable Chairman, while my colleague, i.e. after the discussion of counterpart Šepić, you have violated Article 78, is a member who speaks of participation in the debate of the Chairman or Chairman of the House. Also, now that the secretary has mixed the dates and agendas You have reached out, i.e. you answer to my colleague Momčilo Novaković from his place and you are breaking, you are breaking, which has already become a procedure and one norm in this House that the chairman of the House of Representatives is hiding his Rules of Procedure, I request that he be recorded as being violated on several occasions by Article 78.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22086	Thank you very much. I find that I have not violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't take part in the debate, I'm running a session right now. jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22087	I thank the chairman. Unless consultations were carried out, then there should have been no short discussion, and in that case you, the Honorable Chairman, injured the Rules of Procedure because you shortened my discussion, and I just needed that time to present my entire discussion because you repeatedly interrupted me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22088	And this time you broke the Rules of Procedure. Nermina Kapetanović, correction, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22089	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'll tell you something I wanted to tell you in the past, at one of the last sessions when things like this happened, Article 79. — measures in the event of non-compliance with the rules of procedure or rules of procedure. The House chairman maintains order during the House session, all present are obliged to follow his instructions. The House Speaker may warn an MP who does not respect the order or provisions of this MP by his or her conduct or speech during the House session (?) (5) Under the non-compliance of the order, the insult of MPs and others present is meant, (b) frequent entry into the word, (c) non-compliance with the notice of the chairman of the dom. You are in... in Article 79(3) and (4) shall mean that the MP who has been warned twice during the same session has been warned, and these have been more so today, because of the non-compliance with the order and provisions of this MP, that the right of speech is denied until the end of the session, if he still does not respect the order and application of this Rules of Procedure and that you can, in the position (4), be said to be able to make a distance measure. Why am I saying that? Today, I mean, we have the right to different political sightings, but to demonstrate such a harsh speech, this has already grown to hate speech. Someone just threw a harsh insult at 74 colleagues, that this is an example for The Hague, that you should be sent to The Hague, I don't know if you heard it, you and Mr. Džaferović. Insulting the dignity of lawyers, Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Arnaut, during today's session, you may love them or not to love your colleagues, but honoring them that they are not good lawyers, you can't do it either, but you can't, we can't, we can't think differently politically, the insults given to officials of the international community are in the least ugly. It is not a good message from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that has the Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct, it is not a good message that we send to him at all from this hall, first we do not respect each other, we do not act, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure. You've had the opportunity to react several times even though I advocate freedom of speech, but tossing out of place, banging my hands on the table, I've never seen it, it's simple, never to this day. Is it a way for us to verbally communicate with each other and express our disagreement with some law by baptizing each other with hands of a hundred? Excuse me, as a doctor, I think certain people have a diagnosis here, psychiatricly. I can't have elected officials representing the people watching this session, not getting a good message, to whom are we sending a message with fists of a hundred and an insult to the international community? I ask you to, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and Article 79, you have this mechanism, you commit the representatives to normal behavior in the O.R. and to normal articulation of your political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22090	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22091	So you see that article there in 79, this was a really hard insult to the MPs. To tell someone he needs a neuropsychiatrist, it's the most difficult insult ever given here in Parliament. So here to tell your colleagues that someone's crazy, that he needs a psychiatrist is the biggest insult we've ever heard. _________(?) She needs it. So, I, so take the stenogram and see. What I'm saying is I'm responsible, I haven't offended anyone, I've said it and I repeat it, so this country has its sovereignty. If she had in Belgrade, then she must also have sovereignty in tax policy, so no, what I'm saying is true, and I represent the the thesis that this country has its sovereignty in foreign and tax policy, that there is no influence of any wigemarka, nor any Plenković on what should be brought in this House. This is no offense and I think, I think we're bored from a colleague, all those who spoke, I don't know who everyone thought we were, is very, very, very offended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22093	Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22094	I haven't, I haven't heard the connection of members of Parliament's leadership to The Hag, so I can't comment, but I have heard the claim that some MPs have a diagnosis, which I find inappropriate at least. I agree with Mr. Bosić that no matter how this session ends, there will be no more the same thing here, it is one thing to disagree, to have different political views, different opinions, cross arguments, and the other thing is what happens today. Most of it used to exist, it didn't, but this Parliament worked. Laws have been passed, decisions have been adopted, declarations, something has not been adopted, but Parliament has been working. I fear that this will not be possible in the next period of Parliament's leadership. Procedures were respected, as this is the only way Parliament can function and that is the only thing this Parliament has done to Parliament. At the moment when procedures were usurped, democracy, when the attack on parliamentaryism was carried out, the attack was made on the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and in the next period you have no right to challenge anyone as a leadership of any kind under quotes creativity, which will do whatever comes to mind, because you have shown that instead of protecting this Parliament, its dignity, you have allowed us to go to the full extreme of the end of the will, here I am glad that the chairman of the Council of Ministers come, and even his statements and promises and this is the first time he's done it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I do not blame you because man has promised and directed the law to Parliament according to procedure as [[the speaker is warned on time]] said, transparently, the amendment phase, so that's changed. [[the speaker is warned on time]] I think it would be good if you as a college took a break 20 minutes, 15, 5, how long it took you to try to get things back to normal. I'm saying this for the best of purposes, that you three try to consult each other. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22095	I'm warning you on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22096	And I'm warning you we'll be looking for breaks by morning, I'm trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22097	It's your right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22098	I'm trying to find out, if you want this other variant, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22099	It's your right, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22100	There is a brief discussion without consultation. It wasn't, it wasn't necessary to do it, so we just started, this is the fifth discussion, you've already cut it short. If you'd cut to the 10th point, I'd have said okay, but we just started working, and this is who The money, did he take it? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Did he take [[the speaker is warned on time]] Who is the influencer and the story will be opened, and whoever takes the money ends up in prison, then we will see if they will be. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And tied to the excises. [[the speaker is warned on time]] 76
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22101	Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22102	Very briefly, I simply can't believe my eyes or I didn't see Mladen Bosić behind that pay phone, or the man said - I didn't give consent to this kind of act as a member of the College. I just can't believe the secretary came out and said he denied what Mladen Bosić made clear and unequivocal about this speaker. I can't believe it, either I didn't see it, Mladen Bosić, or it was dark on my eyes, because I just can't believe you're cheating on us sitting here and what you're doing. I'm not gonna use any ugly or heavy qualifications, but I'm just astounded. I cannot believe that you went out for a pay phone and said – The Kolegijum agreed that we would reduce the discussion for 5 minutes, and the first deputy, a member of the Kolegijum, comes out, and says – no, I was not agreed that this session was conducted in a way that the discussions lasted 5 minutes, and the secretary said. Then I, then I, I just can't believe it, then someone's not good here, or me or you, but it seems to me that it's not you, something isn't true. I have listened very carefully and unequivocally to what Mladen Bosić said and I fully agree that the atmosphere you have made in the College will be transferred, first of all to the overall relations here in Parliament, and I am fully convinced that things will be no longer the same, nor what they were, after all, the question is respect for the procedure. I also remind those MPs who sit here and say, once the procedure is disrupted, once the system of values is disrupted, once the matter becomes wrong, they become a rule. I'm fighting to make it a rule of law how you've now done it when it comes to the legislator himself and the complementary procedure that is related to the adoption of this law. It's really out of my mind. Please, at least don't make us who we aren't public, so I don't use hard words.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22103	Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22104	Thank you. Dear fellow Kapetanović, I hate to rephrase to you, and with all due respect I must say, I agree with that piece of yours where you quoted the Rules of Procedure, it is true, it says so, but for the sake of principle, then we should look back at all the violations of the Rules of Procedures that we are attending tonight. All this is phellerical today, from the beginning, from not knowing who the proposer is, how it happened, to the people who falsely represent themselves here as proponents, to the violation of the many provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Then we should have started the story by now, to this situation with kolegij where we don't know what really happened. It's clear to us what's going on here tonight, and it's clear that we're all going to hold on to our own, we're going to stick to our positions, we understand what's going to happen, but listen to what people are talking about here. You can't do anything by force, the other thing is I don't understand why we're even going this way, why are you being ruling, why do you need this? You could have done all of this in a regular procedure, with respect to the norms, with respect to the Rules of Procedure, what's the problem? And I agree with what Mr. Bosić said, this is going to have a bad, bad impact on the future work of this House, because obviously there are no rules here anymore. Everyone interprets when they need and how they need the rules of the Rules of Procedure and regulations, and this is not good. We all have our political views, we stand by them, some have changed, of course, that's their thing and theirs. Right after all, but let's stick to what's written in the acts that we've adopted ourselves, not to interpret them as we need 77. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're asking the promoter, if he's already proposing to talk to us, to tell us some things, to ask him something, we don't have that. In College I don't know where this is going and how we're going to continue and how we're going to continue. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22105	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22106	I, too, as well as my colleague, and probably all of us who are colleagues, whether, who we participated in the debate, I feel called out to surprise me by my colleague Kapetanović, mentioning hate speech, and pronounce – the diagnosis of psychiatricism, I really don't know why it was necessary. I have not recognized the hate speech, and here we are in this Joint Committee on Human Rights, and we are also engaged in this hate speech, so we are trying in some ways and getting to this Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we are taking part here and there in some seminars, but I really didn't recognize any hate speech today. That we are a psychiatric diagnosis, we, who warn about the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and which means, accordingly, the violation of the Constitution of BiH, whether we are a diagnosis of psychiatric, perhaps because previous mandates were also represented by representatives and advocates who were machine to raise their hands the way the party leader did. Today we have another constitution, some new and different people and parties, some old people in the new parties who finally said – we will not do so anymore, Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't deserve it, and of course, we are now interpreting ourselves as a psychiatric diagnosis. All that should be normal, in Bosnia and Herzegovina it begins to be interpreted as a diagnosis. Mrs. Kapetanović, an esteemed colleague says -- it is not a good message to mention EU debtors, it is not a good message to do that to those who chose us, who will once choose us there, I hope to remember the names of all those who plead for this set of excise laws. Mr. Han, when he was recently visiting Bosnia and Herzegovina, says -- not EU candidate status is a free lunch, and our tiny souls are sold for cookies, cookies, cookies, so it's not and it's a psychiatric diagnosis, and it would be given and there are doctors here who are respected, and a doctor who might be able to deal with it and analyze what happened to tiny souls in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So I really don't recognize anywhere, and I don't see where you found the hate speech, and why, why, why, why are we who mention EU officials, and why aren't they talking about the EU questionnaire? Isn't that what it's supposed to be mentioned, not that we're doing, as if it's in our genes, that you as a doctor might analyze, that we worship constantly and that we might be some lower rank to this? the tall mattresses who come, and in the wake of the trouble they don't even know about [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22107	I'm warning you on time. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22108	which continents have come and where they carry out their mission. There is money for transport infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, it's used in such a way that we don't even know where these money goes and what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22109	I'm warning you on time. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22110	I'll be in charge now, Madam Chairman. He's got money, he's got a questionnaire.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22111	I'll take your word, finish it. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22112	That's what we need to talk about, not just mentioning EU officials. What the EU's duties don't mention is ours who don't work, who sits
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22113	I take your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22114	in the Council of Ministers, and they did not answer the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22115	Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22116	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I fully accept Mr Komišić's comment, my intervention referred to Article 79, and this comment which, I admit and apologize, unwittingly said, absolutely did not refer to any MP in this House except the independent bloc group, because they were the ones who were constantly and again thrown out of place. I was threatened from the scene, you didn't hear, I'm sorry Mr. Magazinović didn't hear, you should have heard the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22117	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22118	Please, you should have heard Mr. Sokolović say - this is for The Hague. You haven't heard, you may be, in the last row, my comment absolutely did not refer to any other MP except for a group of independent MPs. If it is normal for you as parliamentarians to demonstrate your opinion by pounding your hands on the table, I do not know what else I could have said in the medicine I was learning, it is not appropriate and normal behavior, and it is not the least, it is the least of the behavior provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Those who have felt touched and offended, I immediately apologize, that neither I nor any other agent except for a group of three MPs who today earn, insult, and say, that, that the College of The Hague, I don't know, it's amazing, amazing. Why would college representatives be for The Hague? So, my, my, what I said about psychiatric behavior, it's not normal. After more warnings you've given, the same group of people throws it all the time. DF colleagues appeared in the regular procedure and said what they had and absolutely not referred to you, if you could accept my apology, but that my colleagues said it was for The Hag, I'm sorry, it's not right. And secondly, slap your hands on the table and stop insulting the College in continuity, so it's beyond human dignity, the third insult I received after my discussion which is also a threat by Mr. Salke Sokolović, at the very least bordering with, with, with, with the absence of a minimum of 79 humanity, respect for A human being, therefore, absolutely and it's terrible. [[the speaker is warned on time]] You, as a college, didn't respond to that, that's terrible. So, colleagues, I to those other parts of the hall, absolutely didn't apply to you, but You don't hear... from the front row, I'd like you to hear it. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22119	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22120	Again in 79, I ask you to warn your colleague, she confirms the insult, therefore, confirms the insult, so, which is... First, I would never blame Salki Sokolović for losing his leg for this country, ever. So, such a kind of insult to tell the man who lost his leg for this country, and also from that aspect, the professional aspect you should know as a doctor what it means. And you should, you should know that and you should treat yourself like that, as a doctor, according to whoever has, who has lost a leg anytime, and especially in the defense of the country. So this is for a warning and this is for an apology to Mr. Sokolović. And this is a shame for this House, and this is what you've allowed. There are those in this House who have been traumatized by the war and have not won them by their own will, Mrs. Kapetanović. As if you were born after Dejton, I don't know, I was in the Party of Democratic Action, it was once appreciated, did it stop to appreciate those who lost a leg for this country in the Party of Democratic Action? Is half-time compensation worth the insult of such a man? There used to be no, there wasn't, what's going on there is you discuss it, but while I'm sitting here, I'm going to protect them, I'm going to protect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22121	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22122	Dear colleague, I'm not going to attack you, you're putting up with too much now, and you're pressuring yourself, I'd just point out some things that need to be said more quantly. Whether we speak our opinions about someone who forces us to do as they please, do not forbid us. I'm just going to give you two examples here, there were extraordinary people and experts, what they say to the cap down there like Žužana Hargitaj, I think that, the finance minister remembers her well, but there were also exceptional fools like Džoan, who you imagine worked on our legislation, he was suspended as a lawyer and his right to deal with legal affairs was lifted. By chance, one of the senior officials met him in a taxi because he was driving a taxi and offered to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina and he was doing laws for us, just as an example. Or don't forget the collapse of the banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina caused by a press of ignorants to buy our commercial banks the unrefundable commissions of these international organisations. The mortgages of moon craters in Kalnovic, the reefs on Trescavica, the reefs unusable on Bjelašnica and so on and when these commercial banks did not want them, and the banks were destroyed. Therefore Do not think that they are all-knowing [[the speaker is warned on time]] Not All-Knowing [[the speaker is warned on time]] There's a lot of brains in here and there's people here who know more than they do. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22123	I warn by who knows which way MPs to abide by the agenda, the Rules of Procedure, not to earn, to maintain work in this hall, not to use words inappropriate in this House and thus to protect the dignity and reputation of this House, both the House and those we represent. Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22124	My correction to the wrong quote refers to Mr. Bojić's word regarding Mr. Bojić's words spoken earlier here. My colleague, as you hold on to the integrity of my colleague Bosić, I am in the same way holding on to the integrity of this House's secretary, without bringing Mr. Bosić's integrity at all. The two of them here said what they said about the events, both today and yesterday at the meetings of the Colleges. From the overall context of today's events and behaviors, anyone can draw a conclusion about what they want, but it's not worth saying to someone that it's not good, in the context of what it means, sweetly, here. It was at the Ethics Code border, even though I believe tonight isn't like this, that it's even more complicated by the Ethics Code, so that's why I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22125	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22126	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I'd like my colleagues to listen a little bit better when someone's saying something, I haven't told the College at all that they're for The Hag, but I've already said that today's behavior and procedures are for The Hag, because this leads me to the process, conditionally said, of rape, because we're raping today and the Constitution of the State, and laws and rules, and so on. It was my remark, none of you deserve The Hag, but that's how my distinguished colleague Nermina Kapetanović understood. And colleagues and colleagues, if you knew, I didn't threaten, I told Nermini – I'll tell you a few sentences in private, after, that I wouldn't be burdening this set here in any way, and that she thinks, uh, that I'm gonna prove it, and that I won't sue her for insulting honor, etc., because if I were a code, I'd have a disability on that basis, I have some other Mrs. Nermina Kapetanović, and I wish you a successful follow-up work and all the best in life, and that, not only when it comes to me, but other colleagues and colleagues, you follow a little more closely what someone says when you want to make a comment. And as for these representatives of the international community, it is not this Mr. Wigemark representative of the EU, he is a representative of the EIB and the EBRD, he is a financial lobbyist, he is obliged to raise EU funds in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he is looking for a secure jury, someone who will have funds when he invests, when the funds are invested, to return them. This has nothing to do with what the European Community or the EU is doing in these areas. This is the part where I resent everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the EU. We here need to protect the interests of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not the individual interests of us individually or the party from which we come, and that is my relationship with Mr. Wigemark who called me and lobbyed me. I have a right to say it, I don't know why I need to talk to him I came and 81 talked to If I'd known this was the reason, I'd never have given him 1,000 feet, not come and talk to him. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22127	Reputed representative Nermina Kapetanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22128	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I refer to Mr Ahmetović's discussion of war and war. I must, of course, have my dignity and dignity in the people I've saved lives for. I'm a war anesthesiologist, Mr. Ahmetović, and I've never been in the shade of war, I've been to the biggest open hospital, the only open hospital in Zenica, the Cantonal Hospital of Zenica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22129	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22130	Please, I, in the name of my dignity and the life I have saved in these hands in no condition, in conditions impossible to see who is called, without, human life has no omens, but the dignity of another must be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22131	Please, counselor, are we breaking the Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22132	Please, Mr Ahmetović, I will never accept, I cannot accept that you as a Parliamentarian with long-standing experience can approve of slapping your hands on the table and speak and support people who say they are members of The Hague College. I'm a believer, and deep down I believe in Bog, and I believe and fear him, it's said that they are members of the College, that they are for The Hag, and it's terrible and it's something that I can't make up with. But don't pay attention to me and put on the burden, I know that Mr. Sokolović is a wartime military invalid, you believe that thousands of people have crossed over these arms and I'm very proud of that, but you believe that I still claim, for sure, it's not a normal demonstration of slapping on the table. Anything can be said, here's the people looking for a word, they say, they answer, but there's no force. You have the right to political articulation of your opinions, without force and without insult, threats are made to me, believe it or not, with me not asking for absolutely no sanctions for anyone, but the President has the possibility of intervention with the Rules of Procedure and that is foreseen, but don't insult me, don't insult me, don't insult me with my dignity, please don't insult you. You are very inclined to insult members of the College, so to the president of the state, you go like that to a wide port always, I don't know why you always need to insult other people and family members.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22133	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go, MPs. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22134	The chairman of this obviously goes in a very wrong direction and this is becoming as worrying as I am in this House, and I have followed him before, never the hard words have fallen, I ask you to keep an eye on and let him calm down the situation here. These are the things that are said, which leave profound consequences not only for human relations but also for the consequences of the whole society. Are you even aware of the situation this country is in and several months back, especially after tonight? Let's not lie to say that this Parliament has been blocked for two months, after this it will only be blocked remember, not because one of us here is knowingly doing it on purpose, but because things are going in that direction. We must protect both our dignity and the integrity of this House. Dignity has been seriously violated, because when you don't follow the rules, when you don't respect the laws, when you don't respect the rules, you get anarchy, and then each of us gives himself the right to act beyond the law and past the Rules of Procedure and beyond everything else and bring us to this situation. Do you know that people are watching this and that tomorrow some will lynch, if you're aware of the reaction outside, go read on the portals. I don't want to be in the skin of a colleague who's going to support these excises tonight, because they won't be comfortable when they get out on the street, they won't be at all comfortable with people's reactions, look at the reactions on social networks they are, because people just see that they're going to have to give money out of their pocket. And since we've been talking about pressures here and we've been talking all the time about the pressures of Mr. Vigemark who it was and he's legitimately fighting for the interest of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it's our obligation to fight For the interests of those who have chosen us, and therefore, here I am finishing this replica, looking for a request on behalf of the Club and I have a by, a member, I think, 90. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Rules of Procedure to vote by calling on an emergency procedure. One, and before continuing to calm down, I'm looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22135	At the request of the SDS Club, I'm giving a half-hour break. .... Aleksandra Pandurević to explain the reasons for the request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22137	Like I said, we asked for a little passion to calm down, because there were really hard words here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22138	Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22139	Thank you. The proposed emergency procedure for the adoption of amendments to the Excise Act is not in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives because the conditions for emergency proceedings have not been met. Article 133. The Rules of Procedure set out that the Proposer may, in writing, ask the House for the proposal of a high-level emergency law or which is formulated in such a simple way, to be adopted or rejected in full, to be considered in a single reading. The proposed Law has been in the legislative process several times and has been focused almost a year on the work of this House, which 83 points out that it is not an emergency at all but is fully justified that this very important law is being considered in the ordinary legislative procedure. This Law is not at all formulated in such a simple way as the Rules of Procedure of this House requires, but rather a complex law that will have an unforeseeable impact on the overall economic and social environment in this country. The importance and complexity of this Act is also reflected in the fact that citizens of this country are very upset by the proposed increase in excise and toll, and complete uncertainty with the consequences has been opened. When before? [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22140	It doesn't apply to you, just keep going, it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22141	What does it apply to? Now I'm getting...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22142	Go ahead, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22143	Now you've completely confused me, I don't know where I left off.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22144	Here's an apology if we confused you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22145	Okay. Therefore, the citizens of this country are very upset by the proposed increase in excise duties and tolls, and there is open complete uncertainty about the consequences that will take place in the event of the possible adoption of this set of proposed amendments to the Excise Act. The promoter did not explain anything about the urgency of the proposed amendments to the Excise Act and the laws accompanying these amendments, but only formally requested an emergency procedure. If these proposed amendments and additions to the Excise Act are so simple, why are amendments and additions to a set of laws which must follow the amendments and additions in question? In my view, that the Law should be formulated in such a simple way as to determine how the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives then its amendments and additions should not have a consequent link with other laws, i.e. those amendments and additions should not cover amendments and additions to the sets of laws. In accordance with the importance and complexity of the amendments and additions proposed, I appreciate that the urgent procedure for this set of laws is not justified and that it should be referred to the ordinary legislative procedure. Officially, this proposal for amending and supplementing the Excise Act is not in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions, and therefore cannot be adopted in an emergency procedure. The second chapter of the Single Rules and Regulations and the structure and contents of the reasoned regulations provides that the reasons for the regulation are set out in point (b) of Article 60 for the introduction of rules and the explanation of the policy chosen. And Article 62 sets out what the reasons for the introduction of the rules must include, inter alia, that the reasons for the introduction of the rules must be based on clear evidence that the introduction of the rules is justified, and therefore it must be specified in particular the analysis of the current situation and the value of which the processor was managed and the current policy of the institution concerned. We don't have an analysis of the current situation, and there's no analysis of what's expected of us in the future. It is also necessary to specify the probability of profit from the introduction of a regulation based on a realistic assessment, the effectiveness of an institution. There is nowhere to be mentioned nor an explanation of the profit of 84 proposed increases in excise and toll, because we do not see where it says what the profit is, how much the total amount is at the annual level and where the real assessment is. Article 62. The uniform rules are also laid down by the following – whenever possible, the reasons for the introduction of regulations and an explanation of the defence policy should also be based on evidence that the debate was conducted and on alternative forms of regulation given to matter. Is there perhaps an alternative variant and did the promoter consider a possible alternative to the proposed toll increase? As a House, we have not been informed of this, because the promoter does not treat it anywhere in the obligation if he wants the proposed Law to be in accordance with the regulations governing the content of the same. The proposed amendments to the Excise Act are contrary to Article 65. The single rules where the position (2) indicates that the applicant is required to assess the expected costs and profits from the introduction of the rules and from possible alternatives to the introduction of the rules. The promoter merely stated that the adoption of those amendments does not require the granting of any new means to implement this Act, and that further assessment of economic costs and profits is not treated at all. For all of this, I believe that the request for an emergency procedure is not justified and I am taking the opportunity to ask once again for the leadership of this House to tell us who the Proposer of this Law is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22146	Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22147	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is hard indeed to find a serious reason to consider this Law by emergency procedure, a team before we lost a year of dealing with the nuances of this Law, in order to finally get to the point that we have to adopt it by 15 December because it is an IMF order. What exactly is this law supposed to provide? I have spoken today that in a very way there has been a transformation of ownership of this Law and that this Law since the ownership of the Council of Ministers has suddenly become the property of Parliament without the consent of a home in this Parliament, which, of course, is illogical, is not possible, I even think, even business. Meanwhile, there have been many other transformations, one of transformations, such as transformation of attitudes. So we have some opposition parties who have changed their attitudes and who today are willing to support this Excise Act even though only a few months ago they swore they wouldn't support excises. I had the chance to listen to the party's vice president, Mrs. Arapović, who said there was no way the SBB would support the excises because it was catastrophic, etc. Itd. We have a transformation of the position of the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska who has said no other law comes into consideration than the one adopted by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board and then came one who was not even on the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority. And there are a number of others, therefore, transforming them into attitudes so as not to list them further. We have a transformation of the priorities of representatives of the international community, so that people have lost as much time as, uh, looking for a solution to accelerate the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina as they have lost us by convincing us to adopt excise duties, we would move some step forward today. That would be urgent then, I would understand that it is an emergency then, because behind that we will have some progress that will provide this country and these citizens of this country with some improvement. We have, say, a cost transformation, evidently, that the result of this will be a transformation of campaign costs, so parties will not have to pay out of their campaign budgets, but will solve it through travel companies and it is a positive side for those who will vote for this law. We have an accident-to-luck transformation, imagine you two days ago how 85 were unhappy these people from the IMF or from the EBRD when neither... could anyone have thought to repay to them those debts they owed us. Imagine how happy they will be tomorrow when they learn that this Law has passed and that they have no problem with paying debts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in particular they will be happy citizens of this country who will pay more expensive fuel not for increasing excise duties but for increasing tolls. He's just gotten them used to no fuel increase because we're not gonna take excises and they're all happy to increase my toll. And those who heat up on the vine oil about their happiness that I don't speak when they find out the new price of a vine of oil. All these gentlemen are saying that this law was not required by an emergency procedure, I purposely stated this to tell you that everything like this, this condition was both three months ago and six months ago and it would be in three months, and it would have been in three months if we had been smart and this law could have been adopted tomorrow, it would probably be adopted. If we'd worked a little bit smarter and maybe we'd have avoided all this lardy here today and tonight in Parliament. Unfortunately, we didn't have those. and wisdom, I congratulate all the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the New Year, on Bog's help. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22148	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22149	I thank the chairman. Well, colleagues have more or less listed many reasons why these laws cannot be in emergency procedures, we argue that these laws cannot be in emergency procedures because they have violated the constitutional justice system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The excise law is increasing among other things, increasing the excise duties on biofuels and biodiversity, which is in direct contrast to the obligations of the Third Energy Package of Bosnia and Herzegovina because the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of the Council of Ministers is establishing a Council of Ministers, please, a colleague, _____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] On 18 October 2012, the Council of Ministers adopted a Decision implementing Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources in which the objective for Bosnia and Herzegovina is to establish from 40% of the share of renewable energy sources in final energy consumption and the participation of renewable energy in transport of 10% to 2020. I am afraid with these measures that, although it is formal, the acts we adopt oblige us to do not actually encourage the consumption of bioenergy but rather the opposite, and we will not be able to fulfil our obligations under the directives that we have taken. Also, we've heard a lot about transparency these days, and there's absolutely no transparency in these laws. I don't see where transparency is here, who's gonna watch the spending of money, how do we know the money isn't going to public spending, it's going to be on highways? Here says it goes to the account the user delivers, goes to public consumption. Furthermore, the Law also says - 0.15 marks of the so far go on roads, and then we have 0.25 going on highways, of which 0.20 refers to highway construction, and 5 fanning for construction and reconstruction of other roads. Whether anyone in this country can explain to me what this means or still we have a situation with one, as we had this morning with another law, the Deposit Insurance Act in which, 86 you can imagine, we have a sentence – Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state. I'm asking these to which Mr. Vigemark writes the laws, even if we could shape them up, let's sort out those laws a little bit before we refer them to the procedure. Furthermore, the adoption of these laws violated the Law on the Council of Ministers and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, as ministers did not comply with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, had the text of the law. In addition, no subsequent opinions were adopted at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 24 November, the Council of Ministers never adopted them. From the memo we have here, we can see that some invisible laws were adopted first, and then the Council of Ministers sent letters to the Secretary of the Council of Ministers for Direct Taxation, the Office for Law, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so that the opinions that should have been on the Council of Ministers at the time of the adoption of the law came and delivered them only by those institutions, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in the last 7th of December of this year. So the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers was completely violated. Next, I'll remind you also why not an emergency. If we talk about increasing the excise duties of Bosnia and Herzegovina's only obligations are from the Treaty on Corridor 5C, from the Treaty with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the highway Banja Luka-Doboj, and these agreements tell us – that Bosnia and Herzegovina commits to increasing the toll from 5 euro cents to 7.5. So I'm asking you why we're increasing this much, not just by 5 cents, but by 5 fening, but by 15 fening, where does the difference go? You know where he's going, we've done the analysis, and that means if we have an obligation, then please make it a commitment that we've taken, not as much as anyone here needs. Our analysis is the following, and it has been done by professional people, says -- that Republika Srpska has so far been granted to tolls for 400 million highways, the loan has taken 890 million. When you see how much it's spent So far, I'm done with two sentences, 38 million missing. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Do you know how many gentlemen dear in the Federation lack money from loans and these tolls for highways? 293 million, so first someone return this 293 million and this 38 million in Republika Srpska, and then we can discuss the increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22151	Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22152	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. So here's the part that I wanted to talk about, and as regards the introduction of excise duty on biofuels and biotechnology, Mrs Pandurević said, but that's enough reason for sound people to go to at least a shortened procedure, as suggested only by the Council of Ministers, simply to see if our path to the EU implies and violates European directives, and here's a reason why Mrs Pandurević explained it, but here I am saying it was enough reason for us to determine in a constructive debate here whether we need it on the way to the EU to violate EU directives. And they were violated at the time when this law, this biofuel and biohazard, this, was brought into a situation to include an excise duty that had never existed before, and it is mandatory under that directive that if there is an excise or reduced or any tax to prefer the consumption of biofuels and biohazards. But that's one reason, too, for me, why this law couldn't go by emergency procedure. I will once again remind us here that at the 34th session, held on 7 December, the House of Peoples adopted the draft laws in question in the short procedure in the first reading, and 87 then by calling for Article 103 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and in the second reading. This is a precedent for the reason that Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations can only be applied if it is a law of minor size or degree of complexity, meaning I have not said anything new, but... since repeating it is the mother of knowledge, to repeat it once again here, so that it is some sort of orientation in making the final decision. Following the adoption of the draft law in the second reading of the House of Peoples, Halid Genjac, acting on the terms of the provisions of Articles 153 and 175 (1), (2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, adopted the Proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a proposal to the People's House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, proposes that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina be considered by the House of Peoples under the urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Uh, I want to point out here one moment of double archival, because I remember well in the media writings it was that it was just mentioned by Mr., my former colleague, Mr. Halid Genjac when he adopted the Electoral Law in the House of Peoples which he proposed then HDZ was against imposing the House of Peoples procedure on the House of Representatives and being explicit in that the House of Peoples cannot and that there is no business support to impose the House of Representative procedure by which he will consider these, uh, laws. Here's one example of this one, let's say, of political hypocrisy that has been ensnared here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Many violations of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives have been made here. The BiH Council of Ministers as an authorised promoter has the obligation to attend committee meetings to discuss the bill's proposals, the Home sessions, as well as the disposition to withdraw these draft laws from the legislative procedure. We are in the process of holding this session, since the Council of Ministers proposed the laws in the shortened procedure to maintain the continuation of the Finance and Budget Commission and most of the present members of the Commission gave a negative opinion on these proposals, although here we had the opportunity to invite the Council of Ministers to attend the meeting, did not attend [[Gobor is warned on time]] Since I'm warning myself that I can't finish my discussion until the end, I'm going to continue this later, and I'm also taking the opportunity to ask for a half-hour break to relax, relax, it's hot, there's no cigarette, etc. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22153	On behalf of the Independent Block, I'll take a break from half an hour until 11:30. Please proceed with the session. _________(?) 88 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22156	2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, another missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22157	We miscounted. /The lack of quorum in the hall-waits is the arrival of MPs/ We have a quorum, we continue with the session. There is no Mr. Sokolović to explain the reasons for asking for a break. We have a representative Zaim Backović, a debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22159	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The first dilemma I have is the promoter, the first dilemma, and then, to a large extent, I agree with the previous speakers, there are dilemmas of the following nature. Isn't it possible that in this country which is fortunate or unfortunate is in the ground, or whatever you want, the winds of worldly thinking find people who will start thinking about how to make profit and profit in this country and how to make young people hump, the generations that go behind us, the more they release the burden that awaits them? I'll give just a few examples, because these examples will clearly show where the money lies, which we give to undeveloped, underdeveloped Austria, undeveloped Italy, undeveloped Germany and so on. Do you know that any country in our environment, and not to say that I do not list the other Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, and Germany, so France does. Ma'am, this is impossible to say, ma'am, Madam Chairman, it's impossible to speak, do you see how much talk is being made here?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22160	I'm surprised. I don't know if anyone else feels it. Here you go, counsel, you have your word, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22161	Well, I'm here, I've got, I've taken the word and I'm silent, I'm entitled to keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22162	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22163	It seems you're not allowed to tell people what the fact is. Do you know of any country in the environment that has abolished real payment traffic and commission to kill her, not to collect commercial banks, and through this they place funds to our citizens at the interest of XY, and on the funds that citizens give on savings give nothing or give Bog up to 1% of the annual interest. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22164	Just to warn you, it's an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22165	So I want to say why I'm talking, why we needed an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22167	And with regard to the law on the table to be in emergency procedures, say Republika Srpska gentlemen should be asked where is the money from the privatisation of Telekom Republika Srpska, why should we collect it this way when a billion and something is collected there? Or where is the money from the privatization of the Refinery, instead of raising money like this from the citizens? Or should someone explain to us why you're doing a depth analysis of Telekom in the Federation and the electricity industry, is that it's being sold and the money's being spent, and then another three, four, five, six times increase the excise duties? I think we have other modes. But I understand this press, and I understand the desire to invest, and I understand creditor anxiety and security that they have a safe payment, because I don't know how much you know, but the loans they made to Bulgaria, and in the European Union it's Rumunija and in the EU it's, and I'm not counting, Greece, they're not exactly charging, they're forgiving them, and we need to have a guarantee
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22168	I'm asking the MPs not to get any money from the scene. It's not even polite to laugh at their colleagues when they're on display. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22169	Only let them laugh, one day their children will wonder how that which they leave in their country goes to the countries which environment, not in their country [[the speaker is warned on time]] So it's a win m:tel among other things. [[the speaker is warned on time]] You should try to find people other ways, and there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them. Only the budgets to be made should be one analysis of how much funds to transfer budget funds remain in the pockets of bank owners who today exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I couldn't agree more. with everyone they've ever said. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22170	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22171	It would be good to find out who the bill's proposing after all the time we've been sitting here and here's where we haven't figured out who the bill promoter is yet. I know it's late. I don't want to repeat what the 90 are.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22172	I apologize, Your Honor. I'm asking the MPs in line, we're really going to start with the warnings, I don't think it's gonna be nice, I'm going to be guilty, I'm warning you, you're the mirror of this House. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22173	The proposed emergency procedure for adoption... or they make me laugh or, so they can't make me laugh, they get me, you don't hear, you don't hear what they're saying, so they really make me laugh. The proposed emergency procedure for the adoption of amendments to the Excise Act is not in accordance with Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives because the conditions for emergency proceedings have not been met. Article 133. The Rules of Procedure set out that the Proposer may ask the House in writing for the proposal of a high-level emergency law or which is formulated in such a simple way that it can be adopted or rejected in full consideration in a single reading. The proposed Law has been in the legislative process several times and has been focused almost a year on the work of this House, indicating that it is not an emergency at all but is fully justified that this very important law is being considered in the ordinary legislative procedure. This Law is not designed at all in such a simple way as the Rules of Procedure of this House requires, in order to be urgent, but rather a complex law that will have an unpredictable impact on the overall economic, social environment in this country. The importance of the complex law is reflected in the fact that the citizens of this country are very upset by the proposed increase in excise duties and tolls and there is an open complete uncertainty about the consequences that will arise in the event of the adoption of this set of proposed amendments to the Excise Act. The promoter did not explain anything about the urgency of the proposed amendments to the Excise Acts and Laws that follow these amendments but only formally requires an emergency procedure. If these proposed amendments and additions to the Excise Act are so simple, then why is it proposed to amend and supplement a set of laws which must follow the amendments in question and supplement the Excise Act. In my view, that the law should be formulated in such a simple way as to determine how the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives then its amendments and additions should not have a consequent link with other laws, i.e. those amendments and additions should not include amendments and additions to the sets of laws. In accordance with the importance and complexity of the amendments and additions proposed, I appreciate that the emergency procedure for this set of laws is not justified and that it should be directed to the ordinary legislative procedure. For the purposes of this proposal, the amendment and addition of the Excise Act is not in line with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore cannot be adopted in an emergency procedure. The second chapter of the Single Rules provides for the structure and content of the reasoning of the regulations. Article 60 provides that the reasons for the regulation are set out in point (b) of the reasons for the introduction of the rules and the explanation of the policy chosen, and further Article 62 sets out what the reasons for the introduction of the rules must contain. Among other things, it has been found that the reasons for the introduction of the rules must be based on strong evidence that the introduction of the rules is justified, and in particular must be stated: a) Analysis of the current situation. Where's the analysis of the current situation? It's gone, there's no analysis of the current situation for such a serious law. ( b) The values of which the processor was managed and the current policy given to the institution regarding them. 91 No values are indicated which were managed by the processor when it proposes to increase tolls by 15 finishings or by more than half compared to the existing total toll on oil and oil derivatives. Not specified on the basis of which indicators Is the Proposer [[the speaker is warned on time]] increase in fening tolls. _________(?) [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[no microphone turned on]] I'll probably get it. _________(?) [[the speaker is warned on time]] [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22176	Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22177	Here's a few sentences I'm going to say about the procedure and about the system and the way in which such important regulations are passed in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, of course, I'm going to use a certain portion of the quote that I had the chance to hear in '16. A year somewhere in the sixth month I've heard from my colleagues from the SNSD and I wonder who really is the Proposer of the Law, but it's a miracle that we can't even recognize the Proposer of the Law. And once in a while, to quote, Dušanka Majkić used to say this, she says – once you break down and, quote, once you break down and break down the system that we have nurtured all these years, there is no system anymore. And I am concerned that there is no system anymore, because the objective system and the way we make the laws is completely clear and unequivocally prescribed by the Rules of Procedure which are clearly no longer respected here, and this kind of practice that we are now introducing can become a rule in the future, and such rules can be a serious problem for democracy, but also for those of us who need to protect, above all, the interests of this House and to protect the interests of citizens at the very end. It was interesting to listen to his own time as Nikola Špirić spoke about the transformation that Momčilo Novaković spoke about, so I'll quote him a little when he said – so whenever Nikola Špirić says, the tax issue, and he knows it better, excise, taxi, it always causes enough political and every other debate. The problem, he says, is that we never develop a professional debate, here obviously, fellow Špirić has no expert debate, and always this Parliament confirms political answers and political solutions that are sometimes absolutely in cohesion with social sensitivity. So now I'm asking if it's missing that social sensitivity you had in the sixth month of '16. And what happens today when it comes to that attitude? It was interesting to hear something else you were saying, and I'm going to quote it to you, it's said among other things, you've done math, so you say, in a mathematical sense, it says, is there 92 mathematics to install a social component? And I'm wondering if there's any math here when it comes to the social component, but obviously there's been a transformation with you. We, it says, are actually playing with this, so these games that can cost dearly, especially if we give it a prominent political dimension in social terms, says Nikola Špirić, so there will be those who will say – if you support this, then citizens have the right to go out to protest, because you are actually pushing your hand into the citizens' pocket. All of these are the facts that I would now imagine, and that's something that's a fact, so I was quoting, I wasn't paraphrasing, I was quoting that it would be completely credible. And now the question is, is that the '16 Nikola Špirić? years or this one now who now thinks differently. Of course, the fact is, you couldn't make any decisions with the Party of Democratic Action, but it doesn't seem to bother you at all this time. The fact is also when it comes to this regulation and what needs to be said is that it is really the easiest burden of reform to shift to citizens who will actually have a problem, because the cost of life will be expensive, it will not only affect the fuel issue at the gas station is it going to be reflected, therefore, and in daily consumption, so the standard of people will certainly be below European level. And now here we are going to introduce a story where we will practically have a situation where we will have equal prices of products and services with European prices, and wages and receipts here in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be below the average of Europe. So we have not provided quality standards for citizens that they can bear this kind of burden that they will pay in the future. So I think that this kind of approach, especially the way these regulations are being adopted, is something that doesn't allow us to act at all in the way that it's been delivered, and it's not delivered in a quality way, says that I need now without being able to act in any way amendment or suggest a certain kind of change, where I'm going to have to accept, to accept. And what, of course, surprises me, is that my colleagues used to say in the way they said that now these kinds of attitudes don't exist at all. I can't believe you're acting that way today. I'm not going to say what a colleague has thrown here in the bench, in which way, you're making this relationship to the citizens, it's going to be a chance for you to still debate these issues, if you want me to tell you, but it's ugly, so I won't, because I respect this House too, I think that far more respect should be given by parliamentarians to this high House, but really, this kind of procedure, what we're doing today is certainly not to honor those who have agreed to do so, so don't sink the promoter, and if there is no such procedure, implement the previous procedures necessary to achieve the adoption of this type of regulation. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22178	Representative Senad Šepić, second debate, you have no right to remain at the same points. Mensura Beganović, MP. Here's the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22179	I thank the chairman. It's a little late, I hope that we'll bring an end to today's rsomonyade, and I'm very embarrassed by the complete events that took place today in this House, so let me first say what my biggest shock is. My biggest shock is that after the talks with the chairman, Mr. Zvizdić, who is here tonight, which was done at our club, we get a proposal from a completely different promoter, so I don't know what's going on with Mr. Zvizdić's proposal, which he spoke to us in a very correct, reasoned way, I would say. So, one way that is worthy of MPs and 93 is a worthy chairman of the Council of Ministers. What we're trying to do today, past all the rules, procedures, so if we're going to say good practice is something that opened up a very unpleasant one, I'd say, a game with the integrity of this House, with our integrity individually, I feel very played out, and I can't possibly figure out that we can spend all day on this story and stick to a strictly one way that really doesn't have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure of a home, like the House of Representative, or another home that appears as a promoter. According to one promoter, it's an emergency procedure, and on the other hand, it's a shortened procedure. The result will probably be the same no matter what procedure it overcomes, but according to my deep conviction, this is a very unnecessary farce that is happening today in this House, and in some ways I want to say that the procedure that we are conducting today and the relationship of the College to the House and the House towards the College is not commendable to this House or to you or to us as representatives. I will not touch the metrics of any part of this Law except one, a reminder of one discussion that I had the first time the Act of Accises appeared, where I actually showed one great skeptic, I would say, according to the good intentions of those who propose these laws, while allowing themselves, and also impose on us various loans, laws, loans, agreements, as we have today one agreement, in which the reasons for taking credit are a reduction in the poverty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I do not see that the introduction of excise duties going on and on the back of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will reduce the poverty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the contrary. No matter how symbolic this seems, only 18 fencing increases with VAT, of course, it is not to be ignored for many citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina given the very difficult economic situation in which a large number of our citizens are located. I would also remind myself that I was actually against this way of solving the collection of funds from citizens, and missing opportunities for a large number of European funds not to do what is necessary to make it applicable to the resources at our disposal and for which we are in fact slightly losing our right to withdraw them because of the absence of strategies, the absence of laws that are at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina that open that possibility. I then debated in that very sense that I can't understand that we support it, that we have reason to support one of these sets of laws, primarily whether the Excise Act, and we're missing the opportunity to find those resources we objectively need in other ways. An emergency procedure which, as we said, was proposed by one of the motions proposed or shortened the procedure that was the proposal of another legislator of this set of laws is something that we are really thrown out today in a way that, to say the rules of procedure, the rules on the work of one or another home, and are brought by the representatives to communicate with each other in a very incorrect way today, and in some ways, they undermine the reputation of this House. I don't want to hurt anyone here in any way, but I don't understand that a little more than half of my colleagues in the House, the House of Representatives, are willing to support the adoption of these laws in this way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22180	Thank you. We have further, the debate by Representative jasmin Ermić, second debate. Representative Nenad Lalić, but before you get the word, I want to warn the representatives of what your business is, is that before you get up or leave the session, please contact the chairman or one of us from the College, I think it is respect for you, none of the MPs who have left, who have left the College. Please, is that how the College breaks the Rules of Procedure again? 94 Here you are, Your Honor, Nenad Lalić, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22181	Thank you, Chairman. So here's a long discussion here why the emergency procedure, but here I'm going to look back on the need for excises, whether we even need, uh, how to monitor the consumption of those, etc. Um, I don't know how much, people are getting tired already, we repeat ourselves often, I'm going to try not to be long and stricken, but I have to make some of my observations that I've already commented on before. No Niko is against prosperity and any form of construction of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the company, roads, highways, anything, normally we all need it, but it seems to me that the question is whether the real source of funding is an increase in excise duties, I think we should look for other sources, because we all know, this, and what a big problem it is to return credit. We take it lightly because we experience it as if we are not returning from our personal pockets, but to bogami we are returning and returning our descendants and the next generations, so I think we should focus on increasing every form of production, economy, industry, increase in exports, primarily through finished products, and not exporting repromary and raw materials and looking for sources of security of funds and economic power for Bosnia and Herzegovina and normally our centuries-old fight against corruption and crime that has never been domesticated here. I think these are all some sources where we could spare a little bit and save this troubled people in these places that are on the verge of existence anyway. I don't think we can put all our ignorance and incompetence on their shoulders and simply increase the excise duties from which to fund some of our budget gaps, and I don't think these members here of this collective and the citizens have any reasonable suspicion that a lot of this money is wasted and not for what it's intended for. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22182	Representative Saša Magazinović, second debate, has no right to do so. Representative Mirsad Mešić, debate. Mirsad Mešić, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, now. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22183	The chairman is working without a quorum, I'd like to ask that to be determined.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22184	I ask the services to determine whether there is a quorum, and at the same time I ask the services to write to us all MPs who are not presently in the Chamber, and no one has reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 7(4). We've got a quorum, we're moving on. Mirsad Mešić is a representative, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22185	I'm signing up not to be in the session. I have to get out. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22186	You have to explain the reason and you have to say in time, it's not so simple to leave the session, you didn't get permission from an MP to go out. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, I'm warning you if you report back from that seat you'll be away from the session. Representative Željko Komšić, debate. Here you go, counsel. He's not here right now. Representative Damir Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22188	We're going to slow down, I don't think we've talked about what happened to the procedures in the first place long enough, so let's just remind ourselves of some of the parts, but let's see from the beginning. At its 34th session, held on 07.12.2017, the People's House adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the first reading, where there was a proposal of the Council of Ministers, of course, since 05.12.2017, and a reduced procedure was proposed. Also, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Account Law and the distribution of revenue, also the first reading, again proposed by the same Council of Ministers, of 05.12. and also requested a shortened procedure. And the proposal for a law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina was the first reading, the proposer was then the Council of Ministers and a shortened procedure was sought. Proposals for legislation adopted at the 34th session of the House of Peoples were in the legislative procedure, with the subsequent removal of the shortcomings found to have existed by the legislative and legal sector, which was pointed out in the Opinion of 06.12.2017 by the Legislative and Legal Sector of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Official acts delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on 07.12.2017, draft laws in the consolidated text and opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which remove the shortcomings in the earlier Bill proposal of 05.12.2017, were not discussed at the Council of Ministers meeting, as also seen in the letter of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01.02-02-1-2810/17 of 07.12.2017, and also confirmed by ministers from the order of the Serbian people. These official acts were delivered with numerous violations of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. At its 122nd session, held on 24.11.2017, the Council of Ministers adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. With votes against and revote, Minister Mirko Šarović and Dragan Mektić, who were also delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at 9:50 p.m. on 05.12.2017. By submitting a bill that was not essentially discussed at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Article 16 was violated. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers, which prescribes the way members of the Council of Ministers work and decide at Council of Ministers' meetings. Article 8 has been broken. Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, which concerns the rights and duties of ministers at Council of Ministers' meetings. Article 28 has been broken. Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that the material for the session is delivered to the Members of the Council of Ministers and Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, which prescribes the mandatory procurement of opinions on proposed materials, which was not respected at the 122nd session of the BiH Council of Ministers, held on 24.11.2017. At its 34th session of 96, held on 07 December 2017, the House of Peoples adopted the draft laws under the short procedure in the first reading, and then by calling for Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and in the second reading. This is a precedent for the reason that Article 103(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House can apply only if it is a law of minor size or a degree of complexity which cannot be concluded for these three drafts of the law. I think we've already established tonight that this is definitely not a small-scale law and that it's definitely a complex law which, later on, when we get to the metrics, we're going to show that there are a lot of mistakes. Following the adoption of the Law proposal in the second reading of the House of Peoples, he declared Genjac and called for the provisions of Articles 153 and 175 (1), (2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a Proposal for the House of Peoples [[the speaker is warned on time]] in this case, we are told at least something in one place that it is the House of Peoples, although from the acts delivered to us by the House of Nations we cannot see, because it continues to say that it is the Council of Ministers' proposal; and [[the speaker is warned on time]] to be considered under an urgent legislative procedure and in accordance with Article 133. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives. I think these are just some of the parts that we see of the Rules of Procedure which are members of the Rules of Procedure which have been broken and I think it is clear to everyone now that this is about the flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure.../the speaker is being warned in time/...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22189	I'm warning you in time, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22190	Well, here's if there's no more time really, I'd like to request a break on behalf of the DF Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22191	At the request of the DF Club, I'm giving a half-hour break. We're moving on with the session. I'm calling on the president of the club of the DF to explain the reasons for the pause.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22193	Well, we had to carry out some consultations on the continuation of the session. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22194	Oh, my God, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22195	I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22196	on behalf of the representative. Moving on, moving on. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22197	Thank you. With a lot of what my previous speakers have said, I would like to point out and really appeal to all my colleagues to respect the fact that this has really been marred by the Constitution of BiH, this proposal by the House of Peoples, because Article 1 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, which prescribes that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly is organised and operated in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, the law and this Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure and all those governed by the legislative procedure have been violated. It is also important to stress that Article IV of the BiH Constitution establishing the Parliamentary Assembly... the legitimacy and legality of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly is very seriously violated because of all of this, there is no valid legal basis for these amendments to the bill, in fact, this whole set of laws, the alleged promoter of the House of Nations, to be found on the agenda at all, and let alone in the emergency procedure. I also really ask my colleagues to respect the fact that this will cost the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina three hundred million marks. Today we talked about how we took some loans 10 years ago that were supposed to reduce poverty, and the result is that today we are judged as the poorest country. This will not become business activity as some claim, but unfortunately will further burden the economy, and I will talk about it later, what is the position of the Association of Businessmen of Republika Srpska on these excise duties, this will further impoverish the people, and even if we once have these paths, there will be no one to go along these roads because this youth will flee the country. So please think carefully, Mr. Vigemark is According to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we have a responsibility to citizens who have voted over it. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22198	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22199	Thank you. I don't seem to know who we're discussing today, or tonight, but it seems to us that it's not clear who's the author of this set of laws, so I'm still insisting on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to explain to us when he is an authorised promoter. In addition, I would like the College or at least one member of the College to explain, since we when we are MPs and when we leave, when the House of Representatives adopts some of our bill proposals we must send or be present as promoters or send an authorised promoter to the House of Peoples. We must also inform the secretary of the House of Nations who will attend that 98 session when these laws that have been adopted in the House of Representatives in the role of the promoter or the authorised promoter and I ask the College also to tell me if any of you knew that or already Mr. Safet Softić is an authorised promoter in front of the House of Peoples. Because we didn't even realize it today, we're suggesting it today. So, if we go back to the beginning of today's meeting at 10:00, we're when we see a man sitting here, that the delegate sitting in the House of Representatives, we've come to the impression that it's the proposer of this law. However, we never received a written explanation or notice. Also, you have not met members of clubs who are an authorised promoter or I am the promoter of this Act. I continue to insist on Article 106(6) if Mr. Safet Softić is an authorised promoter of the House of Nations to tell us and to address this House by Article 75 (2) and to provide certain answers to the very set of laws of which he proposes. I also don't understand how, or how I understand it, because I tried to get a stenogram of the House of Peoples, how this was all happening, and how we got into this situation where we're in this situation tonight, and there are certain answers here. I consider the chairman that according to what I'm about to state, that we have a certain new case, you couldn't or shouldn't have brought these three laws together in one debate and that we're reading about them, and here's an explanation why. So point 5. The Act on Excises, which was on the House of Peoples, reports counterpart Halid Genjac, and says – at this point we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina in both readings, so they had this Law as a proposing to the Council of Ministers, in a shortened procedure and after that proposed to the House of Representatives, he makes a proposal to the House of Peoples to propose a proposal to the House of Law. It is a provision in the Rules of Procedure of both home and home, as I said, that principle has not been thoroughly developed, especially in situations where related law applies. So, in his discussion, although man is not a lawyer, but I congratulate him he is a gynecologist, so much of the essence has touched this whole thing, because here we have two related laws, because he realizes that we have one Council of Ministers, and if now the House of Nations does what he did, we will have two laws in the procedure. And it's still standing, but we're in Article 175. At home, we have a provision that we can by way of conclusion regulate certain issues which are not or are not precisely regulated by these Rules of Procedure and these are just some questions, so it is not a set of laws to which they are called they still list members. And he says - I suggest the conclusion that the House of Nations delivers the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accises as a proposal to the House of Peoples with a request to consider it by emergency procedure, with a request. This is what Mr. Safet Softić appears and says – a small suggestion to colleagues, perhaps, in the proposal of Mr. Genjac's conclusion that instead of starting to stand "the House of Peoples delivers" should stand "proposed". So, there's a fellow Softić who's already seen it, so they can't do it imperatively to us, they can suggest it might be by referring to some of their members of the law that they've interpreted, the members of the Rules of Procedure, and that it's so for that law. What happens to these two next laws, the Unique Rules and the Indirect Taxation that they no longer propose, they demand. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, they didn't follow what was the conclusion of this first Excise Act, and what Dom adopted on the following laws, they're absolutely not the same, not the same. So he can't come to us then he's here. Proposer of the House of Peoples and to combine the debate when we do not have the same proposals as the conclusions that [[the speaker is warned on time]] They also state in their discussions that they are not respected [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22200	I'm warning the MP on time. 99 Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22201	The unique rules and I ask that it be apparent that the legislator gets his 15 minutes in accordance with Article 75 and that the College is being shown whether you had information on behalf of the House of People.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22202	Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22203	Madam Chairman, who knows which way, so I'm finding a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 74, Article 75, I'll read it to you again, and then you're legalizing us with the lessons that we need, as we don't understand, you understand. Article 74. The promoter, or representative of the promoter, is obliged to attend the House session. Who's that? Who's the man? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let them tell us who it is, so we know who we're talking to. Members of the BiH presidency can, and members of the Council of Ministers are required to attend the House sessions. In the absence of a proposal for an act, it shall not be discussed unless the House decides otherwise. Article 75. Participation in the debate – a representative or other participant in the debate at the House can speak when requested and received words from the Chairman of the House, but no longer than 10 minutes. 2. The legislator has the right and obligation. Can you interpret what a commitment means? The legislator has the right and obligation before the debate begins. And you see me here for seven hours we have been discussing, and as it does not say... so read – the legislator has the right and obligation before the start of the debate to explain the proposal for a 15-minute bill. So he has an obligation, he has an obligation to stand before us and say it. Applications for participation in the debate may be submitted by the end of the hearing. So, Madam Chairman, you see this Bog knows which way here tonight... So, as much as you need to be so unfair to us and we have an obligation to point out that, and we're going to run some of that relationship's next steps, the College to this thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22205	Go ahead, I can't wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22206	So don't get in the word. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22207	She's right, I run the session, don't you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22208	So, you can't wait or wait, so you don't need to discuss with me...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22209	Please report for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22210	I did, and you're breaking.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22211	Say yours, you have your word
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22212	you are violating the Rules of Procedure because you have allowed further discussions to take place, and Article 75(2), the legislator has an obligation to explain before the start of the debate the draft law for 15 minutes. Now let me tell you, look, we're gonna handle it, so we're gonna run the procedure in which we're gonna look, run a procedure for changing people who run the College like this. So, I don't think that we sitting here didn't really choose us, not to express ourselves now, uh, in some other way, to do to us what you're doing. And so we'll be in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22213	I'm warning you, you're acting inappropriately, counselor, I'm warning you by who knows which time in the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22214	You're warning me what I'm saying is...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22215	Yeah, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22216	Madam Chairman, so I'm asking that we make a record of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So here's the secretary's listener, record-keeping that you're finding a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and here I've read to you several times tonight that the promoter has an obligation. to come out and explain the bill. [[the speaker is warned on time]] We're here, you won't tell us here for seven hours who the promoter is. Nobody came out, nobody said a word. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, I ask for a record to be found, written down, so this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then through that stenogram that I spoke about several times today, we will count all this relationship and so we will find these arguments why Parliament cannot be governed in this way. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22217	Once again, for who knows which time, today you have already appeared on the same agenda point in a way that the Proposer is obliged to explain his proposal. I said, and I asked the promoter, because there was another intervention, and I can't give a word to someone who doesn't ask for it. If the motionary who sits here doesn't want to talk, he's present on behalf of the law, he doesn't want to explain, I can't give a word of force. I repeat once again, the business provision stands, and I give by application if anyone wants, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it has the obligation and the possibility. Let's move on, Momčilo Novaković rectification of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22218	The false allegation is Gasal-Vražalica there are two laws in the procedure. First, none of us know how many laws there are in the process, perhaps even three exist in the light of the laws proposed by colleagues from the club, they also proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. There is one who has proposed a Council of Ministers, which was lost in the meantime on its way from the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives. There's one who must have suggested the House of People, and that seems to me to be the final number if I haven't made a mistake. There's a serious question here who's the Proposer of the Law. If he is the Proposer of the Law to the People's House, then it would be fair of us to release the Minister and Chairman of the Council of Ministers so that people don't sit here until late at this time when they're not proposing. If there's anything to worry about human health, it would be correct to free people from these obligations. And if they're the promoters, then let's free Mr. Softić who's not often here, and I think he's gotten a completely different picture of us than he's ever had before. So it would be a good idea if we could clear up who the bill's proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22219	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22220	Let me get up first, 'cause I'm stuck here today, so here's the funny part, and I'm serious. Mrs. Maja and Mr. Šepić, I'd like to ask you to follow the session, I'm serious right now. You heard well that a gentleman from the House of Nations was called and that he was offered to explain the laws as a proposer. He felt the same way that we humans who are accepting without any problems were everything and that everything that was never clear to us and we are not clear at all now and that there is no need to explain anything to us. So we're gonna go through with this, and nobody's gonna explain to us what's clear, that we're clear on what's not clear at all. So we need to understand that it is unclearly becoming clear, and it is becoming even more unclear. And so now I can spin for three days and that's how they spin us here all day long, and we're finally going to leave, and we're all clear because we don't understand anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22221	Correction of the wrong allegation, the violation of the Rules of Procedure Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go, counsel. 102 I apologize to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22222	I Ponović what my colleagues have said, that you are violating Article 75(2). The legislator has the right and obligation before the start of the debate, and since we are now voting on, to discuss the procedure is nearing and to discuss the law, probably or not closer, unless Mr. Softić will explain this Law please, is that it is too late, ask Mr. Čolak or someone to come to us and tell us what sentence of the Law. Uh, because... anyone from the College could probably go home to the people, uh, explain the law. Get someone, and there's Tadić, we're going to complete this and constitutionality, and here's something to find out what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22223	Correction of the false quote, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22224	Mr. Momčilo Novaković, it is true that you said there are several laws in the procedure, but now I am asking again the question that has arisen whether from the Rules of Procedure, Article 127 of the bill is considered to be passed when both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly adopt it in the same text. So we don't know what the text of that bill that was on the House of Peoples is because it's one of the proposings, we now have another promoter, and now we don't know if it's the same laws, if it's lost, if someone's stolen, because now we're not stealing the budget, we're stealing the laws. So, here's a lot of confusion, and I'm asking one question right now, and it's worth it to us if this is going to pass today as they're going to vote for the excise or this set of excise duties, in eight days, I guess it's going to be published, is it in the "officer" that we have to follow, to see who's being published as the legislator, whether it's going to be the Council of Ministers, whether it's the House of Peoples, what's going to happen here, what's going to happen, that's ours _________________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So we don't know who the promoters are, there's another bill of law for one, one of the clubs, so there's a lot of that we have to follow and we have to act a little bit in order for the public to know about the violation of the Constitution, the law in the highest legislative body by the ruling one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22226	Please, jasmin Emrić, counsel, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22227	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'd just like to supplement my colleague Maja to explain this request to her why it's important for the motionary to address us. It's important because in my discussion at the beginning, if you remember, I asked a few very important questions, very important to me, so that I could be asked in this further course of this process. So, the first question I asked the promoter and ask for a decadent answer – what is the urgency of the proposed amendments 103 and the addition of the Excise Act, as well as a set of laws that follow these amendments, and what are the reasons for urgency in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure? Why is no analysis of the current situation done and is it mandatory in accordance with the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I can't keep my voice down, guys. It's been half the night, and I'm a little angry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22229	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22230	Based on which indicator did the proposer determine a 15-fing toll increase? Please, Proposer, please, give me the basics for this increase. The fourth question, what will be the total profit from the proposed increase in excise duties and tolls on an annual basis, and what does that mean in relation to the projection of needs? Question five, what time period is the need for the proposed toll increase, and how did you reach that time period? The sixth question, what are the short and long-term positive and negative effects of introducing the proposed toll increase? Considering that already late, it has already been half a night, please give me only five short-term positive and negative and five long-term positive and negative effects of the introduction of this regulation. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22231	Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22232	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, here's a replica to all those who don't know who the proposer of this law is. I am convinced from the beginning that the Council of Ministers' proposal and I do not have any dilemma, and that is why I propose to Mr. Softić, because it is too late for him to go home, let him sleep, because he certainly does not propose for me this set of excise laws, because the Council of Ministers will, in the next step, discuss the measure of the law, and I will ask my questions to the chairman, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, or the Minister of Finance, Mr. Bevanda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22233	Representative Saša Magazinović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22234	Thank you. Or the discussion of counterpart Emrić, Backović, colleague of the Vražalica, I have several sentences. So, like my colleague Salko Sokolović, I suspect that he is the vijeć of Ministers' Proposer, but I have no proof. You've been convincing us all day that the House of Peoples, I think you've been putting Mr. Softić on this harassment all day long, because a man neither guilty nor obliged has planted his back on something someone else designed as a procedural acrobatic, and I'll say who, but there it is. But still, in order for this to not be based on our five-points, I'm asking you to tell us who the promoter is and to solve that mystery. Because in order to solve what's more complicated if we can't find out who's proposing in the House. Zvizdić was criticised for joining non-transparently, for not leaving the money for road construction, for being an incorrect procedure, for not talking and for the law being knocked down several times. And then the man came and talked to everyone, said and made a different procedure, went to a press conference, said it would be transparent, that he would follow the spending and sent such a law to Parliament. It doesn't matter how anyone votes, but if it were respected until the end, it would be, if nothing, dignified. And then someone, and the people of the SDA say Mr. Genjac, made this procedural acrobatic and made the whole circus from both the House of People and the House of Representatives, and especially from Chairman Zvizdić. Zvizdić multiplied by zero, Bevanda was harassed by man sitting here and it was very incorrect for the Council of Ministers. If the Proposer is the Home of the People We've been trying here since this morning to find the Council of Ministers' opinion that doesn't exist. [[the speaker is warned on time]] But maybe if we stop this whole discussion, maybe it's best if you tell us who the bill promoter is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22235	Representative Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22236	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. In fact, it's very hard to say at all in this deaf time, and let's say after all this debate, something other people didn't say, here and now, my colleague Magazinović took what I was going to underline, which is the fact that from the very beginning the whole story of this law was set up somehow wrong and that it was really encouraging when we waited for Chairman Zvizdić to go round with the clubs, it was encouraging and it was over, so everyone started to think a little bit more, and to do so with that transparency he had promised and probably had an intention and to spend. But here is to avoid repeating what others have already said you will allow me to continue where colleague Damir Bećirović stood in one of our analyses, so I will read with a reminder that he was talking consciously about the done, it is very important that such one and retrospective, knowingly done numerous violations of the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. So, as far as he comes, I continue Article 94th position (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, it is prescribed that the bill can be submitted by a delegate, a commission at home, a joint commission, a House of Representatives, as well as by the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers within their jurisdiction. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives are prescribed that the bill can be submitted by the MP or representative, the House Commission, the Joint Commission, the House of Peoples, as well as by the BiH Presidency and again by the Council of Ministers within their jurisdiction. It is evident from the call for the 34th session of the People's House that the formal legal proposal for a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the first reading, the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law in payments to the Single Account and the distribution of revenue, and Proposal 105 of the Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina was actually the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers, as an authorised promoter, has the obligation to attend meetings of committees to discuss bill proposals, home sessions or disposition to withdraw these drafts of the law. Not a single provision of the Rules of Procedure of both homes provides for the possibility that one of the authorised legislators in these cited provisions of the Rules of Procedure may take over another's proposal, we are going all night round about these issues, another's bill and continue with the legislative procedure in the status of the new legislator. This is a legal precedent and we are assessing a serious blow to the legitimacy and legality of the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as a top legislative institution of the state. We remind you that all three draft laws that have been submitted, here we have counted how many there are, in the legislative procedure on two occasions on December 5th and 7th of this year, with numerous violations of the law and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers delivered not only to the House of Peoples, but also to the Representative. So, in turn, here are three sets of different proposing laws in the procedure in front of the House of Representatives. Invoking the House of People to Article 175 (1), (2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly and Article 133. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives represent a flagrant violation of these very provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, Article 175(1), (2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly prescribes the regulation of a particular question of a conclusion which is by no means or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure, the obligation and duration of this conclusion. I'm running out of time, obviously.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22237	It's expired.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22238	Some of our analysis has to go on, so here we are so you don't warn me that I'm done. I'll keep track of where we're at. Someone's gonna pick up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22239	Deputy Mladen Bosić. Here you go, pal. Debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22240	I don't think we needed this, 1:10 a.m., now that I think they're awake and only thieves, criminals, you can probably find a few drunks on the street, all because of the decision that at any cost, not choosing funds, at this point adopt a law that will make you all uncomfortable tomorrow that he's adopted. But this kind of discipline of MPs, 42 MPs and MPs from the majority not to get out of place so they wouldn't compromise the quorum, which I think is not remembered so far, and obviously this question that may be beyond all the issues that we have discussed so far is so important, but not for the people, but for someone else who has asked the MPs or the heads of their parties obviously received the promise that this law that should be passed to them. When's the proposer? It is clear who is the Proposer, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers everything else is an unworthy petty scam from those who came up with this procedure, and I am sorry that, in some way, you have dirtyed and the future work of this Parliament. I hope, I don't think, after this, that by the end of this term, this House of Representatives will no longer have credibility, he's never had it much before, but from now on, it will be difficult to regain this credibility that is lost today. I don't know how you're going to convince people that a procedure has been broken when this is the most obvious example of trying to bypass something that's perfectly normal. I think it's the hardest thing to do tonight for Mr. Arnaut, who's reporting for every item of the agenda regarding the broken Rules of Procedure, and he had to sit here all night so he wouldn't disturb anything, so that the sooner we could get to the vote, and at the end of the day, I think we're all uncomfortable after this session. And for whom, for whose account? For someone else's account, here is the head of this story, not Vigemark, the head of this story is the head of the EBRD's representation, he is today making a statement that the disastrous roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the worst roads in the region are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and he is taking care of the roads. They're worried already you know why, and I would remind you of their activity that was similar to this, and it wasn't long ago, when there was a debate about Swiss and loans in Switzerland when the same people visited the MPs, doing the same thing they're doing now for excises - and why? For the sake of all foreign banks that made huge profits at the expense of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who had to borrow from these same banks because of their poverty. And I hope that someone will also be ashamed of this situation and what we're doing together, not only about this issue tonight, this question has just, at least to me, left some bitter taste, but that someone will think about what we're doing and of those who are making politics here, but I also think that both representatives of the international community and especially Mr. Vigemark, forgive me for mentioning it, is that you're very sensitive when someone from the international community is mentioned, Mr. Vigemark and others have lost a lot of their personal credibility in people, if they've had it, and they've had some respect for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That respect tonight will be much less than it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22241	I thank and here I cannot conclude, that in some way the Rules of Procedure has been broken, because of the other MPs I have to say, because here is the debate on these points on emergency procedures. I don't think these emergency procedures have anything to do with what we've heard, but here's for college reasons we let us hear, so here's what this could do and how it could contribute to this House's work. Zaim Backović, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22242	I know, I know, Jahorina's close to us, I know. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I know, I know, I know. As regards Article 117(1), and as regards Article 118(1), Article 121, (2), (3) and (4), and Article 123, none of this is respected tonight in this House, but nothing, and I ask you as a College of this Assembly to do something to at least us who are obliged to respect the procedures and laws of this country. I ask you so that we do not bring into question the public of this country, to tell us, give us – what, who, how, in what way etc. Is it about the members and the attitudes I mentioned and why is it not respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22244	I understand you've abused the Rules of Procedure in this case. 107 Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22245	I would correct certain allegations, Mr. Bosić, because it is evident that it is not clear here who is the promoter of whether it is the House of People and whether the Council of Ministers is still there and it is evident that there are still those who are awake and likely to sell, neither do I know what, these, and that we, too, have them, are still awake and it is obvious that the Rules of Procedure here has been violated in an incredibly large number of cases and therefore, in accordance with Article 90, I demand that voting in this case be a vote by calling, because I do not believe in the truth of the results and I do not believe in what we get by the electronic system, because there are problems all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22246	Representative Borislav Bojić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22247	Very short, just and exclusively about the procedure. So the emergency procedure makes it impossible for us MPs to act in amendment, there is one very important question that we should observe through the amendments, which is the question of blue diesel. That is why I would like to say a few sentences about the blue diesel and the need for farmers in the Republic of Serbia, while already dragging their hands into the pockets of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens, of course, to return at least some of those funds to the farmers, because let me remind you that we have spoken on this subject several times and on many occasions here in the Parliamentary Assembly. If an emergency procedure were to be voted upon, we would be practically disabled if we could act amendmentically. I am aware of the facts, I am tired of not knowing how other colleagues are, but it seems to me that since 10:00 we are working and that the question of how psycho-physically capable we are and whether we are going to be able to vote and make a decision, we are going to make a certain kind of mistake that will make such a burden on citizens and the Republic of Serbia and the Federation and the Brcko District, that we will send them a New Year's card telling them that there will be more electricity from tomorrow, that there will be more expensive bread or bread from tomorrow, that there will be more expensive vegetables, that there will be more expensive fruit, that there will be more expensive transport, all the cost of living with which citizens and the Republic of Serbia and the Federation and Brcko District, because simply their budgets can't provide an objectively or consumer basket, nor can, therefore, from the income that they pay the directors, and we will now increase their prices. And the increase in fuel prices will practically increase all of this that I was just talking about. That's why I think at this time, as Bosić said, it's not an instruction to make any kind of decision, and I would ask the Kolegijum to think about stopping the session and continuing it in reasonable time tomorrow, so that we can first of all find out who the promoter is, is it objective that we still haven't found out who the promoter is, and that if we knew who the Proposer is then we'd certainly have the possibility that We can act in a manner that's unambiguous and that sort of way. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22248	Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22249	A few colleagues mentioned consciously done numerous injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so I have an obligation to replicate in this regard. So, one part of the discussion was taken by fellow Bosić, when 108 said it was so interesting that about these things people who would vote for this, some have voted before, some are obviously now ready to vote for some of their reasons, keep silent for seven hours, nobody to get up to say two sentences, people... we should continue to work after this. Come on, what Izetbegović obviously does with this again save Dodik, does anyone have to explain to me, so you people what you're voting for right now and what you're going to vote for, so can you in any way convince us that this isn't who knows which way to save Milorad Dodik, that he's doing what he was doing today on Jahorina, that he's making some, what's called, new platforms, to arrange some new, as I would say, new common approach to something in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So remember, all of you who put us in a position like this, here's eight hours we're sitting here, so nobody gets up to talk about that, about the fact, about the metrics, the argumentary word. So, remember, I repeat, it's all in the stenogram of what we've been saying here tonight and how much you've been kicking, twenty-something people here tonight who should probably be defending attitudes, you have at least as much, as I would say, self-respect, defending what you're going to do and why you're going to raise your hand. I mean, look at the vice president laughing, of course he's got his own needs, he's got something funny, I'm in your shoes, I wouldn't laugh, Mr. Chairman, vice president. I'm telling you that the result of this relationship and decisions like this, so what I was just talking about, here are no colleagues, which is absolutely a party, absolutely for, so because we're going back to the beginning now, this is how it started, Čović, this part of Izetbegovićev, as it is called, followed by SDA, Dodik and here's Radončić. Well then once absolutely for, then once a few sessions absolutely against Absolutely again for, but no one's saying anything. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And know I wasn't saying this for no reason, the way you're doing this is fighting to save Dodik and his policy, to work in Bosnia and Herzegovina this. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And you guys keep on acting the way you're acting. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22250	Representative jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22251	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Because of this secrecy and silence, I would like to propose to the Proposer, whoever it is and wherever he is now, that, in the principles of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accises, we should include the following principles which I call four Ns, and they are next – inconsistencies, in the last six months, we have completely obstructed the proposals of these laws which indicate complete inconsistencies. Unfoundedness – there is no analysis of the current situation and no justification for these proposed amendments and additions to the Excise Act. Untrustworthy -- citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina are very untrustworthy of this bill. And the fourth principle, uncertainty – the general public and all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina feel uncomfortable and insecure because they do not know what kind of blow their modest budgets will be after the adoption of this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22252	Thank you. In this moment, I see no longer reported, I conclude the debate on the proposal of three laws, points 3, 4 and 5 of the emergency procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, counselor. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22253	The President-in-Office, I have asked very clear questions to the Proposer and I expect the Proposer to carry out his obligation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to answer the questions asked or if he does not wish to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22254	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22255	The President-in-Office, I have mentioned the members several times through my discussion and I ask for Article 75 to contact the House, if he is the speaker, to go out for a pay phone and say that he has nothing to say, that he is an authorised promoter that this can be a stenogram and that it can be noted in the record, that it can be written down.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22256	Denis Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22257	Today, many members of the Rules of Procedure have been broken, and in the coming days we will probably have to describe it precisely in one request that will be made. But the problem isn't just that, the problem is that tonight we've come to a kind of red line below which I don't know how we can go. It is unremembered from Dejton to this day, in any part of the agenda, that you have MPs who at least now demand that when we pass such an important law, so financially difficult, that no fundamental obligation can be fulfilled in every parliament of the world, which is to come out in this House and give an explanation. All possible members have been hit today, but here we have come to this red line, to that break point, and now you have, therefore, the request of half of this Parliament here we ask that the Proposer address. It'll be very, very, very wrong if one such request is ignored now. It is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure, it is fully in line with the work of all the parliaments of the world and this Parliament until tonight and tonight, and here again, therefore, we call on you to give at least so much respect for this highest legislative body. You yourself, here and as chairman, you know that by any point in the agenda, when one MP says about any report, we need clarification, the promoter comes out and gives an explanation and clarification. Here now all the debaters who participated in the debate are asking for it, those are dozens of MPs. It's impossible to disrespect. What's the problem, then, is now that someone comes out and says something that's perfectly normal in every parliament in the world. I ask you not to ignore this fact, but to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the way you have acted in the previous months and years.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22258	Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22259	Madam Chairman, I pray that you will, to conclude, count how many times we have, and that is what my colleague Denis Bećirović has said, I think that we have half of Parliament asked for this, so to determine how many times we are tonight, how many people are individual and how many times we have asked for Article 75 to be respected. Rules of Procedure on the work of this House. So, to talk to one of the promoters, now who these people are, here I don't mind going out for a pay phone at the same time and saying something, but that we have some, that we have some answer. So that exists on the other side of some kind of, some kind of relationship. So I ask you to count in this sense how many times we have so far asked to respect Article 75 and to inform us all here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22260	I repeat several times, as far as my side is concerned, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The prisoner, or promoter... an envoy by the House of Nations sitting here, has heard several times to address this House, it refers to him. I asked and now I ask the Proposer – does he want to? I can't give a word to anyone who doesn't want to answer and get out in front of this pay phone. Saša Magazinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22261	The President-in-Office, with the full respect that you have called, stands in the Rules of Procedure as an obligation, so it is a duty, and here MPs have raised a very large number of questions. [[Common discussion]] No, okay, okay, I'll wait, it doesn't matter to me what. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22263	It's all right. (Laughter in O.R.) It's not for laughing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22265	So, you did offer, but this is a matter of the Rules of Procedure that says exactly what it is, what it is, and it literally writes there, and if we're going to stick to the Rules of Procedure at least in that segment, then it would be an obligation to hear it. We have asked some general questions, and here is a colleague, Emrić, who has had a number of very contentious questions that have now intrigued all of us, and in fact we have been prevented from stating this Law properly when we do not have those answers. Here's what you've explained to us in an hour I don't know which one's the promoter, and here's the deal. Now we've located who's the promoter. And can we now, here's a being, there's also a debate about the metrics probably, if we can ask questions, if we can run this session the way we run it every time or if there's some new rules. If they've performed, let us know to fit in, yes, let's see if, new time, new rules, here's what we'll fit into these new rules just let us know. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22266	Please, Aleksandra Pandurević, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22267	Please, I am trying to protect the integrity of this Parliament, many very serious questions have been raised here, and it is indeed very irresponsible by the promoters for this House to refuse to answer one question. I wonder if the motionary has even been authorized, has the College of the House of Nations authorized him? When did the College of the House of Nations decide that he was authorized to represent the House of Peoples here? Have the MPs, delegates in the House of Peoples made that decision who will represent here? The promoter has the right and obligation, please don't humiliate us here and destroy this Parliament, so have we come to the point that the SDS should defend the House of Representatives from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22268	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22269	The Honorable Chairman, Article 75(2), and it is not really up to you, it should be determined, You have indeed read as the chairman on several occasions that the Proposer has rights and obligations and somehow in your address You are looking to Mr. Softić as a Proposer, but perhaps he is not a Proposer. So maybe if you were to point something at it, maybe they were the promoters, I mean, because we still don't know who the promoter is. So maybe Mr. Softić doesn't feel called to speak to the esteemed House, so we need to first determine who the law-setor is, and then invite that person or persons to contact us.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22270	Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22271	I again call upon the same member of the Rules of Procedure, that the legislator has the right and obligation to seriousise ourselves and this House to at least hear the answers to the questions asked by colleagues and nothing more. Is it illegal to expect that whoever proposes the Law does not say that to the House, so I beg you, you have not yet spoken the word who is the Proposer. Tonight I heard the Council of Ministers, Safet Softić, Halid Genjac, Wigemark, I don't know, uh, which is four of them, but what should be a commitment is a minimum of some kind that awaits any MP who has been considerate and responsible to analyse the law, finds some kind of dilemma, to get an answer to what he has a dilemma. So it would be very, very, very good for those who, who, here I am not some big constituencies in these areas of finance and these excises, to explain to me a little bit, that I know how I'm going to vote, because I don't want to be someone who's going to prevent the border of highways, macadams, sidewalks, etc. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, kindergartens, schools, roads, all that is listed by this certain, certain foreign diplomats who should not even mention in their country what we are in Bosnia and Herzegovina and, therefore, on this note, the esteemed deputy chairman, Mr. Džaferović, instead of defending the wartime wartime wartime invalid, Mr. Sokolović, he defends Wigemark. So, all the portals transmitted, Mr. Džaferović defends along and across Mr. Wigemark, and when 112 is insulted by the wartime wartime wartime BiH Army, then shut up. So here's the question why is that, why have some standards changed in this House? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22272	Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22273	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22274	Madam Chairman, I am for a reason and will do so several more times, I have asked you for a reason and asked you to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And so, you just said, every time I finish my discussion, you say you're not hiding the Rules of Procedure, and I'm saying you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Now, I'll tell you again why. So my question is whether the working conditions have been met, Madam Chairman, are the working conditions met? So, you have an obligation to hold a session according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 75, the proposaler's obligation is to explain the bill, if it does not, what does the chairman do? So, your chairman, the obligation, here is Article 27, so, among other things, creates assumptions for full exercise of rights and the exercise of the duties of MPs, prescribes acts, takes all measures to ensure a peaceful and orderly debate including a delay for a short period of time, taking care of the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure. Madam Chairman, you do not worry about the consistent application of this Rules of Procedure, because I warn you several times tonight, you have an obligation to call and ask for it to appear and indicate who the famous promoter is. See what article 27 says, in the position (2) – in the performance of the above-mentioned duties, the President of the House consults with the Vice-Presidents, do you consult with these people, as you do in this regard, co-operation? So, do you ensure that this House and that this session is conducted today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? So here I am again finding that it is written that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, because you have not provided, if the Proposer refuses, that is what it says in this Rules of Procedure, that he has an obligation to explain the Law. Because you see, if he explained the law to me tonight, we wouldn't need 90% of us to discuss it this way. And now you keep trying to completely ignore us, tell us that you have no obligation to answer us. If one of these promoters doesn't, if he's in this room, if he's not in this room, if he's not in this room, if he's not in this room, if he's not in this room, if there's no Skype, if there's any intrusion, if none of these people will answer, Madam Chairman, you have an obligation to take a break, you have an obligation to interrupt the session. What you're doing to us, 10 hours like this, you're exhausting us, I mean, you and me, just like these people sitting here know you're wrong. That's why I'm here, who knows which time I realize you've broken the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking for a record to be found in breach of Rules of Procedure and Article 75, and this time I'm adding Article 27.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22275	Who knows which time I find your proposal in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure is not justified, i.e. your objection based on Article 76. Damir Bećirović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I find that all those who are now reporting abuses of the Rules of Procedure because they appear several times, please, has anyone received a word? Did anyone get a word in? 113
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22276	Why not, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22277	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22278	I got the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22279	I find that all those who appear after the same injury, the injury, their objection is not justified, I agree as the Chairman of the House, I do everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to make this House completely normal and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that everyone says clearly, and in this sense this debate is now about 15 times the application of the Rules of Procedure's infringements in the same way. I think we should all take a look at each other, but let's move on. Damir Bećirović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22280	I agree with you that you should look up here, uh, upstairs and decide what to do. Here, and I find that you violated the Rules of Procedure and did not provide the motionor in the O.R. to explain to us, in accordance with article 75, this Law. I am getting closer to believing what my colleague Magazinović said, that Mr. Softić is not at all a proposing, and that he is not authorized by the House to be, to explain what they have, as they have adopted in the short run, I think, at the request of the Council of Ministers, which means that you have definitely violated the Rules of Procedure, that there is none of the promoters in the hall, that he is out of the hall and that he is not addressing the MPs in the way that he should, according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22281	Agent, I understand that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and your objection is not justified. Mirsad, Mešić, MP, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22282	Dear Chairman, I think that you are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure for the reason that by looking at Mr. Softić you confirmed that he is the promoter. If he's the promoter, you haven't convinced us that it's really on the College of the House of Peoples that you're looking at a no-verified promoter, we're breaking the Rules of Procedure both.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22283	Your Honor, I don't think it's appropriate for you to say who I'm looking at. I'm looking at all of you, MPs, and here you are, so I didn't say you were the law's promoter. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22284	I thank the chairman. I think we've been having a rough debate here for hours, and we don't have any conditions to discuss at all, because Article 104 says – the bill promoter or the proposed representative is obliged to attend all discussions on the bill's proposal. Here we see the esteemed Mr. Softić, however, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples say that the Chairman of the House represents the House, Article 27(3) – in the event of the prevention of the House of Speakers, the First Vice-President assumes the office of the House of Speaker. The Chairman of the dom was not prevented and gave no authority to be here for him, thank you. So, we don't have a proposer at all, and we're asking that this point be removed from the agenda, because we don't have a promoter, business conditions aren't met.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22285	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22286	Article 97 Rules of Procedure. If tonight goes the way you imagined what would happen? According to Article 97, draft laws, session materials, commissions and other proposals addressed to the Parliamentary Assembly, therefore, in both homes, are published on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's website. The adopted laws after publication in the Official Messenger shall be published on the website. So, in the Official Messenger, maybe one will be published by, because we have one Council of Ministers' proposal, let's assume that somewhere there's another Proposer, so we have two different bill proposals, or we should form some ad hoc commission that will deal with harmonising the text of both laws, whether it's the same text or not, so I want to prevent us from acting as Dom here, because what can happen? It may happen after, perhaps, tonight somewhere or in the morning, at 5, 6, when this is over, that someone sends a year to Wigemarka vibera message and says – it's settled, finished, he takes off making a cake, invites you to cookies again, and we have two different texts, maybe these are not the texts that need to be adopted. So what's nobody going to know, so we here as the Dom are going to embarrass ourselves in front of that international community again, so don't let us get in the way, because someone really cares what the international community thinks of us, and they don't care at all, what citizens and citizens think of them, so I don't know how we're going to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22287	I also find that you have misused the business provision, because we have neither stated the emergency procedure nor, let alone the law, so that we cannot absolutely discuss the publication of acts or adopted proposals. Željko Komšić, representative, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22288	In fact, try to solve this situation somehow that's getting really crazy. Until we resolve this enigma about the promoter or until the proposed representative decides to address us, which is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that we postpone the plea, both on the procedure and on the scale of this agenda point. It would be logical, wouldn't it, if we knew 115 at least what it was about, that's my suggestion, to try and come up with a solution, but give Bog the daughter to take you, how things go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22289	A fellow deputy, Mladen Bosić, rectification of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22290	I want to correct my own guilty quote. A moment ago, don't laugh and don't throw it away, I've just claimed that the Council of Ministers' Proposer, now I've heard that it's not the Council of Ministers, that claim,... Mr. Softić, and it would be nice to explain it to us, so since it's now the People's House proposal, how they adopted this proposal without legislative procedure in the House of Peoples. The proposal did not go through the legislative procedure, but passed the Council of Ministers proposal. Does this mean that if this proposal goes through here, then it will go back to the House of Peoples in the procedure, into adoption, how should this be done by the Rules of Procedure? When you're lying and you're messing around, then you always get involved, it's just a question of when it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22291	Nenad Lalić, MP, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22292	Thank you, Chairman. I would still like to join Mr. Komšić's opinion, so much this proposal has caused conflict and dissension here that I think however he votes, uh, there will be one ugly picture left. I think the morning is smarter than the night that it would be good to postpone this for tomorrow in a way, so let's take a good look at all this, see if in the meantime this famous proposer shows up to talk to us, and then cold heads make some adequate decision, while keeping some good collegiate and interparty, political relations, because we're tired anyway, and I don't think it's wise to make these decisions right now. So I suggest we take this point off the agenda for tomorrow if we leave anything behind.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22293	Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22294	I join my colleagues who have proposed to postpone voting on these matters until we have answered some previous questions, and in case you decide to go to the vote, so I ask that by Article 90, the vote be held by a call. We have real, legitimate doubts. All the things you've done so far, it gives us the right to doubt everything you do. So, Article 90, I would ask in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can interpret it in your own way now, and I would skip it, and I would say, as it is called, to realize that you can do it differently, but I ask that, in accordance with Article 90 of the vote, a call be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22295	Representative jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22296	I thank the chairman. I would actually ask Secretary dom to explain to me whether this law, which we are discussing, has been delivered to the Council of Ministers in accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22297	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22298	Now you've confused me again about all of these, I'm not really clear now whether there's a billie in this room. Well, no, so if, I think this, this proposal by Mr. Komšić may be the most acceptable, that in these conditions when the College of the House broke the Rules of Procedure, but that this law came to this House in this form, I don't think even the regime lawyers can answer it anymore at this time. Now, I know that this regimeal law as an object doesn't exist on the Legal Faculty, but here it is not burning to introduce it, that when this country puts things upside down by interpreting these regime lawyers, it can at least work that way in the future. I ask you to at least provide answers to a few of these questions that fellow MPs have asked. There are still likely many issues such as those in one of the previous laws, I don't know who could explain this to me that the introduction of excise duties will affect the birth rate in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now, who's the expert in this room, I think, and I'm the closest thing I can think of is that it's not Halid Genjac, since he's a gynecologist, but it would be good to get someone here to ask that question. that the excises affect the birth rate. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Very interestingly set thesis, here's something I should learn in this House in the '60s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22299	Representative jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22300	I thank the chairman. I would ask the secretary to remove my dilemma and give an answer. I asked a question, there's no answer, the secretary's here, please remove my dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22301	Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22302	Madam Chairman, several times tonight, I have repeatedly pointed to the alleged injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Since several colleagues have proposed a correct, correct proposal, delay the vote on these matters until we have answered some of the most basic questions. Don't force it, don't put us in such a position that we all feel this way together here in this room. So I wrote the conclusion, I gave it to multiply, don't put anything to the vote until we vote on the conclusion. So, the conclusion, written, is that we urge you to postpone voting on these matters until we answer the most basic questions of respect for the Rules of Procedure, or the question of who is proposing these points of today's agenda. 117 So here, I wrote it, you have in writing until the officers who are able to put it to the vote, so let's see if we can find enough wisdom to get out of this one more honest way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22303	jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22304	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Here's to my earlier request, I'd like to ask the secretary why he's ignoring my request to direct me to the part where he expressed his doubts, or dilemma.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22305	Everything that was necessary for the laws in the procedure we read at the beginning, so under the points when the debate on emergency procedure was opened. At this point, I no longer see the reported, jasmin Emrić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22306	I apologize if I was so careless seven, eight hours ago, so I didn't notice all these arguments, which support the questions asked, and I doubt it was like that, once again I ask to answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22307	Thank you. No more reports, I'm guessing we've closed the debate. We now have a proposal for a conclusion on points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, we propose that the vote on points 3, 4 and 5 be postponed until it is determined who is the Proposer of this Act. I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. Of the 42 present – for 20, against 22, there are no abstentions. There's no general majority. I find that the proposal for a conclusion has not been adopted. We move on to a statement on the point's proposal, we've established, you haven't expressed any doubt before, nor have we explained, we move on to a statement on points 3. At the peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2808-/17 of 11.12.2017. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for this Emergency Procedure Act. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22308	procedures. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22309	Please, first of all, we're pleading to the procedure. Please repeat the vote. About the emergency procedure, I made it clear. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22313	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22314	Emergency procedure. _________(?) You keep saying we passed the bill. [[no microphone turned on]] I said - an emergency procedure of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, by an urgent legislative procedure, I made it clear. 119 We also move to a statement on point 4, also the emergency procedure of the Payments Act in the Single Account and the distribution of revenue by emergency legislative procedure in accordance with Article 133. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2809/17 of 11.12.2017. Please make a statement. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22316	Well, there's no business at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22317	There are no business injuries at the time of the vote. [[Common discussion]] Please repeat the vote. Of the 42 present – for ____________(?) The system's not working.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22320	...a half hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22321	No breaks, this is the same agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22322	Please, please be clear, don't be an abuse. We're at the same points, we've been making statements about the procedure. The discussions and breaks you've been looking for are at the same points. The debate can be held, but you can't ask for a break at the same point twice. jasmin Emrić, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22323	I have noticed, the Honorable Chairman, that I do not have an equal position in this House because I am being denied interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, and when it comes to interpreting some other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you react immediately, and I am curious as to why it is so. Why don't I get an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22324	Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22325	Well, I have asked you, Madam Chairman, to respect the Rules of Procedure and to allow us to plead with the way we raise our hands. Why didn't you appreciate that? Why, say, didn't you appreciate that? Can you now interpret how this member of the Law, this member of the Rules of Procedure, is further in violation? Please, come on, come on, and consult with the secretary, and with this lawyer second, and give us an explanation, Article 90. So take Hazime, make this fair, give her authority, then do it yourself, make it, so don't get in, raise your hand, then turn around, say something. Madam Chairman, the call vote applies when the President of the House, it is You, and You are not, You have no need, everything here is clear to you today, or at the proposal of any MP, an assessment necessary to remove doubts about the correctness of the vote results. Why don't you let us vote by raising our hands? So, you do not think that this should be done, I consider it an MP, and I have warned you during the discussion and I have told you about it, and here I am now asking you to return to that procedure, and I ask you first of all to acknowledge, therefore, that you are recording the injury and at this point, this member of the Rules of Procedure, and I am asking you to allow us, in accordance with Article 90, to plead with us by voting in a way that raises our hands. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22326	I thank and find that according to these changes absolutely no one has expressed any doubt that would be justified in the electronic voting system that would again, we have concluded the vote, You have proposed it but we voted in accordance with Article 90 and my assessment as a proponent at this time and on your proposal was not justified in the sense that no one has said in any way that he voted in one way and that possibly the electronic system showed him that he voted otherwise. Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22327	I again, Madam Chairman, warn you of the same things. First of all, I'm going to ask you to deliver a stenogram, to say that no one has questioned you during the procedure. As he did not express his suspicion, Mr Bećirović spoke to you three times. Aleksandra
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22328	He asked for a repeat vote and we allowed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22329	Yes, yes, but in accordance with Article 90. I was telling you this, suggesting a conclusion before that, during the discussion I asked you to do so. Well, I mean, what you're doing, you've got 22 hands, we've seen who the people who once were in, and now, as they're called, against or against, okay, here you are. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have an obligation, uh, to allow this member to respect what we have now done technically, electronically, now raise our hand. So, at least of those 75 violations of the Rules of Procedure, as far as you've done today, you're going down to 74. I mean, I really don't see why you're doing this. I mean, put it aside and, uh, put it all aside now, but what are you doing? You still assure us, we are all sitting here in the hall and you assure us that no one has expressed any doubt, Aleksandra spoke about it, colleague Aleksandar, Damir Bećirović, so I spoke about it, before I would start voting I warned Mrs. Chairman of this matter. It's the first thing, the second thing, just a little bit, just a little bit, can you interpret to us on the basis of which the member, so you've made a decision that we don't have the right now, when we're talking about the metrics, that we don't have the right to rest, Madam Chairman? So, can you explain to us on the basis of
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22330	Please, Your Honor, this has gone beyond measure, I consider this a provocation, in this way and I take away your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22331	You're taking my word?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22332	I take your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22333	On the basis of which you are a member, Madam Chairman... 122
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22334	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22335	Democracy stopped, dictatorship was introduced. What you're talking about, the chairman, that if the electronic voting system doesn't work, then we go by raising the ballots, that's Article 89. None of us here, of these colleagues who were looking for a colleague, have ever mentioned Article 89. We have referred and called for Article 90, and that Article 90, no system or system, if you understand better, does not mention. He says that voting by calling applies when the chairman or, therefore, does not stand here – and on a proposal, you will evaluate, not but stand – either you will ask to evaluate it, or each of us can evaluate it here and ask for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22336	I'm warning you, MPs, you're violating business regulations. We are done with the vote, we have moved to the debate on points 3, 4 and 5, and I ask you to stick to the agenda and do not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22337	The Honorable Chairman, where more is yours
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22338	I take your word. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22339	The legitimacy that you're calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, all the time you've been breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22340	Of course, as you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22341	You have no more legitimacy to interpret the provisions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22342	I take your word. Sadik Ahmetović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22343	First I'd like to ask you not to make a fuss, if it's possible that you...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22344	I'm not yelling.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22345	Now, I'm gonna ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22346	I speak loudly, as you do. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22347	...I'm really talking loudly, but this is starting to take away words, so, MPs, I don't think it's recorded in this House, but come on, maybe it's a new way or we see that it's here, here, some new majority of Izetbegović, Dodik, Radončić and I would like to be answered why the Merit Club doesn't have the right to pause, given that it has the right to discuss both the procedure and the metrics, and there's no right to pause? So, it would be good, uh, if you could tell us why there isn't, maybe it says where, I'm not some great expert on this Rules of Procedure, but I'd like to hear and join what my colleague Šepić said and what Mr. Bećirović and Aleksandra Pandurević were looking for, why didn't you let the vote go individually, why? Don't listen to me, don't listen to me, you have these party arrangements, if they're over.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22348	Agent, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22349	Thank you very much, you had these party arrangements, so I said, don't disturb you...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22350	Regardless, not everyone has to listen at all times, it's important that we don't disturb you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22351	Why, therefore, at the very beginning of the discussion of the request we have said and we repeat, that the debate on excise duties is being held for a year and that it is likely that people who once sat in this room for the same or similar reasons, Mrs Cvijanović, for the same reasons, called the hooves. There has been, however, unconfirmed information so far that individuals and parties from the federal budget are illegally paid in large numbers to change the way they vote in this Parliament. And it's not big numbers, it's hundreds of thousands of marks, and that's why it's important that people aren't this, this is the truth I'm talking about, so you don't believe anything, if you're nervous, don't throw it away, the chairman has these legal consultations with the secretary, I don't know who I'm talking to, there's no proposing. [[Common discussion]] Time's up?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22353	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22354	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22355	Representative Senad Šepić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Before you receive a word, I would like to warn you of the provisions of Article 79, which they say - a representative who has been twice warned at the same session for disregarding the order and provisions of this Rules of Procedure is denied the right to speak until the 124th end of the session if he continues to respect the order and application of this Rules of Procedure. I warn you of this, and now I give you my word, both you and all the other MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22356	So, Madam Chairman, you obviously have an intention, as you've been holding a session all day today and interpreting it in your own way, taking away the word, voting it out the way you did, trust me, you won't be doing it for long. Here, I'm telling you that how you behave, how you run a session and how you plan to run a session, that it won't take long,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22357	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22358	So, two things, two things I want to do business with. So, first thing, where's the proposer now? Here, any suggestions, where is he now, now we've opened the debate? Do we have a proposal? First thing when he's proposing when he's proposing? So, first thing, who's the promoter and the second thing
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22359	Representative, I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22360	Madam, Madam Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22361	that you are provoking and that you are misappropriating business provisions where, under the same provision, you are not reporting a business provision, I am seizing, in accordance with Article 79(3), the right of speech until the end of the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22362	Madam Chairman [[Common discussion]] Let's get out of this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22364	Representative Mladen Bosić, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Deputy. [[Common discussion]] Sure, sure. At the request of the HDZ Club, a 15-minute break. 125 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22367	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, consulting, or what they'd say by now, like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22368	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. I just want to point out that there's a number two debate on the monitors for technical matters, and this is now a debate on the law, so we're going to ignore it. Where's 2, that's number one now, this debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22369	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected guests. First of all, I would like to say that once upon a time, in the 1980s, I ended my economy and that I was taught that economic reforms in particularly undeveloped countries cannot be implemented by increasing tax rates. It's something that used to be like this at the time. Recital Communism, Lazar knows it best.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22370	I'm asking the MPs to respect the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22371	So we've been talking about this issue from the beginning, convinced it's about economic reforms. So the two leading EU countries, Great Britain and Germany, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, at that time, have reduced the need for economic reforms. What we are doing today is not an economic but political issue, because if it were economic, we would be dealing with economic logic here today and any attempt to present this as a reform is really incorrect to science, that is, knowledge, elemental knowledge from the economy. I have here three objectives of the arrangement with the IMF, so one increase in economic growth potential through incentives for development and employment within the private sector, two improvements in the structure and quality of public spending, reducing the level of public debt, and three recoverys in credit growth, and ensuring financial stability by implementing structural reforms. Dangerously, this is from 2016, the IMF added the fourth, and these are excises. I guess because we didn't meet any of these three in order to return the loans we took, so they had to introduce another one to provide us in some way, how they provided themselves with these kind of things, which is actually the essence of what we're dealing with today, and that's why 126 has spent more time lobbying for this than filling out questionnaires. A few days ago, because of some procedure at the hospital, I was in a position to be shaved by these sisters there so that I could perform the procedure there, and I have to say that I felt terribly naked, so naked, very uncomfortable. And I understand these colleagues today who are so naked, not to say after shaving, but after these discussions and I totally understand that they are silent today and I understand that they are not interested in anything other than these figures, and these figures will allow us to return successful loans to the EBRD and the IMF. The roads are going to be made by someone else, we're not going to be able to do it with those numbers, and so I want to make it clear that I am absolutely against economic reforms based on tax increases, i.e. increasing citizens' spending. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22372	Representative jasmin Emrić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22373	I thank the Honorable Chairman. With this discussion, I would like to comment on the basis of the proposals on the basis and reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Excise Act. Unlike the earlier proposal and earlier explanations, these new reasons for adoption are one of the stricter, modern, essays of the promoter on a better and completely new life for all of us after the excise and toll increases in our poor country, and some of the proposals show that there is no tendency to think about the problem in question, because the way the proposer exhibits and concludes there is no consistency. In the reasons for the adoption, the Proposer has defined himself as a declarative and popular approach to explain the amendments in question and supplementing this Act by offering only general phrases on the need for road construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina which prejudges general, economic and economic development without any reliable analysis of data and arguments. The proposer shall not support or offer statistical and numerical indicators after the act of adopting the changes in question or supplementing them, but solely guided by the desire to achieve the aim of increasing excise and toll is merely its conclusions on performance, without justification and any risk or potential threat. The amendments and additions in question represent the absolute well-being that we are entering, the economic development of cities and new investments are not questionable, economic growth and development are unconditional and guaranteed. I ask the question of an authorised promoter, and the Council of Ministers, on what do you base these views? This perception can be created, I can say freely, only by our brave Council of Ministers, which has been offered a few months ago to increase oil excise duties and oil derivatives, says that this proposal is the best solution and that it has no alternative, and here today it proposes a whole new concept of the same thing that increases toll and again states that this is the best solution. Where's the consistency in all this? What moved you to change your approach? Why did you change your mind in the meantime? You have not written anywhere that you have already tried to increase excise duties several times and that it has not passed, and you have not explained why you gave up the earlier proposal and why you are offering this new amendment to the Excise Act? Does this mean that the earlier amendment and supplementation was wrong and who is responsible for such a wrong approach and the whole of the previous legislative procedure? Turns out we've all been wasting our time with so far the failures of the Council of Ministers and their confusion in this matter. The Council of Ministers is obviously playing with us by its changing attitudes by saying that we can be fooled by things, but with this 127 inconsistencies, you are at the same time deluding and confusing the citizens of this country by justifying each of your new proposals on the same thing as the best and only solution. There are probably more proposals on the same subject, but you haven't thoroughly analysed it, and we need to be prepared in the future for a completely new proposal by the Council of Ministers when they say that this is the best solution to launch an investment cycle. Nothing can surprise us anymore. This is also too important a law to change the Excise Act in half a year. Does this mean that the proposer doesn't know the matter when he misses so much of the earlier proposals? Obviously, the promoter only knows that something has to increase, excise or toll, and what will increase it anyway, it is important to increase revenues and do so in the simplest way. In this law, this Council of Ministers meeting has shown all its surfaces in work, disorientation, non-compliance, totally ignoring the profession and formalist approach to solving the problem. [[the speaker is warned on time]] That way you can't run this country, you obviously don't get along in your business. Such important issues, which create energy prices, require studio, responsible, professional and transparent approach, which has not been the case so far. He'll continue my colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22374	Representative Saša Magazinović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22375	So, to continue, the proposer in the reasons for the adoption states that it would not be justified to view the increase in excise and toll rates as a blow to the population, but nowhere explained why. Who will bear the burden of increasing toll and as a result of the increase in energy prices, if not the citizens of this country as the final consumers? How can we not view this proposal as a blow to the population when these first ones are affected by a new increase in oil and oil prices, we just don't know how much they will be affected because the proponent of this conscious evasiveness and irresponsiblely bypasses this most important topic and the most important question that is – how much will be the fuel price after the possible adoption of this set of laws? What and what will be the first wave of financial impact on the real sector, on agricultural producers, on carriers and on all other economic operators whose business and production is dependent on the costs of the transport of goods? The promoter was very irresponsible because he did not project anywhere what impact would be on citizens' budgets after rising oil and oil prices? What are the short and long-term positive and negative effects of the proposed amendments and additions to the Excise Act? There is no such answer in the explanation, and we should vote for this Law. The promoter is so encouraged by this new proposal to say – when he is doing fuel it is realistic to expect to improve the standards of the population, and even build kindergartens, schools, hospitals, homes for old and exhausted faces, all of the means of building roads and highways. So this is completely confusing, and we're interested in what makes the promoter such optimism. On the reasons for the adoption of the proposal, the proponent proposes to increase the toll in relation to the incentive of the birth, which makes this proposal an amendment to the Act on Excises according to the promoter to be classified in the incentive measures to increase the birth rate. So, everybody, yeah, here's some MPs think that if there's not, uh, enough money to spend on something else, that people won't be able to pay for electricity, so it's gonna be dark, so it has to do with Natalie, but it's just one of the creative interpretations, maybe it's something else, but if we can figure out who the promoter is, and then we ask this question, maybe we'll get that answer. Article 7 of the amendments and additions in question amends Article 35 where the proposed position (2) which is not enforceable for the reasons that the same is not in a uniform and decadent manner established the distribution of revenue from tolls, i.e. a consolidated distribution by points (a) and (b) of the attitude (2) had to be in line with the terms and definitions set by road and road laws in 128 Bosnia and Herzegovina. Under point (a), item (2) of the amended Article 35 is determined to pay toll of 0,15 KM for roads. The definition of road is defined by Article 2. The law on roads of FBiH where the road is indicated is any area on which traffic takes place, and roads are divided into public and classified. Public roads, depending on their social, economic and territorial importance, can be highways, fast roads, highways, regional and local roads, and traffic in settlements. Article 4 The FBiH Road Act found that an unclassified road is an area used for traffic on any basis, which is accessible to a larger number of users. also, the definitions in Article 2 are identical. The law on Republika Srpska's roads where it is at point p) states that the road is every public road and the untegrated road on which traffic takes place. Article 9 Laws on Republika Srpska's roads are classified on highways, fast roads, master's, regional, local, settlement streets. Article 2(k) of the Law on the Ways of Republika Srpska has defined the definition of an untegorised route as the area used for traffic and which is available to a number of different users. On the basis of those legal provisions at the level of the entity, it is obvious that the position (2) of point (a) of the amendments in question and the addition of the Excise Act applies to all roads, including highways, which means that, for the construction of highways, the revenues are collected both under point (a) and under point (b), i.e. double collection of funds for highways. Also, the distribution of toll revenues for roads other than highways is twofold, i.e. the introduction of a new term – other roads, and those other roads can only be those which have already been affected by the distribution of 0.15 under point (a) of the attitude (2), as proposed by the Proposer to amend Article 35. So, the key member of this amendment and addition proposal, i.e. the amendment of Article 35, is completely confusing and foresees financing of the same objects in two points. In this way, as amendments to Article 35 are proposed, the application of this Law is questionable, and I call on colleagues and colleagues to vote against it to avoid a certain conflict with regard to the amendments to the law. Most importantly, let's not allow any more worsening the state of life of our citizens and citizens until the necessary conditions and public sector reforms are met to improve economic development, ensure minimum existence [[the speaker is warned on time]] for all the social levels of our country. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22376	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22377	I thank the chairman. I would, above all, really like the proposer to raise us and explain the new member of the 35th position (2) because, as the esteemed colleague Magazinović said, he is completely confused and full of ambiguity, I do not know if the promoter saw what he wrote here. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that on November 15th, businessmen from Bosnia and Herzegovina held a meeting with the IMF in Banja Luka. Among other things, they suggested that the payment of new excise duties on fuel be released from commercial vehicles, and warned that the increase in excise duties would lead to the purchase of goods of products and people, and suggested that only 7% of the rolling stock in Bosnia and Herzegovina be excluded from this increase. Why not these solutions, of the 3 billion toll marks that have been charged so far on the construction of highways, go a billion, please, distinguished colleagues if you can. _________(?) I'm sorry. 129 Republika Srpska has received 400 million marks from it, the Federation 600, on road construction, and the reconstruction of regional roads has gone 2 billion tolls so far, in this period, to build highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina so far, based on loans, linked grants and its own participation of the entity totalled 1,351.000,000 euros, of which amounts to investments to build highways, of that waste, in Republika Srpska 640.000,000 euros or 1.2 billion euros, and the Federation 711,000,000 euros. It is interesting when we recalculate how many highways were built in Republika Srpska and the Federation, we come to the conclusion that although a more favourable configuration is in the Federation, it costs 7.7m euros and 8.1 in Republika Srpska. For the construction of highways in the structure of the invested funds, credit responsibilities for international financial institutions for Republika Srpska are 455m euros or 890m marks, and for the Federation 554m euros. When we sum up dedicated tolls for highways and realized incredits for their construction, and compare them with the value of work done so far on the construction of individual shares, we come to the fact that in Republika Srpska we have total loans and tolls of a billion and 290, spent a billion and 252 million, the difference is missing 38 million. In the Federation, it was stolen from highways and went public consumption of 293 million marks. Who guarantees that this practice will change? Which one of these proposed laws does it say in? Also, I will remind you that two years ago, the World Bank said that increasing the competitiveness of the economy does not require the introduction of new excise duties. It is clear here that the only promoter of new excise duties is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and as its main exhibit, a spokesman or I don't know what else, Mr. Wigemark here. This argument of increasing excise duty, i.e. toll, is indeed superficial and populist, here protects the interests of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, not the interests of those who live here. We may be small or powerless, but that does not mean that we should not be dignified and protect our economic interests. I remember when they were only once in the Hungarian Parliament, Mr Džaferović was respected, it was in the past term, then our colleagues from the Hungarian Parliament told us the following – the way towards the European Union is not easy at all. You'll negotiate, but believe everywhere you don't give up your national interests and be persistent in the negotiations, don't give up, it'll end up worth it. I'm afraid we here in these negotiations are too easy to give in to our own damage. Furthermore, apart from the defined 5c corridor, there is a vague strategy for building a network of highways in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I know that neither the spatial-plan nor the idea documentation was made in Republika Srpska for most traffic directions or at least a feasibility study with a traffic frequency analysis. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Here's the Honorable Chairman, if you'll excuse me for half a minute, we'll be done. And to remind you that this is going to increase our debt that we can't handle and that we already have 3 billion of the funds that we pay for, and I'm afraid that these funds that we get will also be just the funds that we're going to pay for the penals again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22379	Representative Diana Zelenika, debate. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22380	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning to you, I hope you have a good night's sleep. I will briefly, here I know that we are all tired, so this little parody of these events, try to elaborate HDZ 1990 on this problem that we are dealing with today. What first, through a few points, I will try to elaborate, meaning, primarily in the previous 130 negotiations, and I will refer to my conversation with the Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Zvizdić, we have sought only transparency in spending, uh, funds, and now that the most important reason for concern has been removed by forming a special account that is exclusively for road construction, I think that, uh, responsibly accept, here is the excise duty for the reasons that the conditions are met, and to remain consistent. I'm glad that, that a self-proclaimed president of the bloc came in for Europe, because he says someone has changed his mind, I think that he's changed his mind and that he's stepped on somehow halfway to Europe because by reading the Reform Agenda, very often he's asked the Council of Ministers questions, insisted, or initiatives of various, as far as he's come, he's asked the Council of Ministers for a report, so when these initiatives come to the agenda, he didn't even attend those initiatives himself, so that I can conclude that they served for daily political purposes, or maybe the CCI, there to put maybe a few more sentences. It sounds so nice when there are more initiatives, and in doing so, I have to warn him that he still chooses the dictionary when he speaks either for this speaker or for the pay phone across the street by calling people different names and talking about some kind of payment because if he changes his mind and therefore gets the money, there are those of us who have proven ourselves in the real sector, living our whole lives fair and even for their principles, as it did to me, very often my life has been threatened by my principles. But here, some of us know how to take responsibility, uh, at some point, some of us don't. The second key item is the launch of the overall economic development and development of various activities, primarily tourism, for which the example of the Republic of Croatia has come from the construction of the highway network and the largest increase in tourism in the Mediterranean. The next item is the unblocking of 500m euros already secured for strategic projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina for European funds for failing to adopt the Excise Law. Another reminder for this particular selective memory and credibility is the fact that all parliamentary parties signed a statement on the European pathway, so now I don't know what they'd like from time to stop halfway and take a detour. Supporting this law, in fact, is not the support of some government, but of development and the future, I think it should be the interest of both the authorities and the opposition. And finally, in addition to this secured transparency of spending resources, I would suggest a conclusion that reads – the means provided by the adoption of the Excise Law will be used for the simultaneous and even construction of roads from the south to the north, as well as from the same to the west of the country. The Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have special responsibility for implementing this law. I think that the European path has no alternative, on that path we will find the opening of a vote relating to the rule of law, or as a colleague likes to say – equal opportunities for all, so all that has been in the past we will be able to discuss it and we will find the culprit for, for that problem. I think it's much better than getting up maybe even from Tesla and turning off the lights in this hall. And lastly, I will tell you that I wasn't on cookies with Mr. Wigemarka, nor did anyone from my party eat those cookies, even if they were called both hoofs or I don't know, as my colleague Lalić said, so poetically, and she would ask his colleagues questions – did Mr. Nikšić perhaps give adequate explanations when he asked for, or accepted, an initiative to increase the excise duties in April 2014? And I can give it to... to, uh, our services along with this conclusion if anyone's interested. Thank you very much. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22381	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22382	I'm sorry, I'm the correcting of the wrong allegations of hetella. I'm sorry. 131
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22383	It's a mistake, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22384	Yes, it is. I didn't see what I...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22385	You want to apply for then __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] She already checked in, okay. Saša Magazinović, a representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22387	I'm glad Mrs. Zelenika came to the session to begin. There are people who think this is a good solution, and they're really convinced, and I respect them. There are people who are someone's remote toys who are satisfied with that function and perform it the way they do it. I understand those who kept their heads down today, and I don't have any, I don't object to anyone, every one has his own attitude, and every one of them will take whatever action they have to account for. What I promise to do is that the more people find out what kind of attitude anyone has on this matter and let the people evaluate what's right. However, it is confusing, Mrs. Zelenik, when you have already called me, as of all parties here, and there are parties far more serious than yours, you find yourself called and you find yourself defending the Law. Perhaps we are on the trail of this discussion of yours to finally discover who the promoter is, because you are the only one who, today, has said anything affirmative about the law or at least who tried to explain this Law. I don't know where you're coming from this need, or I think I know it, but I'm not one of those people who gets that kind of knowledge in these places, and I think they're going to go public for a lot of things in the next period, so the public will understand why you've recognized yourself in this, and why you're neither guilty nor obliged to defend the law or your position. I think it was better that We're gonna play this game together, but there's gonna be a lot of stuff going on. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22388	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22389	I would really like to see that transparency in the laws, the funds will be transferred to the central bank's account, and then the user will tell the central bank, i.e. entities, will tell me – switch to that and that account. So far, the practice, as I've already said here twice today, has shown that from that user account, one missing 38 million marks, the other missing 293 million marks, and now it's going to be able to disappear a lot more, so much more can go away now. When you look at the audit reports, even if I know about the Republika Srpska highways, the last one was a disaster, and then no one was accounted for. The last report in the National 132 Assembly was, I think, for 2013. Where's the transparency in that? How do we know how to spend money? And especially if we don't talk about people who are headed these roads, one comes to the ear bank taking 2 million from the bank and nothing else is the director. Put in a private pocket of $2 million, the man has a criminal record and we need to trust him with millions like this, please be serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22390	Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22391	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Oh, here's a short replica of the esteemed colleague of Zelenika. Since it has imported the development of tourism in Croatia with the development of cars, a network of highways in Croatia. Well, I think the excessive reason why the Croatian Republic has developed tourism is the possession of the Adriatic Sea, not highways. Our network of highways will very quickly channel funds from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatia and the Adriatic, so we do not need these concepts of mustache and then create a wrong picture in the public. The Adriatic Sea is the cause of tourism development in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22392	Advocacy of Diana Zelenika, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22393	So here's just a brief colleague to Magazinović, I mean that I made the HDZ position in 1990, and I didn't defend the Law at all, nor do I feel called, just on a few occasions it was said here – someone was changing their mind. He didn't change his mind, I wanted to explain to you that we got what we were looking for and that since we are responsible for acting as responsible people and that we see the European Union as the only alternative, that these are some of our reasons. However, my colleague Magazinović did not tell me anything about what I was looking for, which is an explanation that the government of the Federation of BiH accepts an initiative to increase excise duties on oil derivatives signed by Prime Minister Nermin Nikšić on April 28th 2014. How easy it is to talk about someone else, and when it comes to the reasoning of the same item that only the prime ministers from their party are asking for, then it is somewhat harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22394	Representative Damir Bećirović, rectification of the wrong allegation. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22395	Well, I didn't think that anything worse than the behavior of the College would happen yesterday, but obviously we've experienced through this litigation of spinners and this change of mind to hear, at least that they've read, so they know there's not gonna be any new accounts going on, but even some have been shut down, there's going to be problems in the distribution of that money, there's no transparency, there's no previous existence, there isn't even now. But really an attempt to justify when you change your mind is something worse than when you represent at least your opinion the whole time, this is amazing indeed. 133
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22396	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, this is not the third correction but actually the first one in this debate, so here you are, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22397	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I really don't know what the reason for a colleague of Zelenika to part of this club or individuals from this club to speak in such a way, so I don't know if anyone mentioned Mrs. Zelenik in any debate. I don't think so, I don't know if it's in the hallway, so the answers from the hallway are, uh, here, they have to reflect behind the pay phone. Whether we are on the sidelines or not, but I certainly know that taxes, excises and this doesn't have to be part of the European path. If someone thinks that's how you allow European values to be richer citizens in a country, I guess that's the pursuit of this country. But I also know that those who promote European values and those who represent the European Union here are not European values under one roof. They are neither European values nor banning the learning of native language in Republika Srpska. I'm here, I don't know if you were wrong, you said—we got what we were looking for. Here's a stenogram, I'm quoting you, I've heard, so it's still unverified, that you haven't gotten as much as you asked, I'm talking about some people from your party, you've got less but you've accepted to change your mind. You're just, I feel, a toy in some other hands, and it's probably going to be some next period that's ahead of us when it's going to open, so how did it happen? change of mind. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22398	Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22399	I don't understand this suicide mission either, but here's what you should do if a woman wants to. So, I never once told you that you're spinners, and I don't know what to do with me, even though it's the fact that you've changed your mind, but some of your colleagues have told you that. You from the HDZ 1990s if you chose to be a spokesman for the government of the SDA, the HDZ, whoever it is your choice and I do not dispute it for you. But it's really amazing that at least you don't formally participate in power, but you're enjoying the role of someone defending the law. You probably think what Mr. Sadik is saying, that there's probably truth here, but we'll wait for that's not a topic for today. As for 28 April 2014, it is not given the same as this, but it is not near and as you have not read today's material, on which you have been warned by fellow Bećirović, so you have not read it, and then it is pointless to talk about it, because we are not in the same, on the same basis, I read you. So we'll leave it for the second time when you read it will continue on April 28, 2014 and when you read it and when you inform yourself about it, inform yourself on how many highways there are in the south of our country, when it's done and who made it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22400	Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go, counsel. 134
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22401	Thank you again to the Honorable Chairman. So I'm going to say a few words about the measure of this law, knowing in advance, is that, that I won't be able to change the opinion of colleagues who, who voted in favour of an emergency procedure and who will vote in favour of this legal solution, but here I need to honestly and truly state a few facts that are my view when it comes to this legal solution. So, this Law confirms the earlier, previously said the thesis that today's Bosnian-Herzegovina ruling policy has produced an unfair society, an inequality society, a society without solidarity, a society where the most endangered citizens who are nobody's concern, and the essence of politics is that citizens are concerned that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned about ruling policies. However, we today have this state of injustice, inequality, insolidity and this legal solution, because it will also produce a chain reaction to the collection, will make it difficult for citizens to live, and it will retain pensions, it will keep salaries at the level at which they are today, or it will keep care in that social area. What is important to point out and I will do it now is, if you succeed in adopting these legal projects to citizens, you will know by what time to falsify the incompetence and the inadequacy of entity governments that are the necessary funds of the International Monetary Fund to patch up budget gaps and that is the cruel truth that no one can escape from and the basic reason why this Law is adopted and are those funds from the IMF to save the government in Republika Srpska, to try to stabilise the government in the Federation of BiH. But the adoption of this Act will pay citizens and the illegal appetites of parties who see in excises new prey, especially pre-election, it is true. Why am I pointing this out as a special problem at this point? The adoption of these laws or the Excise Act requires a certain period of time to provide projects and provide tender procedures, so you will not be able to enter into the investment within a year, and the funds will, in my opinion, be used to secure the 2018 elections and can safely or successfully continue what you are doing after 2018. And what hurts me the most is that you will help the interests of the international community that aims to secure the placement of the new credit funds of its financial institutions. This is what hurts me and I can't possibly forgive you for entering this story, that you are helping these creators of this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina to invest their funds and to extract funds from the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The basis of this and the additional increase in fuel prices as we know that the dung in the retail price of 2 KM participates with 1 mark through excises, tolls, customs and VAT is very questionable, meaning the founding of a new... improvement. It's often been said these days that it's not going to increase the price, it's not going to increase the excise toll, but it's forgotten to tell people that at that very price of one liter of fuel is also the toll, so it's going to have to increase the fuel price to extract that part of the toll, maybe it's just the difference in that part, if it's aimed at entities, that we're going to have some transparent flow in this story. As for the European road that is often talked about these days, here I am again, although I have not just received a reply from the Council of Ministers, I ask if and would like to hear back from me – whether the increase Excise on biofuels and biothesis violates the Eurapian Directive 2009/28/EC [[the speaker is warned on time]] that this is how the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina is threatened? [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you. 135
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22402	Representative Damir Bećirović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22403	... means, in accordance with the Treaty establishing the Energy Community of the Council of Ministers, on 18 October 2012, adopted a Decision implementing Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of energy use for.... establishing for BiH a binding target of 40% of the share of renewable energy sources in final energy consumption and the participation of renewable energy in transport of 10% to 2020. [[Disable microphone]] So, instead of carrying out our obligations and even subsidizing the consumption of renewable energy here, I don't know again who, whether the Council of Ministers or the House of Peoples who is the Proposer, uh, introduces a new commitment and new violence and biofuels. Also, so it won't be forgotten, even though here it is even a little bit more, let's remind ourselves of some facts. The World Bank, two years ago, suggested no new burdens were imposed due to an increase in competitiveness in the economy. Of course, we're getting new loads and it's evident that we're getting them from the EBRD's instructions. What is important to highlight also, since there is always talk of some infrastructure swing, construction, infrastructure swing of road construction, the provision of funds that already exist and their activation, means other than the defined Corridor 5C, a vague strategy is in general construction and network of highways and roads, because there is no spatial-planning, nor an idea documentation for traffic. So, here we're talking in fairy tales in the very explanation or whatever we're saying we're going to build something, even though we're not talking about expropriation right now, about the soil, the property-legal relations on the lines on which we're supposed to be building, so all of this is all about trying to increase the pressure on citizens is nothing more than providing collateral for international financial institutions. Because simply entity companies are so robbed, that they are no longer able to make up, take out on their dues loans, we heard from that analysis when we know that nearly 3 billion KMs have been collected on the basis of tolls from 2006 to 2016, a billion and something has been transferred to the Federation of BiH, 290 million KM has disappeared, so 300 million has disappeared recently. And now to those same people and to that same one, so to people who are then, they make years of power, you're giving new funds and a new possibility of borrowing. What you're not talking about, too, and what you're trying to avoid, we know, for example. that there is a decision that, the distribution takes place at a percentage of 39% for Republika Srpska, 2% for the Brcko District, 59% for the Federation of BiH. Niko one speaks from the Federation, I see a colleague of the HDZ, the SDA, the SBB, is silent, for example, that the fuel consumption in Republika Srpska is up to 30% maximum, while withdrawing 39% of the funds. What is problematic about this Law is that income is distributed, as I said, from road to tolls to be made in accordance with the Decision on the temporary distribution of tolls to highways by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority in 24.11.2009, and on the basis of Article 2 (2) of the Act on Excises in BiH and Article 14 paragraph (3) of the Law on the Indirect Taxation System in BiH, which states that the distribution of revenue from tolls is done according to the methodology prescribed by the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation of BiH by a special act. The proposed amendments, meaning, which we have received, whether from the Council of Ministers or from the House of Peoples, and the additions to this Act on Excises and the Law on Payments in the Single Account and the distribution of revenue, are the obligation to adopt the methodology for the distribution of revenue from tolls of the Excise Act into the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue. What the existing decision also says about the distribution of revenue from tolls and methodology adopted under the Excise Act, not the Single Account Payments Act and the distribution of revenue when this Law is adopted, it will cease to exist. So you won't have the opportunity to distribute road resources, for other roads, as you say. So, there will be a legal vacuum in the sense that the Directorate for indirect taxation will charge and collect revenues of 136 tolls for highways, roads and transfer them to sub-account, but their distribution to users and expenditure for... purposes will not be possible until the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority makes a new decision on the distribution of revenue from tolls, this time on the basis of the Law on Payments to the Single Account and the distribution of incomes. So you'll have a problem especially for the Federation, because you won't have that level of resources you need to get from fuel consumption. In entities, you will have more money on the part where you can pay without a decision, which is the revenue from the toll that goes for the construction of highways, while for other roads, so it will not be possible and a new decision will have to be made by a new methodology, which I do not believe you will succeed in this mandate safely. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22404	Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22405	Thank you very much. I will say a few sentences since this thesis, which we hear today and every day, is that the increase in excise duty on fuel is equal to the European route of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is certainly not true. Such a story can only drink water in Bosnia and Herzegovina or lie to ourselves that it is. They agree that some taxes are important for the construction of road infrastructure, the only corridor, the European Corridor is Corridor 5C, which is in construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Federation has built about 100km of this Corridor, Republika Srpska is nothing yet when it comes to this European corridor, but we also know that they built about 70km of highways in the previous term, until the Federation of BiH has done nothing. We know he's raised a lot of money on excises and tolls so far, that's data from the I.D. on indirect taxation at about 8 billion. They calculated some how much money was to be spent directly on building road infrastructure. The kilometers and money paid in such a way are in great proportion and do not match the amount of money paid to what we currently have as a new infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What would be good to know here today, but since we don't know who the legislator is, and that's already someone asked, what time period is this law going to apply, is it a tax increase until the day of Kyoto, or is it an increase in taxes or excise duty until we build Corridor 5C? But we also all know that we don't have a plan to build Corridor 5C, it has some kind of project documentation, but the construction plan for Corridor 5C doesn't have any. In the way we build roads and how we build this European corridor, I am sure that in the next period we will be a closed country, because we are building roads where we have no bridges and we are building roads that are exactly the opposite of what would be the link to the existing European corridor. Why do we do that? So to give up that logic, but to apply logic, give what these national leaders say. So we have some beginnings from the sea, some through the middle of Bosnia and Herzegovina, mostly nothing is connected, and when the Corridor will be connected to some of the European corridors, therefore, that is a big question. What's interesting, and it's important or it's related to this Agenda, which we talk about a lot, is why there wasn't so much pressure or agreement to adopt a rural development strategy where Bosnia and Herzegovina loses huge money, it doesn't interest anyone, not even Vigemarka, it doesn't interest him at all, it doesn't matter to him at all. Why, as a commitment by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the laws of those who regulate these European regulations are not adopted, and these laws are from a range of electricity and gas, and Bosnia and Herzegovina is losing huge money. So no one's talking about it, and here All the bells are talking about how the ones who vote one way or another are bringing Bosnia and Herzegovina into some kind of state to lose this or that money. [[the speaker is warned on time]] So, it's, uh, not to say, nonsense but mostly something that I don't get it. [[The speaker is 137 warned on time]] What is certain is that those who have negotiated should have at least with Dodik, who is a type of negotiator, suggested that these two things be adopted and not given him what only he wanted, the same as in that... when this part was adopted what they called co-ordination, but it turned out to be now an obstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina's development. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22406	Representative Borislav Bojić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22407	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. So this is the second day we're discussing this important issue and it's certain that this question deserves this kind of attention, given that we've been discussing it for two days. What represents a dilemma for me when it comes to fuel prices, which is how fuel prices are going to reflect on the real sector, real economy, which is, of course, where I include the issue of agriculture. Our businesses can objectively compete with the difficulty of competing with competitors who, at the moment when the products we have on our premises are really, with great effort, manage to survive in the field of real economy at all. By increasing the price of energy, which is called fuel, it will further affect that our businessmen will indeed be in serious trouble when it comes to production, and I believe that there will also be redundancies of workers and many other consequences coming directly from the purchase of fuel prices. You all know that the tax burdens in the economy are such that we have taxes and contributions far greater than the environment, that such a type of tax burdens and contributions businesses are in serious trouble. Therefore, I believe that this kind, therefore, is a process that puts businessmen and farmers in a very difficult position. What is really going to happen to agriculture that objectively last year had serious droughts and now we're going to increase their fuel price, we didn't predict at all any of the options that will, either through the blue diesel or in any other way, help farmers to get those damages from droughts, of course, we've had early and floods and a lot of things, and all of this will put us in a really difficult position, so we'll practically, as I said at the beginning, increase the prices of all products. So, and receiving here in both Republika Srpska and the Federation in general, in Brcko District, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a burden that these additional burdens will burden the home budget of every household that is practically very hard to deal with, will increase the price and electricity, will increase the price of bread, will increase the price of vegetables, fruits and all that objectively, of course, will increase the price and clothing, the shoes, all of which together comes from the price of energy that participates as one of those elements that makes the new product. I am fully convinced that our businessmen will be in serious trouble after this decision. It seems to me that the message to all the citizens here, as I said, will be for New Year's Eve will see when they arrive at the gas station and when they pour the fuel tank into what it looks like. I have to tell you that many of us sitting here when we're pouring a tank of fuel in for 100 marks, citizens pour 10 marks of convertable fuel, and I have to tell you that they have serious problems when it comes to providing the means for life at all. That is why I believe that this kind of approach is also not good for the simple reason why we are not allowed to ask the promoter, firstly we are prevented from acting amendmently on this Law itself, after all we do not know who the Proposer is, we have confused everything that relates to the procedure and all together be sure to leave significant consequences when it comes to the functioning of this Parliament, and, of course, when it comes to the burdens that we will have, I repeat once again, both business and out of business. If these activities are done as they have so far, especially when 138 are about expropriation, land disposal, where the land price on some parts of the highways has been built three times higher than others, it is mainly unfair, it is not, after all, something that anyone could say hello to, and we in Republika Srpska have already talked about this last time, where you have at the same length of time to have a purchase of agricultural land three times more than the other route that has the same length, and you have a completely different approach when it comes to the price itself. Next, highway availability. And the question is, where are the highways actually going to be built? Here's a question: is it from these means, and I don't know who to ask when I don't know who the proposer is, and in which direction will the highways be built, will it be the way I said and what I expect, and that is that from New Town to Prijedor via Banja Luka, Doboj, Brcko and Bijeljina we will be connected to Belgrade? That's what I expect. With no proposings, it is difficult to ask the question really where and where highways will be built, given that serious funds are being allocated and that citizens of the Republika Srpska and the Federation, or Brcko District, will pay for the construction of these highways. Unfortunately, we don't have a proposing, since we won't be able to get answers, so I assure you it's better not to make such a decision, because it will be more harmful to Bosnia and Herzegovina than useful. After all, when we raise the standard and be at least about the standard of citizens European Union [[the speaker is warned on time]] We can go with this kind of load. [[the speaker is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22408	Representative Nenad Lalić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22409	The Honorable Chairman, here I will present some information that I have collected, which will in some way justify my suspicion that the next funds will be adequately spent on the roads. This checkup, of course, is sumar, I didn't split this up on the road, highways but globally as much as it got together. So, so far, 20 billion marks have been collected for VAT. If we were to share it if it was 50 million kilometers of highway, I'm talking about the highway, it's about 400 kilometers of highway. Excises without this year have collected 8 billion marks so far. Since the registration of a vehicle of more than 2 billion, only in 2016 is 1.500,000 vehicles imported, so you take the average that's 100 - 120 marks, because some vehicles are more expensive, some cheaper, you'll see that it's a pool of 2.5 billion. Out of the municipality's budget of more than 3 billion, the entity's budget of more than 2.5 billion, from the canton budget, also about 2.5 billion. Credit liabilities of about a billion, donor grants, such as USAID, Malaysian government, the Dutch government, the German government, the Swedish government, etc. More than 2 billion, so when you add it up, you'll see that it's a 20 billion circus somewhere. If we say that something was built as an egg, it was normally funded by Sweden, Brcko, Malaysia, USAID, bridges built and all known, so we don't see where these funds were spent and hence our legitimate suspicions and fears that these collected funds will also be spent on purpose and that the people won't see a space large of these collected pairs, no new roads, no asphalt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22410	Representative Mensura Beganović, debate. Here you go, MPs. 139
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22411	I thank the chairman. I don't know what to start with when it comes to this increase in excise duty, so let's say, from this article 45a. Paragraph (2) where it states that the taxpayers and other persons involved in the transport of biofuels and biotechnology and oil derivatives will collect the stocks identified by the list, the lists referred to in the item (1) of this article, the calculation of excise duty and toll according to the provisions of this Act, and that, within 10 days, I repeat, from the date of the list in the position (1) of this Member, the payment of the required invoices shall be made to the difference between the invoice and the excise duty already paid or the difference between the invoices and the toll already paid. Come on, here, we're pushing our hands into the pocket of citizens, but we're pushing our hand into the pocket of those who live from, who in their activities use this type of fuel that's been given an increase in excise duty from those who will have to pay in 10 days what by increasing excise duties is their new financial burden. We are truly showing an incredible empathy, but in a negative sense, to recognize sarcasm in this case, to those who are fighting for every penny to earn and then will transfer this to the burden of workers, I don't know who else they would transfer to, so that they will indirectly re-burden the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This explanation that you have given with the change of excise duties in the Law on the increase of excise duties and excise duties or tolls, whatever you call it, or toll, is something that really sounds amazing and I don't know to what level you've developed this thinking that this price increase will ultimately contribute to increasing birth in Bosnia and Herzegovina through several degrees of action. When we look at today's situation the way it was in this House that showed how much it was, let's say, legal uncertainty of the prostitutors, so you can imagine the legal uncertainty of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina when everyone interprets the law in the way it suits him. Where will our young people end up? All across the line as soon and as quickly as possible and therefore need good roads to cross the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I find it really strange that someone to this level explains in a way that is unacceptable, illogical, and I don't know who they imagine they have on, for their conversants, I can't say, but to say so harshly, but this really offends common sense. The Action Plan for the Implementation of the Reform Agenda, which sets out the obligations, is whether or not, let's say the activity of increasing excise duties, is just one of the conditions that we, I don't know, I don't know that we had in the Action Plan, but you took it over in the negotiations with the IMF, you accepted it along with the other conditions that we didn't meet, so probably now these excises will defuse all the other obstacles that lie between this loan that the IMF is waving at us in front of our noses. I have today had the opportunity to discuss another loan, where I have stressed that we have not fulfilled the obligations imposed on us under this loan, but we have knowingly brought out the half-truth or to tell the truth or lie, so that the same way our hand will spin when we have to adopt the Law on the bankruptcy of the Federation of BiH Parliament, because it will be frozen funds, so there will be a whole series of in-laws who will say the Federation is losing funds for these and those reasons that have not been adopted, no matter how contrary to what they should be to bankruptcy laws when it comes to the fate of workers who are left without any rights when it comes to business, and finally the right to collect their salaries and contributions and social security. And the third thing that would be referred to at this point is about this particular situation that we biofuels, biodiesel and what our farmers are using, where they've so far been relieved, we're burdening ourselves with additional excise duties, so we collect them, we collect them, and we bring them into an extra difficult situation, and in addition to what we promise farmers that 140 will be paid to any of these entities, so somewhere it's not done at some level, somewhere it's not done, we've now imposed another cost on them on their backs, so we don't know how they're going to relate to those... excuse, who support the adoption of these excises. I will not mention our obligations to the Energy Community which, which my colleagues have already explained. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22412	Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22413	The Proposer of the Law, whoever he may be, recommends in his explanation that this is one of the terms of the Reform Agenda and that this is something that came from the Action Plan, which was followed by the Reform Agenda. And here I remind you that besides this, it didn't have to go exactly with the excises and this set of laws, the Reform Agenda and the Action Plan has something called public administration reform, so something could be done on that field and plan. However, nothing has been done because where those who are going to be touched must be behind those voting booths, those in the voting booths to take pictures, so that the party heads send that they voted for them, that the poor don't touch them from work, and that's kind of understandable in this misery, and we'll still be poorer after the adoption of this law. Of course, there is also that Action Plan mentions the administration of justice, i.e. the establishment of the rule of law, not in this field, nor in this field of public administration's reform, but it was done by an urgent procedure, because it is worth adopting for the interests of the international community and individual parties, so they say let's go with the excise duties and let's, they say in their explanation, improve the standard of citizens and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know if there's been a cake served or not, and then, he says, how are we going to write this argument, and since it's just in our past sessions or let's say in 2017 it was significant... I apologize if you could remind your colleagues. _________(?) Maja [[no microphone turned on]] any significant talk about emigration, about increasing birth rate, about the demographic picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina, about the alarming state when we talk about the demographic picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then those experts who were gathered around the promoter came up with an idea.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22415	I'm asking the representatives to be quiet in the hall. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22416	Let's sit down and write down that these excise duties could also increase the birth rate in Bosnia and Herzegovina, since there are some parliamentary issues coming in, and we have no answer, there will be some homes for the elderly, there will be some kindergartens, and so are these experts, mostly men, because men run politics in Bosnia and Herzegovina, have thrown something, and, of course, without reason, 141 without a jack of budgeting, without any statistics. And here I will remind this novice or those novices that 51% of women live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the total number of unemployed women, is 60%, according to the latest census in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, if you're already saying that you're going to improve the standard and that there's going to be additional employment based on this set of excise laws, it's going to be but it's going to be men. So, women will return to the Stone Age with this Law, because those due to a bad standard and yet worse standard when these excises get back into the Stone Age, and you're probably going to say, so what else are they going to do, men will go to work, come back tired, no going out, no fuel, no car, there's not going to be a car, there and there's going to be a sidewalk in front of the presidency, so maybe people from bored will work on birth. There'll probably be no electricity, so we'll remember that there was some Tesla, etc. It offends our wife's intelligence. And I must point out that it's very startling that the chair of the Committee on Gender Equality and someone who's been to some seminars when it comes to jender budgeting all the time was unable to call a session, so that we too at that session
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22417	Please, MPs, please don't interfere with agents who have a word. Here you go. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22418	Let's talk about how this set of laws will reflect on women and, in general, on gender budgeting, or gender equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then you say, there will be an increase in talent. Why should someone in Bosnia and Herzegovina give birth to you children, you are all, or are mostly in late years, grandchildren who are likely to have you because you or you are already going to study well outside and in some more developed countries where in the 21st century or century you will not live stone age, and why would we give birth to this newborn child, according to some economic experts' accounts, to be in charge of 3.5 thousand KM without this newborn going to the bank and raising loans. He says – kindergartens will be built. Where will kindergartens be built, in which places, where you will link it, and far away, these roads and some far away - Provulsion? - Yes. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Please don't take the word away from me now, because I've been trying all this time to get word from the MPs and I couldn't talk and I'm going to ask you for the minute they took away from me, because I was standing here waiting for you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22419	Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22420	Also, you're saying that some homes of health or something, so I'm asking a question -- what health homes are, are you going to make women available and health homes connecting that transport infrastructure, so mammographs, CTs, MRAs will be available to them? All of this interests me and I need, therefore, one general analysis and statistics and all of this project that requires this which you should be behind, because you're all saying that it will exist when the excises are adopted and you start building. And I see your relationship today, I'm already on the second day, or yesterday Mr. Vigemark gathered a couple of women from political parties. and a couple from the NGO sector, so they got together a little bit to talk, of course, about improving women's status whether in political parties or in society [[the speaker is warned on time]] to the end of the reading, and I wonder why Mr. Vigemark didn't open up here with women to talk about how the excises would reflect on women. [[the speaker is warned on time]] And, of course, it's stoken that none of the NGOs have been able to open this issue, to see what impact the excises will have on the lives of women in Bosnia 142 and Herzegovina, and in order to open it when they'll be there somewhere from Vigemarka while his mandate is probably still...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22421	I'm warning you, you're ending it. Maja
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22422	To sew up some grant to get, is to stay and talk about how to improve as many women in politics as possible, and we see that on real topics, which is the impact of excise on women's lives, no one talks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22423	Representative jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22424	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I must further explain the inapplicability of Article 35 as proposed by this Law. In Perspective
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22425	I'm warning the MP, you've applied to the Rules of Procedure for correction of the wrong assumption.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22426	No, the correction of the wrong assumption is yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22427	Refer to the Rules of Procedure. Whose fault are you correcting?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22428	I'm supplementing Mr. Magazinović when he explained the inapplicability of article 35, so I have to give the necessary explanations so that some things don't get unsaid. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22429	Are you correcting the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22430	Yeah, yeah, wrong quote, wrong quote, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22431	You're correcting. Then say you're correcting Mr. Saša Magazinović guilty allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22432	So we have the right and give an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22433	You don't, this is where you refer to the correction of the wrong quote. 143
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22434	There is, there is, it says in the Rules of Procedure, but here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22435	Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22436	All right, let's go. Thus, in point (a) of point (2) – 0,15 KM per litre of product, i.e. a kilogram of liquid oil gas for roads, which means highways, fast roads, highways, regional roads, local roads, traffic in the settlement and unclassified roads. So, for all the roads, so there's no dilemma, so that's for all the roads, this is very important for the promoter to know what he suggested. Under b) – 0.25 KM per litre of product, i.e. a kilo of liquid oil gas for the construction of highways and for the construction and reconstruction of other roads, and other roads are: highways, fast roads, highways, regional roads, local roads, roads and unclassified roads. So, the promoter completely ignored the definition of the road, which is the road, and Mr. Magazinović gave those definitions, so I just want to explain it one more time and further strengthen it this way. So, this member is completely pointless, the proposer should have done the following. It was supposed to read a point (a) like this – 0,20 KM per litre of product, i.e. a kilogram of liquid oil gas for roads. [[the speaker is warned on time]] Excepting highways if he wanted to achieve what
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22437	I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22438	in Article 35, the words ‘Article 35’ are I under b) – 0,20 KM per litre of product, i.e. a kilogram of liquid oil gas for the extraction of highways, point. And then that would be a single and well-accounted member. This way, this is completely confusing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22439	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22440	And this can't be applied, gentlemen, if you adopt this, you won't be able to apply what you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22441	Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22442	Okay, here I am correcting my colleague Maja Gasal's wrong quote, who said it was all a problem. It is not all the problems that relate to the adoption of a set of excise laws, so I would quote the president of one of the ruling parties who also warned us of certain 144 problems that relate to the adoption of these laws and say – if excise duties are adopted they will collect all products and they will come to inflation, the older generations know what that means. Moreover, clearly from experience, key contractors will be Turkish Čengiz and similar. They will export hundreds of millions of KM of money from BiH to which we will be in debt, and later some of the floor will return to cash for the SDA election campaign, as they did in earlier years. That's why the SBB won't support the adoption of excise duties. I'd just like to warn you of these problems so they don't stay undetected simply.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22443	Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22444	My replica or correction of the wrong allegation refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Emrić, who spoke about Article 35(2), whether, (1) and (2), the new member is 35. Exactly that it seems confusing, I think it is a solution and that we are asking here for the original text that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has, or probably has, Mr Vigemark, in English. I think that's where the translation error occurred, when those who threw it here translated it from the sky, didn't translate in the right way, and that's the way it was done.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22445	jasmin Emrić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22446	I thank my colleague Aleksandra, but I want to say that I don't know if it's a translation error, but this member is inadmissible, this is total confusion. So at two points, you're supposed to double-finance the same facilities and roads and highways. So how are you going to make the distribution of those funds when you have double funding of the same objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22447	Thank you. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. Senad Šepić, on this point, is deprived of the right to further debate. I conclude, Sadik Ahmetović, a correction to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22448	I mean... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22449	Please, you got the word for correcting the wrong quote and stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22450	Well, don't take it away, I think we'll get into a situation where we'll lose people who can talk. So, you see, you keep SDA quiet, you keep SNSD quiet, and you don't listen to anyone, 145 Your only task is to end this and call Vigemarka and take a pillow... I mean, and so, what my colleague Emrić was saying, does it make sense for anyone to explain or is he the only one, no, I don't think I can understand that no one, no one, is looking back at anything. So, I have the impression that it's important to you, that what many have told me, that you make nice deals with banks across Europe, that all these tenders are, are international, but they don't fall under our public procurement regimes and that you prescribe a procedure where you will end five other domestic companies completely so that I can't do anything as it has been lately. It's true... facts. So, that's, here's if, if that's the policy you represent and run, so should you, and those of you who probably don't listen to us now, but I believe that the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina will find out who you're doing it to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22451	Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22452	So I think counterpart Ahmetović is wrong, I want to correct his guilty allegations that after this he will refer to Vigemark. I think as far as Vigemarka is concerned, he's done his job, so there's no reason for anyone to refer to him, I think he'll refer to the party heads, especially those who used to spend some of their money on the campaign. Now they won't have to spend their money, they'll spend their national money, and it's much more important for them to be informed this early in the morning that they're fine with this day, than for Mr. Vigemark to be informed. Therefore, counterpart Ahmetović, not true, means that someone will inform representatives of the international community here, they were sure they were on a team of people, otherwise if they weren't sure they wouldn't have put it together in this way as it was drawn up. This is more about what I was talking about when I was talking about this, and that's the transformation, so the funds for the campaign from personal to people's money, or from the party's own bosses, to the money that will be collected from voters. And here we have one of those circles, as you have a water cycle in nature, that we've all learned, so it's raining, it's evaporating, it's creating water steam, it's making a cloud and it's raining again, so here we have some kind of circulation, so, steam in the same way. So, some of them invest in roads, they take people into roads, of course after that they build roads, the people vote for them, they take back from the people, they return roads, and that's how it spins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22453	Representative, i.e. Deputy Šefik Džaferović, debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22454	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the chairman and ministers of the BiH Council of Ministers' Finance, this morning when I was reporting on the agenda or yesterday morning did I express my position on what I think about this set of laws, and I didn't listen today, and I didn't hear anything yesterday, nor did I hear anything that could seriously rock my opinion and I think we should adopt these laws. I propose that after the debate has ended on these three points, so on a set of excise laws, Dom make a decision to proceed immediately after the debate on the laws has ended, and that after the vote, the session is suspended and continues tomorrow. Thank you. 146
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22455	Thank you. Salko Sokolović, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22456	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Correction of the wrong quote to Mr. Novaković, because he forgot to say that only in Bosnia and Herzegovina are the citizens of the city's roads and paying for their use, let that last one remain here, there is no money left in this world to make, and then they take the money you're driving, only in Bosnia with this power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-12-14-1.u22457	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on these points of the agenda on the 3rd, 4th and 5th. This debate has resulted in several proposals for conclusions, among other things the proposal to conclude the distinguished representative Diana Zelenika. But before that, we have a proposal from Šefik Džaferović to vote on these points after this debate and to suspend the session afterwards. Here I have no right to decide on this and I am giving the House a statement of the proposal by Šefik Džaferović. So, let's make it clear that we're voting now after the debate on points 3 and 4 and 5 and after that we interrupt the session. Please make a statement. Of the 42 present – for 22, against 19, abstention 1. I konstatirati that there is a general and entity majority, and that we have adopted a proposal from MP Šefik Džaferović that we are now voting on points 3, 4 and 5 and that after that we interrupt the session. We now have a proposal for the conclusion of the House of Representative Diana Zelenika – the means provided by the adoption of the Excise Act will be used for the simultaneous and even construction of roads from the south to the north, as well as from the east to the west of the country, with special responsibility for the implementation of this conclusion to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I'd like to make a statement about Diana Zelenika's proposal for a conclusion. Of the 42 present – for 22, against 19, 1 abstention. I find that there is a general and entity majority, and that we have adopted the proposal for the conclusion of Commissioner Diana Zelenika. And now I suggest we make a statement on points 3, 4 and 5. So I ask you to state first on point 3 o, we are now declaring ourselves on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Act No: 01,02-02-1-2808/17 of 11.12.2017. 147 Please make a statement. Of the 42 present – for 22, against 20, there are no abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Law on Excise Taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, means Law No 01,02-02-1-2808/17 of 11.12.2017. We move on to a statement on point 4, which is, please, to declare the Payments Act to the Single Account and the distribution of income, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2809/17 of 11.12.2017. Please make a statement. Of the 42 present – for 22, against 20, there are no abstentions. I agree that there is a general and entity majority, and that we have adopted the Law on Payments to the Single Account of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No 01,02-02-1-2809/17 of 11.12.2017. We move to a statement on point 5. This is the Law on a system of indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 01.02-02-1-2810/17 of 11.12.2017. Please make a statement. Of the 42 present – for 22, against 20, there are no abstentions. I find that there is a general and entity majority, and that we have adopted the Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law No 01,02-02-1-2810/17 of 11.12.2017. After we have spoken about points 3, 4 and 5, in accordance with the Conclusion, we will continue the session at 10:00 today. Session aborted 4:13 a.m.
