ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18300	Please sit down and take your seats. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 48th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, I welcome all guests present. BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak and Civilian Minister Adil Osmanović and Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Vojin Mijatović provided information on the inability to attend the session due to official travel. Following the announcement of BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Vjekoslav Bevanda on behalf of the ministry, Deputy Finance and Treasury Minister Mirsad Žuga will attend the session. The absence was justified by representatives Dušanka Majkić and Nikola Špirić. According to the service information, 24 representatives are present at this time. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving an answer, and before that a single notice, I would ask you to keep an eye on it, I think it would be correct if we weren't working after 7:00 today, and here I have a proposal from a colleague and I think it's quite, uh, okay, to work until 7:00, so until we get there, we'll continue, uh, next time we respect everything that we have here in Parliament. Thank you very much, so we'll be working until 7:00, so as far as we're done. I now give my word to Honorary Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18301	...was intended for the Minister of Civil Affairs, but I don't see him present here. Here, I don't already have, another session is that, uh, the opportunity to ask a question, but here I can't ask for his absence. I think it's really very, very uncomfortable, it doesn't matter, this question is current when I ask him and in a month I won't lose to the actuality, but how can I ask oral questions unless they're present...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18302	We can, Mr. Đonlagić. I'm sorry to interrupt. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18303	Well, here, I'd like to miss you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18304	So let the services record it, we'll write a letter, it's no problem for us, we write every time whatever letter you ask us to write. So every MP when he points out a complaint, he is described and signed and sent from here to the one to whom he is directed. The word has a distinguished representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18305	I thank the chairman. Here I will be brief, so I'm only interested in when we can expect in Parliament a law on transparency of ownership over the media, since this is our European obligation and that we have been honored in the 2015 Progress Report, and we have asked one such law of the Council of Ministers by adopting a conclusion here on 27 November 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18306	Thank you very much. The Council of Ministers whether, therefore, Mr. Jusko is the Minister of Transport and Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18307	Dear chairmans and deputies, distinguished MPs and MPs, media representatives. Councilwoman, thank you for asking. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina has defined that Bosnia and Herzegovina must bring legislation in the field of communication and media with the European Union's regulatory framework in the fields of electronic communications and electronic media. In the plan since 2017, the Ministry of Communications and Transport has formed a Working Group that works on two laws that are closely connected, which is the draft law on electronic media, the draft law on electronic communications. First they started working with the draft e-communication law and the following activities were carried out,... public consultations were held for 40 days,... an expert mission, a statement from the Directorate for European Integration has been obtained, and an opinion by the BiH Council of Ministers has been obtained, after which the draft law will be submitted to the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss and determine the law. When it comes to the draft law on electronic media covering four areas – audio-visual and media services, radio media services, media ownership transparency and the concentration of ownership of media, meanwhile representatives of the ministry held consultation meetings with representatives of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, the European Commission agreed that the draft law should go into procedure by the end of the fourth quarter. I had the opportunity to talk to the representatives of this Working Group, it was a large material and in one law and another, I asked – why this deadline was not respected, I was told, in the end they made a decision together that any haste in that period would only lead to simply skipping some things and that this Law would not be done in quality, nor would this Draft be quality, but they told me that in the next two months they could complete the draft and deliver it to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18308	Thank you. A comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18309	I thank you, Minister. I really hope that in the next two, three months we will get this law. It is essential that it be a quality legal solution. Less important are the deadlines in which we will get it, and because, especially since it is necessary in this country to regulate the transparency of ownership of the media, that we know who is coming here, who is behind which media house and whose interests it protects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18310	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18311	The Honorable Chairman. For the third time in less than three years in this term, I have asked this question, and it concerns the fact that the competent state authorities have not yet concluded a contract with the Islamic Community as they have done with the Catholic Church and the Serbian Orthodox Church. It is clear that this is one position of legal inequality and that this is not a good message at all. This has not even happened in socialism, this former socialist system has not been in favor of any religious worldview but in all its constitutions, both federal and republican, and in '46, and '63, and '74. and in two lex specialis laws on religious communities from '53. And '76. always at least put all religious communities in the same legal position. We don't have that in Bosnia and Herzegovina today. I have been asking for three years how it is possible that we are witnessing such a situation and can finally answer the question – who is blocking it and why is blocking it, because these are very sensitive issues, it cannot be the subject of some political trade. So, here's the question I once again asked the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Can we get a precise answer here in Parliament – who is blocking it and why is blocking it, what can we possibly do to finally eliminate this legal inequality?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18312	Thank you. Minister of Human Rights, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18313	I would like to thank Ambassador Bećirović for asking the question. It is true that I have already answered this question and that my last answer was that the Council's 4th Minister's Treaty was forwarded to the BiH presidency in a further procedure. Yesterday, in preparation for the answer to your question, we contacted the BiH presidency. According to information from the BiH presidency, the text of the Basic Treaty with the Islamic Community in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been agreed with remarks made by a BiH presidency member Mr Mladen Ivanić, and the text of the Basic Treaty with observations given by a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Dragan Čović, has been agreed. According to information received from the presidency, I am expressing an optimistic view that this Treaty will be held very soon at the BiH presidency session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18314	Thank you. A comment? Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18315	This is already, therefore, an incomplete third year as the optimism is expressed that it will be resolved, unfortunately I do not see at this point reason for optimism. It might be good for the BiH Council of Ministers, if Parliament's support is also needed in this regard, to influence the BiH presidency or to be fair about this response between the ranks is already on the horizon and who are responsible for this situation, to finally resolve that matter. Obviously, then, at least one of the three Bureau members is making obstructions and blockades, at least one. Therefore, here, today's message to the BiH Presidency – there is no need for this country to create this kind of legal inequality, there must be one principle, there must be a law from 2004, this thing must be made in principle to be equal for all religious communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18316	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18317	I thank the chairman. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, probably Minister Šarović, should not be explained too much because we know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is losing huge funds from the IPA funds because of the lack of a state strategy for agriculture. We recently, as representatives of state and state-level deputies, colleagues from the SDA, SBB, SNSD, SDP and I from the DF attended a public forum organised by the Centre of Civil Initiatives where citizens and citizens have the opportunity to directly ask us as their representatives and representatives, and there are indeed many people who are asking themselves and we did not know the answer, to say why Bosnia and Herzegovina still does not have a state strategy for agriculture, where they have even expressed their willingness to address you as a Council of Ministers, or you as a resort minister with some petition, with some letter, because they cannot survive in this way. Our politics or what we have on the agenda doesn't lead to solving their problem I ask you for a concrete answer, so not that you are in the procedure and what you sometimes say in your answers, from when to when, which deadlines are fulfilled or not, but why we don't, which are reasons so that we as representatives of citizens and citizens know how to respond to our... 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18318	Thank you very much. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18319	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, MPs, MPs, fellow ministers. The strategic document or the Rural Development Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been trying to adopt itself in Bosnia and Herzegovina since 2010, but there has been no political agreement on this issue, but as a resolution minister in 2013 I have made a decision on the entry, i.e. the Decision on the establishment of the Working Group and the development of the Strategic Rural Development Plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but nothing has been done until 2015, and 2016 in particular in 2016. Meanwhile, the ministry has reached agreement within the country with the country's resolute agriculture ministers in Republika Srpska and the Federation. The ministry has provided financial and technical assistance and from domestic and European experts, meanwhile, I have also formed an Interresor Working Group and several working groups specialising in specific areas and Bosnia and Herzegovina's Strategic Rural Development Plan is working intensively. We have currently drawn up a preview of this document which is currently under discussion and debate. Our expectations are that in two and a half months we will refer this draft to the envisaged adoption procedure. If we maintain this deadline, we have a chance to enter IPA II and thus provide the Bosnia and Herzegovina agricultural sector with about 250 million KM, only through IPA II. There's so many chairmans.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18320	Thank you very much. A comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18321	I thank the esteemed Minister Šarović and I do not doubt his sincere desire and efforts for, in terms of a agricultural strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I am always afraid of these formations of working groups, ad hoc commissions, inter-resor groups, because when there is no solution or political will in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then these working groups are formed that just take time away from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would just like to ask the Registrar, Mr. Šarović, to deliver this response in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18322	Here you have heard, so that won't be a problem. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18323	Thank you. Dear members of the College, colleagues, chairman of the Council of Ministers Dr. Zvizdić, ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Lately, I've had more encounters with people who have asked me how long the injustice will last for those whose communist regime as individuals or indemnities took away six assets. Bosnia and Herzegovina as a country that has opted to enter the transition of a modern and democratic society must resolve the legacy negatively from the period when nationalisation of land, business space and housing has wronged citizens and institutions and endangered their rights. The transition implies that this process has to be carried out sooner or later, but we haven't done anything operational in that sense for 20 years. Meanwhile, experiences of others who have passed the process such as Czechoslovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia say the process has had a strong momentum in the motivation of people to create new values and strengthen the economy. We in Bosnia and Herzegovina today even have the production of regulations that significantly contribute to putting this process at risk as a moral and fair process in such a way that, for example, the construction law has established that the building permit prejudges and the right to ownership. My question to the Honorable Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers – When will we, what will the Council of Ministers plan to do in this respect, and when will we have a restitution law on the table? It's a thing Bosnia and Herzegovina can't get around, it's a thing that we have to have on our way to building a democratic society. And when we can expect that, what in this sense is done, as far as it came or we will be forced as in many other cases that this one strategic law comes into parliamentary procedure outside the executive authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18324	Thank you very much. So the app that needs to measure the time here isn't right, we're going to measure the time to know, don't look at what's counting, now like this, right now, skips out. Answer, Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18325	Thank you very much for asking the question. It is clear that I understand this problem and that it is clearly intruding into all the pores of our society. I have a prepared answer but I wouldn't read it to you right now, because it's going, we're working on some sort of review that's been done so far. Your question was asked – what the Ministry plans to do and the Council of Ministers in the future, and therefore if you agree to be sent in writing for the reason that I have made several meetings with the various organisations that are touching this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18326	Thank you very much. Mr. Škaljuć, comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18327	I agree, it's a serious question and I don't care about speed, it's an important act for me, actually for us as the authorities in the last 20 years hanging on our necks telling us that we're the same as the previous ones, we're saving others and we're not coming back. That's what we need to get rid of.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18328	Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, he will do it another time. Mrs. Hanka Vajzović. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18329	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome all who follow the work of today's session. My question concerns the distribution of funds from the so-called so-called The current reserves of budgetary resources made available to high officials, executives and lower levels, and also at the state level, therefore the question is – on the basis of which regulations or prescribed criteria are laid down by the members of the BiH Presidency, as well as by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its deputies shall choose or determine the beneficiaries of the funds so-called. the current reserves, so the public money that these top officials in the executive government are personally available to? In other words, on the basis of which the criteria and priorities of the appointed executives are to be determined by whom individuals, collectives or institutions, and at which levels of government, state or local, so and state, are to be given at local level, for which needs, for which needs, whether humanitarian, illness, study, when looking at a list in one of the places where everything is assigned, it is indeed to cause doubt, printing of books, restoration of libraries, celebrations of anniversaries, construction works, religious communities, facilities, etc.? Next, according to what priorities, if they exist at all, and how, so who and how does it judge how much public money to donate or give to someone? I say, when you look at a list like this, it's clear that it's temporary, because it's published in "The Official Messenger", it's clear to who it's given to. I don't know. [[Embassy is warned on time]] What's the reason for that donation, but it's 720 thousand KM or six people per 120,000. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18330	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna keep it tight for a while. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18331	Dear Chairman, respected members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, distinguished media and guests, I welcome you all. I will answer this question, of course, only on my behalf because I cannot speak on behalf of my colleagues, especially members of the BiH presidency, each of them should answer that on their own behalf to the question you asked. I just have to say a couple of facts about the first breath that it's not about 120,000 per person. So in last 2016, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and my fellow deputies did not have these funds available at all, they were only members of the BiH presidency. For 2017, members of the BiH presidency, you are right, have 120 thousand marks at their disposal, and the chairman also has two deputies of 60,000 marks. As for me and my cabinet, we personally have, I have a decision on the criteria for the allocation of funds with very clearly prescribed criteria through which all requirements go through a kind of evaluation, after which we decide on the allocation of funds and the same, as you have said, very transparently being published in the Official Journal. As for my amount of funds in the current period of 2017, here is the information, I have made four such decisions in total of 12.5 thousand KM of which 9.5 thousand went to projects in the fields of education, science and research and 3 thousand to help treat a seriously ill girl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18332	Thank you very much. 8 Commentary, Mrs. Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18333	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm a little confused with the answer, that from someone who fits me in my personal name, and I've asked if there are criteria, so two other people from the Council of Ministers have such an opportunity to share funds. But here, everyone can, the portals have published a list, in one place they can see who it was assigned to and who it is, they say, then they don't write the media well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18334	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18335	My question is a sort of continuation of this last session of ours, and it is addressed to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. On 04.06.1993, at the New Travnik approach near Nova Bila, a "Tuzlan Rescue Convoy" was attacked. Seven drivers were killed on that occasion, and four others are still wanted today. The attack itself on a convoy of abuse of participants, robbery of trucks and personal vehicles has also been recorded by Croatian Radio and BBC cameras, however, no one has responded to the judicial institutions in our country 24 years after the crime was committed. I am interested to hear from you – Is there any investigational action under the subject of the "Tuzlan Rescue Convoy" at any level?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18336	Thank you very much. Minister Grubeša, Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18337	Thank you very much. The honourable representative is aware that this issue is not in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. We immediately referred the matter to the authorities who could give us this answer. As soon as we get an answer, we'll send it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18338	Thank you very much. A representative, a comet? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18339	There's no need. There's enough the minister said.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18340	Thank you. 9 Dear Representative Hazim Rančić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18341	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My question goes to the defence minister, Mrs. Pendeš, who I don't see is there, was at the beginning, or these previous first sessions, but there's the deputy, so, here, if he's willing or if he knows I'll be happy with that answer. So, – What did the Ministry of Defense do to determine possible responsibility for the attack on a military person with firearms by four unknown persons during the robbery of the self-service "Amko Komertz" which took place on Bistric on an application near the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18342	Thank you very much. Deputy Defence Minister, Mr. Jerinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18343	I thank the chairman. MPs, MPs, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers. I will give you an answer even though it refers to an earlier period, meaning from 14.03.2015. That night, in the late hours, the criminal group threatened a military officer who was on his duty, security of military facilities, while others, the other two, raided the warehouse and committed a crime, as you said. After the crimes committed by the military police, the Stari City Police Administration was informed, which continued the investigation. The BiH Armed Forces authorities have co-operated throughout the process with judicial authorities, and the public is already aware of the crimes committed during this period and the pursuit and arrest and those members of the group who did so. From the point of view of competence within the defence institutions measures have been taken by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, starting from the very analysis of compliance with operational procedures to the improvement of the system of functioning of the protection of that space. Otherwise, we know that the locality of the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff is due to the proximity of communication and a significant number of vehicles in the standstill, i.e. the parking facilities which are legal and which usurp a certain space, are specific from the security aspect and are carried out continuously in the middle of this, and measures are taken accordingly to protect the members and the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, and thus also the property of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18344	Thank you very much. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18345	Thank you very much for your answer. But I would ask that the answer come in writing with precise reference to analysis, measures, briefings, agreements, improvements within these communications in terms of the protection of each member, because I know that this was '15, I know exactly when it was, it was almost on the media regarding the interview of a selected police manager. But we through the Commission and through Parliament in some other cases have been informed neatly, and let's say in the Commission 10 to defend this case, and I know of another, I have information for some other cases, we have not been informed at all. So, for less detail, we've been informed, and for these big things, things like this, we haven't been notified, so I'm asking you to get that detailed written answer, so we'll see for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18346	Thank you. Honourable representative Nermina Kapetanović, issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the Ministry of Health, for which it is not clear to me today what it is doing, – What have they done in terms of showing the harmfulness of drug consumption, especially in young people in the development age, because this can lead to addiction if taken intensively and continuously? It is particularly concerned that there are no legal regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina to determine the age of those who use it, but also a declaration establishing its content. The use of narcile is a health damage, especially for young people in the development age, can lead to addiction if taken intensively and continuously, there are no legal regulations. Studies show the harmful effect of narcile on the health of the lungs and the brain, and recently, 50 cases have been verified, new cases of tuberculosis. The toxic effect of dark tobacco smoke and carbon monoxide that is present in the smoking of narcile is significantly greater than that absorbed by the smoking of a common cigarette, and the ratio is approximately that one consumption of a narcile corresponds to the consumption of one, one pack of cigarettes. On the other hand, it is a very dangerous abstinent syndrome, the discontinuation of this substance causes headaches, lack of concentration and attention, tensions that can turn into aggression, moods that can even go to depressing reactions, loss of will and decrease in overall functionality. In particular, mood changes are very dangerous in a society that is otherwise full of violence. It worries that children and young people from only 12 to 15 years of age are beginning to use tobacco and marijuana, and lately more and more drugs and alcohol as reported in the World Health Organisation reports and Bosnia and Herzegovina is among the leading countries in this regard. Given the adverse effects of young adolescents' health, I think the Ministry of Civil Affairs should do special strategies, this famous Health Sector, which I say again that I don't know what they're doing, I don't know what they're doing. I think they have to work to promote a healthy life and point to harmfulness and bring legal acts to prevent these phenomena.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18348	The answer, therefore, is absent from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so we will prepare an answer for the next session. Do you have...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18349	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18350	Written. Thank you, Mr. Kapetanović. 11 Dear Representative Senad Šepić, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18351	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. By who knows which path similar or perhaps the same question – When will the earlier initiative on the redecoration and opening of the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela into an international crossing for human and goods transport be realized, and why has no border crossing of Zagrada in the Great Kladhua been opened so far for temporary daily limited use? A brief explanation: So I've been asking this question, here, for more than two years. We were actively talking about this, not me but also my colleague Emrić, who is also here in the Parliamentary Assembly with me from the UN-San Canton. We've had dozens of promises so far, dozens of deadlines have been missed so far, we've had, we've had all sorts of promises here in the Parliamentary Assembly that this will and how it will be completed. Tens of thousands of our citizens face this problem every day. So this is the most frequent border crossing in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in half a year over two million crossings across this border crossing. On average, people wait two hours at the border crossing, they give birth, children are born at the border crossing. So let's say, in this period we have, we have the heat, as it's called, this one and the rammed one, people faint, waiting to cross the border. I can't believe there's so much unspeakableness, as it's called, people who run the Council of Ministers, people who can do it, to show so much incompetence and to show so much absence, I'd say, one of those people's relationships with these people that within two years, they can't, say, decide to open up a border crossing and make a new one, as I'd say, a tape that people will go over, that instead of two hours they're waiting for about half an hour or 15 minutes, and that they're worthy of crossing the line as they do everywhere. The other day it's only open to, uh, just the locals, the border crossing in the Tržačka Rasteli, so it's a small drop in the sea, I'd say, that problem because it refers to hundreds of people who live there at least. This space. [[Employee is warned on time]] I see the ministers and the ministers here are laughing a little bit when I say, I don't know what's funny, Minister. I've been talking about the problem for two years, about the same problem, I don't know what you need to comment on it that way. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18352	Mr. Šepić, you can't do that, you can't, you can't talk to ministers, just finish your presentation, ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18353	I have, Mr. Chairman, the right to express such dissatisfaction in this regard...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18354	You have no right to speak to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18355	I've been asking the same question for two years, that people... 12
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18356	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18357	for two years they haven't been able to answer...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18358	Who has the Council of Ministers for Answer? Thank you very much, Mr. Šepić. Minister of Security, Mr. Dragan Mektić. Here you go, Minister. Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18359	Dear Chairman, deputies, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you to the honourable representative for asking. We received this question from MP Šepić yesterday, and after reading this question, we saw that the responsibility for this problem and this problem of the state commission for, the Interstate Commission for Border Traffic with the Republic of Croatia, and that this is the answer to this question we need to forward to this mixed committee, which is not at all part of this ministry, but acts as an independent commission established by the Council of Ministers. We have forwarded this letter, therefore, to the competent Commission and I can only, here's all to add one sentence, based on all that knowledge, information by the Commission, it seems to me that the key problem in Croatia is to establish and open a new border crossing, to re-tegorise the border crossing, and there must be an agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. And there is this problem because there is still no agreement of the Republic of Croatia for these border crossings and for pretegorization, and also, I say once again, we have forwarded this question to the Interstate Commission of ours and they will provide you with that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18360	Thank you, Minister. Commentary, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18361	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that you were sent here to answer this. For two years this Commission has this... So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has promised here several times from this pay phone that if something is not resolved within 10 days that he will be held accountable, that something will withdraw, that he will, as he is called, take on himself that kind of responsibility. Don't cheat on these people anymore, I think. I don't know, I don't know what's more to be done here to get someone started, if he doesn't know how to do his job, then he needs to get off that, what's his name, position, someone who knows how to do the job. The commission that's in charge of this, it's already got these two years on it. So, but someone needs to be at the political level, chairing the Council of Ministers or someone leading the government here, someone should call those upstairs colleagues in the Republic of Croatia and initiate it, as hundreds of other things are being initiated. And it's not the first time that I've seen here on this side of the evasive relationship, when you ask a question of a smirk, there's something out there, someone being smart that someone has a problem that they bring out of the field. These people sitting here in this room have chosen you who are sitting here, so thanks to this legitimacy and thanks to these problems that we carry with you you are sitting here.../the ambassador is being warned at the time/... And within two years, you're not, as 13 is called, capable of making one border crossing. to make what's called a asphalt so people can cross. [[Employee is warned on time]] And now you expect that if someone repeats it for the sixth time becomes a problem here, it becomes boring that they say it here in the Parliamentary Assembly. So, I'm going to keep doing this job this way and I'm not going to stop until in that sense, that responsibility is done and people's problem is solved.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18362	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, jasmin Emrić, a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year ago, the authorities in the Republic of Croatia were aware that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted the Resolution on the non-acceptation of the construction of a warehouse and disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste in the location of Trgovina Gora, the microlocation of Cerkezovac, the municipality of Dvor in the Republic of Croatia. Despite the adopted Resolution and our opposition by the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia, they do not give up the construction of a warehouse and a dump near the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina by continuing the procedure, and in February of this year, responses were made to observations and opinions from a public insight of the Strategic Study for the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel. In the published document, it shall respond to the observations and opinions referred to in point 3. Comments from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia were rejected by the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment from 176th to 297th of all objections submitted from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Last year, a ratified agreement was signed between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development, which contained the development of bilateral co-operation based on equality and mutual benefit. As set out in Article 5 of this Agreement, a Joint Commission will be established to coordinate environmental protection activities and to prevent the consequences of events that may have a cross-border impact, asking questions to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – How many meetings have been held by the Joint Commission in accordance with Article 5. The Agreement, and has these meetings discussed the process of producing a Strategic Study for the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste Management, Used Sources and Exhausted Nuclear Fuel, run by the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the Republic of Croatia, and for the construction of landfills and warehouses of radioactive and nuclear waste at the location of Trgovina Gora?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18364	Thank you very much. Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mr. Šarović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18365	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable MPs of the Agreement on the Protection of the Natural Environment, i.e. the Agreement signed with a colleague from the Croatian Government, was signed in April 2016, and this Parliament has ratified, I think, on 24 March, and after a few days, in early April, 14 instruments for ratification were submitted so that this Commission you are talking about is only in the formation phase, given the ratification which was practically about a month or two days ago. In this Commission, of the six members of the three members, the Croatian side, and three members of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is one representative of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and one representative from the resolution ministries of Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. However, the fact is that this issue, and it is a development of a Strategic Study for the National Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy for Radioactive and Nuclear Waste Management, means that activities are being conducted on another platform through an Interresor Working Group that was previously formed, headed by the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska Golić, i.e. as a focal point in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is also the responsible Agency for Nuclear and Radioactive Security in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, a precise agreement, no meeting of this Commission has been held so far because it is only in the phase of formation and constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18366	Thank you. A comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18367	I thank the Minister for his response and for this information, however, as the document which publishes answers and opinions once again unequivocally states from the Republic of Croatia that the role of the representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the procedure of the public debate being formally accepted and analysed, and that it is essential for them, since the programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia decided to build a warehouse and disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste, I believe that this issue should be opened at meetings of the Joint Commission which I hope will form. But I also have a proposal, as a joint session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is being prepared, I propose that, as one of the points of the agenda, it should be included and discussed the state of the proceedings and activities related to the construction of a warehouse and disposal of radioactive and nuclear waste in the place of Trgovina Gora where the Council of Ministers would present the adopted Resolution by both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and make it very clear that it does not accept such an intention for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18368	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Arnaut, question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18369	I thank the chairman. The issue was addressed to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Human Rights Minister. The head of the municipality of Novi Grad Sarajevo has on several occasions made claims and findings about who can or can't be Bošnjak, citing even pseudo-science claims that he himself did research on ethnic origin, reminding of some dark and ancient times. The question is: What is the Ministry's position on this hate speech? 15 Taking into account the powers of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, including jurisdiction, I quote, for the promotion and protection of personal and collective human rights and freedoms, Article 12. The law on the ministries and other authorities of the administration, if you plan to tell me that taking a stand on such statements is not in the jurisdiction of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, then I would also ask you to explain to me the difference between your ministry and the ministries in the region? And, here I will quote – the Government of the Republic of Croatia condemns hate speech and insult; the Government of the Republic of Croatia strongly condemns hate speech and every form of violence and hate speech, racial, religious and sexual discrimination in the fight for equality, human dignity and security of all our citizens; the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights of Montenegro strongly condemns the graphics that took place yesterday on the walls of some houses in Plljeva, has been announced from the Ministry of Culture; the Ministry of Serbia is, in any case, condemning the speech of hate on any basis, and always representing and seeking respect for artistic freedoms; Montenegro – the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights condemns every speech of hate, as on any occasion when the basic and human first is violated by any basis of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights reacts, and this time over numerous negative comments which have been made to MPs of the second-times of Positivena Gorenje, the Croatianstststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststststst Matija Babić's procedure; and finally Montenegro – the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights condemns every hate speech, especially when it comes from MPs. [[Employee is warned on time]] They have jurisdiction, do you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18370	Thank you very much. Answer, Minister of Human Rights, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18371	Dear Ambassador Arnaut, I have today received questions from you – what has been taken on the issues that have been taken in the face of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To the question you asked me today, I answered it in writing the way you asked it. Here, this is already a few times that, to use, I'm not going to say it's your right, but really, you're underlining this question as if I don't want to give an answer, or that the Ministry has no position on this matter. We have made clear on this matter and answered your question. I expected you to comment on this in part, part of the session that talks about comments on the issues you received. Therefore, today I can answer the question I received from the General Secretariat, and what it has done on the issues of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, the ministry is trying to ensure that all its activities are directed towards discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the event of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are suppressed, i.e. to a lesser extent. And on this issue, it has taken a number of important measures, and you know that this Ministry, for the first time since 2009, has submitted a report to this Parliamentary Assembly on discrimination and discrimination issues observed through the 2015 Report. We have also clearly brought and specified the measures necessary for the competent institutions to take. And on this matter of yours, I can only say freely that this Ministry has the opportunity to express its views on the occurrences of discrimination and any form of cause and racial and religious and any hatred, and also to condemn any such statements. All these, 16 of these procedures are proven before the competent authorities and in a certain procedure. You know well what the Law forbids discrimination and the right of anyone who is injured to bear and protect his interest. Therefore, if you want me to answer this question that I received today through the Secretary-General, I can indeed, and what you have commented I have done in writing. I can get you. I also inform that we are working on drawing up a strategic document on the prevention and prevention of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with the help of the European Commission and the OSCE, to take important measures concerning human rights education and the advocate of the application of standards, that guidelines have been made for human rights education, that the Council of Ministers has adopted an Action Plan in the field of human rights training for journalists and media [[Minister is warned on time]] professionals for the period '16–19, to do guidelines for eliminating discrimination in education, etc., etc. [[Minister is warned on time]] So this ministry is truly responsible for the issues of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18372	Thank you, Minister. A comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18373	I thank the chairman. Can I have this extra time the minister received for a comment? I would ask you to tell the Minister, and to all the members of the Council of Ministers, or to inform them that Rule 168 (2) obliges me only to announce to the ministers a sign of the area to which the question relates, that is what I have done. If the Minister expects me to always get a specific question from the Rules of Procedure that doesn't oblige me, you get a hint and you need to think on your feet, so we have ministers that I can think and give answers, especially to a question I've been trying to ask since May. The second thing, I don't know if I understand you correctly, is it then that you, as a competent minister in front of your ministry, condemn this discriminatory hate speech by the head of the Novi City of Sarajevo municipality? If you are judging then I really expect you to put a statement on your website as is done by the Ministry of Croatia, the Ministry of Serbia, the Ministry of Montenegro, here is the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights condemning every hate speech especially when it comes from MPs. Why can't you put that human rights ministry and refugees BiH condemns every hate speech, especially when it comes from the commissioners and other elected officials? [[Employee is warned on time]] I mean, you're avoiding the answer, it's a fact, you're giving some, some cross-section here, The problem we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that everyone is constantly running from jurisdiction. [[Employee is warned on time]] It's me. in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I will use my membership there to say how different our ministry and the minister at the head is from the ministries in the region [[Employee is warned on time]] Human rights protection, and next week's session. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18374	We're done with this preliminary agenda. We're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. At the request of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH, the agenda was removed: Point 12. A programme for the development of a system of protection and rescue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies, material of the Ministry of Security, No 01-04-1049/17, since 29.05.2017. Point 15. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 10.05.2017, which reads: "The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked to deliver the National Security Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, no later than six months from the date of adoption of this initiative at the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in the parliamentary procedure," issue: 01-50-1-1206/17. Add to the agenda: Point 10. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-50-14-1131-5/17, of 31.05.17 Point 13. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Spanish people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the people of Serbia, issue: 01,02-50-14-388-4.3a/17, of 09.06.2017. Point 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, No: 01,02-50-14-1450/17, of 09.06.2017. The fourth point is now amended as follows: point 4. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1074/17, of 21/04.2017, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18375	I thank the chairman. So, in accordance with Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, my colleague Denis Bećirović and I propose that a new point be placed on the agenda of the 48th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives – Information on the protection of the property of the owner of the old foreign savings laid down in Slovenian and Serbian banks, and in line with the European Court's ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Ališić and others. So, counterpart Bećirović and I received via e-mail Information from the Association of Old Foreign Savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina with clear indications that we, as legislators, or 18 as the most legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, do not have enough information on what is happening in the Council of Ministers, at the level of the Council of Ministers. And we also have a person who has been appointed for this procedure between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia, but in the absence of information, we find it quite justified to have this point of the agenda today. With us, according to this agenda, we have a point 9, where we have a report from the Agency on the Protection of Personal Data where, previously discussed on the Joint Commission on Human Rights and the Joint Committee on Human Rights, has supported my conclusion where we have asked Mr Kovačević, as Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency, for additional information where we would be given some cross-section or review of what has been done on the subject of old foreign exchange savings, or what has been done on the protection of personal data of old and foreign savings in accordance with the Convention signed by us as a state, the Convention for the Protection of Personal Data. So, all the conditions are created that we are discussing and obtaining information within this agenda today, because we have representatives and representatives of the Council of Ministers and certainly Mr Kovačević could, as part of this agenda, inform us more about the state of the old foreign savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18376	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18377	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, the Vice-President. I don't know if this question that, or the problem that this club has, we open up now and put it as a part of the agenda, because it's obviously very difficult for the three of us to work. We, as elected MPs in this House, have no place to receive material, no place to take a break, no place to work, no place to take it. So, you, uh, Mr. Chairman and especially, therefore, from the previous discussion that I heard and when you responded, you can go to the fields and applaud, this is not a cheerleading hall, this is the BiH Parliament and please take this question that I, which, which...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18378	Don't talk to me, please present a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18379	It's you, you're the chairman. Don't be so angry, I'm not afraid of anyone's anger or threats.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18380	Give me a draft agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18381	So the most logical thing would be, after all I've heard today and after this month and a half if we didn't have anywhere from this size of a building sitting down, the most logical thing would be to write a proposal for your shift today. So, and this is what might, uh, perhaps lead to the order and work of this Parliament and the relationship of the Presidency or those who chair the elected 19 MPs. It's your duty, therefore, and you're acting like one, so you have no right. You're the first among the equals. So that's all I can say and thank you for that cheerleader...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18382	The word has a respected representative Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18383	Thank you very much. I have two proposals, i.e., i.e., firstly, I would support the proposal of my colleague, Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil and my colleague Bećirović, by suggesting that we resolve this issue by assigning the Council of Ministers to provide us with information at the next session because very difficult, given the complexity of this issue, we can expect information in about half an hour, and especially to prepare ourselves to discuss this information. We've discussed this issue a few times here, not in this conference, but in previous synergy, and I think it would be a good idea for the information to be delivered to the next session. And that is my suggestion, therefore, for my colleague to simply draw a conclusion that we oblige the Council of Ministers to deliver the information to us at the next session without having to discuss it. The other thing is, again, I suggest that point 21 be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18384	What's the 21st?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18385	It is about the Agreement, the status and functioning of the International Commission for Missing Persons. I believe that, as a previous job, it was necessary to complete the Agreement on taking over the role of co-founders of the amendment, i.e. the Agreement on the Function of Co-founders between the Institute of Missing Persons and the International Commission on Missing Persons, which began earlier, to be completed before this Agreement, so that when this Agreement is concluded, we should put this Agreement on the agenda and then ratify it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18386	Thank you very much. Dear representative Hanka Vajzović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually in a procedural misunderstanding about the Rules of Procedure. I gave up the initiative in time, and since it wasn't there, obviously I was wrong with a member of the Rules of Procedure. I called 170, maybe I should've called in to put myself on the agenda. So, it's my request that, so perhaps now I should suggest for the agenda what I was proposing for the initiative, which is why I called, and it was an initiative for the Council of Ministers to deliver to us or, now, to put on the agenda a debate on the issue of the Peljega Bridge and the question, what I was looking for here, building a bridge on Savi near Svilaj. The bottom line is, on the Commission, we got a response from the Ministry that got us all so excited. It didn't make any sense to answer like that, there's a lot of problems and it's time to talk about it here. If so, 20 of them are asked to be on the agenda as an initiative, as if it were a point, a member of the 8th, and that from the Council of Ministers what I asked for, these are the conclusions of the Council of Ministers which took place at its 9th session in 2015 and have never been implemented, and it is a very important state issue. Something that was kind of put aside, and it's about time we talked about it here. So, what I handed over as an initiative is that, somehow at the agenda point, or leave for the next session so that this goes as an initiative, to prepare the material that I asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18388	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. And before I define the agenda point, let me just say that the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs has commissioned the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat to prepare a proposal for the award of the rooms of the Members' Club of Representatives to the Independent bloc. This, given that I do not know how to obtain this information, I propose as the second item of the agenda for today's session – Information College of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat on the implementation of the conclusion of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs. I think it's simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18390	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18391	The essence of what we are proposing has already been presented by a colleague of Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, however, since there are MPs who have been asking certain questions, perhaps to give a few further explanations as to why we are asking for this to be the point of the agenda today. By the way, first of all, the material and proposal for this item of the agenda today is also filled with material for discussion and it is currently being copied and should come to you. In a conversation with foreign savings representatives and colleagues Gasal-Vražalica-Devil and I, we were informed that they had been trying to communicate with the Council of Ministers for almost two months before this session of the House and that this had not been their case. From the standpoints, it is not disputed for the next session and that possibly the Council of Ministers prepares the information and this material that we deliver, but it is too late for these people. That's why we suggest that this be the point of the agenda today. There is some material about it, certain conclusions have been offered, and if Parliament decides to hold the topic at a session of July 5th, then the only appeal left to us here is to try to call on the Council of Ministers, not to waste time until July 5th, but to really try to help people specifically.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18392	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18393	...demands an explanation. Mr. Bećirović said that the savings representatives have been trying to establish communication with the Council of Ministers for two months, I absolutely believe it. I try to communicate with the Council of Ministers for six months sometimes, and I fail.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18394	Dear Representative Mirsad Mešić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18395	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to help solve this problem. Since the material is not shared, either we're looking for a break or you're going to take it, College, to discuss this at the next session. If you want to be at the next session, I'm not asking for a break, and if you don't want to, then I'm asking for a 15-minute break to share the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18396	Thank you very much. So if no one's answering for the word anymore, I'd like to conclude the debate, so let's do a little bit of summary, so this all comes together. We have three representatives, Mrs. Gasal, then Novaković, who joins this and Mr. Bećirović, about this information about foreign exchange savings. We suggest that it be one of the points of the agenda of the next session of the House of Representatives when the material comes to representatives, when they are familiar with the material. If the Council of Ministers delivers information to the office, but we will have information that you will provide, we can... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course, but it's not divided, we haven't seen it, we haven't got it, etc. If this could satisfy your demands, don't answer it, if it isn't, I'll put it to a vote, I mean, we don't have any more. Here you go. How do you have such a need?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18398	...in this case was also the fact that we are doing, as you stated, another two hours and about 15, 20 minutes. It is clear, then, that we will not reach that point of the agenda today. You didn't let us know when the session was going on, I guess it's not tomorrow. It is, therefore, an opportunity for us to put this on the agenda, so that MPs can study it further, and in the meantime, the Council of Ministers to prepare for this session. That's what I'm saying for the simple reason that we're asked by these people to try to act urgently in this case, because according to their views and information, it's going to be too late for this July 5th point. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18399	Okay. Is the material given in division? Where's the material, the service? _________(?) 22 [[no microphone turned on]] And now people have to take it and read it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18402	Information about...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18403	Information on? Just get up, get up, get up, you got the word, go ahead, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18404	Information on the state of old foreign currency savings in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. those who had stored their money in the Slovenian and Serbian banks, according to the European Court's ruling in the case of Ališić and others.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18405	Here you are. Prepare to vote, 22 for, 3 against, 7 abstentions. Enough entity majority. This will be the point of the agenda today, this session. Prepare where it belongs in the Rules of Procedure, set up until I get there when I set up the agenda, as the Rules of Procedure says where the Information Place is, let it be there. We have, therefore, Mr. Novaković's proposal, we cannot stand for a vote, because it is a mandatory item of the agenda, and we can only say that in the end. Mr. Novaković, it's just like that. Mrs. Vajzović, if we can get that material for the next session, we can discuss it at the next session, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18406	Maybe it's better to get whole material, report on what has been done so far in the 10 years of the Pelješke Bridge and this as a very burning issue in the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and leave it all in my initiative for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18407	So turn that initiative into what you're talking about and we'll decide on it next time in Parliament. And we still have, if you agree, do you agree with Mrs. Vajzović, do you agree with this 23 I said that next time, at the next session we will decide what and how to do with this material?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18408	And it can remain an initiative, so we can get the next session material and the agenda point, and then we can decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18409	Yeah, so can we do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18410	No, no, today, then the point of the day, that next time, of course, I'm saying, let's get the material, and let's say that next time it's already known it's going to be classified as a part of the agenda. Until then, that material will be divided and, hopefully, that report I've been looking for will be divided.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18411	All right, let's get this ready for the next session. To prepare as part of the agenda for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18412	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18413	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18414	And by then, we'll have some material coming in. He's standing in the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18415	Okay, thank you. And we have, therefore, Mr Sokolović's proposal – Information from the Secretariat's College on the implementation of the findings of the Administrative Commission, is about your request, which you as the Club had. All right, get ready to vote. Vote now. 23 for, no problem, nine abstentions. So this is going to be the point of the agenda. Which one? What's the agenda point, by order, what does it belong to?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18416	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18417	So, we've concluded the debate on the agenda. 24 I find that this session, the 48th session, has the agenda that you received in the invitation, complemented by the initiative, i.e., a little attention, so with the information, i.e. the proposal of Mrs Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil in the way it has defined it, and this will be the Information on the protection of the property of the owner of the old foreign currency savings laid down in Slovenian and Serbian banks, and all in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg in Case 60642/8 Ališić and others. And that'll be, what part of the agenda? That'll be the 15th point of the agenda. And Information from the Secretariat College regarding Mr Salke Sokolović's request. What point is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18422	Thank you very much. I got the answer, I thank you for getting the answer, but I'm not happy with the answer because it's not accurate, it's not clear. The issue was quite clear and precise, however, the finance minister or the Council of Ministers avoid giving an answer, hiding behind some of their formulations, some kind of project, project design, something from '14, some abbreviations. Only in part of the start of the issue, who and based on whose initiative started the loan process said it was on the Council's initiative, sorry, entity governments, so that they stopped it as something. And precise questions as to why they take these loans, where they will deploy them precisely, clearly there is no answer. Who will be better, citizens, institutions, will there be a reduction in interest rates? No, he won't, I get that. Who'll be better off after taking this loan based on which we'll all be in charge as citizens? Banks. Unfortunately, down at the end of the loan, they write openly that our Council of Ministers and our Ministry of Finance is concerned that in some banks, which are private, is a reduced profit. Imagine, they take care of other people's banks and as their profits are reduced, their profits need to be higher. Where they're going to invest this money Bog knows for sure. And there's another segment that I've been targeting that's talking about 1.9m euros in some expenses, it doesn't say where, whom it's going to pay, what it's going to be. There's also some $700,000 donor funds, and they don't write it where, what, they're going to behave, they're going to owe the citizens. I, because of this way and the relationship of the Ministry of Finance to me as an MP, is less the majority of such relations by the Council of Ministers, I am now calling on all MPs to conclude that the Council of Ministers ceases these procedures and does not come to this post, if possible and this agreement comes here for ratification. to refuse him. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18423	Thank you. Dear Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18424	Thank you. I have addressed the Ministry of Civil Affairs with the question of whether they could provide border funds or obtain in some way some means to obtain GPS bracelets for children 28 sufferers from autism. So I even went so far as to suggest, since at the time that I asked this question was a famous affair about "Croatian woman", the Association "Croatian woman" Livno, where the Council of Ministers singled out 100,000 KM, whose daughter-in-law-in-law, the chairman-in-chief of Borjana Krišto at the time when they applied for this project, and through the media we learned that the church, which was intended for the reconstruction of these funds, had been fenced from these funds and did not want to accept those funds, so I went so far as to get a very interesting answer from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, from their budget, was allocated to those 100,000 KM, so when they returned to the budget that they were simply planning to obtain GPS bracelets, where I received a very interesting response. Therefore, the Health Sector within the Ministry of Civil Affairs is not able to obtain GPS bracelets or support such a project in this year, but will make additional efforts to calculate into its project next year, i.e. the distribution of budget procurement or the allocation of funds for the purchase of GPS bracelets. And when it comes to this famous Association "Croatian Women" Livno they, of course, are familiar with us through the media, but here, we also have black on white that no funds have been recovered, and that the Association "Croatian Woman" Livno stated through its official statement, informed that they did not spend money, there was no realisation of money, but that the money was on the bank account, and that they would in the next, I guess, make it happen, which, of course, opened up to me and gave me a new opportunity to keep an eye on where these 100,000 KMs would end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18425	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, comet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18426	I got an answer that had nothing in it, which wasn't the answer. Dear Ministers, with only one contact with the finance minister, you could have as much as this state serves external debt by the loans they took for road construction. I can't understand your services didn't do that. With only one contact you could get how many vehicles, it's the minister of civil service, who has control over registrations, you know, traffic, one contact could get how many vehicles in this country are registered and on the basis of how much income is made, and so on. So it's incomprehensible to me that I'm responding in this way where it suits me that you're waiting for the one sitting with you to answer. It's really incomprehensible. Clearly, through a partial, part of the answer, I have clearly come up with a subject that is very ticklish. If it's 1,200,000, and I have that kind of information, registered vehicles, if it's only 100 km on what we pay for when we register a vehicle, calculate how much it's an annual asset, without public, transport companies, and I don't know what it is anymore, so times 10 years, just by how much it's due for road construction. So when you add those 8 billion over the indirect tax administration, and I've calculated this, it's about 2 billion, that's already 10, so when you take it credit responsibilities, affair of brothers, [[Employee is warned on time]] A 700km highway could be built in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you, I hope, and I'm waiting to get concrete answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18427	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18428	I thank the chairman. So, I am not satisfied with the response I received from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, among other things, because in that response it says that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, as an authority of the administration, has no authority to take views on the claims and findings of bh officials in the media. This simply isn't true, Minister. So that's not true, and that's why I'm announcing an additional parliamentary question. You are behind the region, open up the website of sister ministries in the region, Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro, and then open your site, your Ministry. In Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia almost every week you have a conviction of some hate speech, because the problem is as acute in countries of the region as it is with us, and your ministry has no condemnation of hate speech in your mandate, not one, and countries in the region have, almost every week condemn some hate speech that is constantly present and also with us, this. That is why I am announcing an additional parliamentary question. I am using this opportunity to underline that, for the Secretariat, I am still waiting for two answers from the BiH Foreign Ministry and one response from the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18429	Thank you very much. Commentary, representative Hanko Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18430	Thank you very much. I actually, if you'll excuse me, want to comment on the unfathomable answer. I think it was important and current at this point, I asked the Ministry of Transport and Communications after that terrible plane crash in Mostar. The question was very simple, and yet I did not get the answer, referring to the Civil Aviation Security Programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it was just a reminder to see how simple it was – why did the Ministry of Transport and Communication keep the Civil Aviation Security Programme in full, I guess, three years from 2014? And why hasn't the Ministry of Transport yet launched activities to bring them into line and remove the objections we received since the beginning of this year? So, very briefly, so, just, I expected that still there, the current, the hot topic, it's a tough subject, but I didn't get the answer, so here's the thing that I'm not. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18431	Thank you. Commentary, MP Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18432	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So I have no answer to the question, unfortunately not one but three, one refers to the Filipović family, the return of the apartment. There's been some promises that I'll have this session by the time I get it, here we go. I'm hoping that the minister won't be in a position to be punished, those 100 marks we're bringing, that she'll answer me next time, and I don't have an answer from the Presidency, I don't know how we're going to do it, and I don't have a response from federal television. So, here, if there's anything you can do to get those answers, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18433	Thank you. I don't see there's any more reports, so we're done with point 2. - Comments on the answers received. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, dated 10.03.2017. (second reading) The draft law was adopted in the first reading at the 46th session of the House, held on 30.05.2017. The Commission for Transport and Communications delivered 12.06. Report on the bill. The Commission accepted the text of the proposal for a law with two amendments adopted. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, Izvolite.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18435	Thank you. This is a second reading, two stages have been completed in the competent Commission and the competent Commission has given a positive opinion twice in both cases with 6 for, only one abstention. So let me just remind you, this is about a bill of law that drives ambulances and fire trucks get the right of a traffic championship, which is an advantage over escorted vehicles. This is a debate in the amendment phase. Two amendments were adopted on the Commission, and I supported both amendments as a legislator of the Law. One of Saša Magazinović's colleagues to whom the current text of the Law, and not treating this matter at all, adds one correction that should have even been included before, which makes the difference between a police vehicle and a prison guard vehicle. In any case, the prison guards' vehicles were armed, which is, of course, acceptable to me as a proposer. They don't get the advantage of ambulances and fire trucks, so I say, they don't treat at all, this amendment doesn't treat the matter of my bill. The second amendment is also the technical nature of counterpart Novaković, and I also supported him, which additionally, therefore, is in position 126. 2. (?) acknowledges what is already written, in Article 126(2), confirms what is already written in Article 125. I say, it is fully acceptable to me, so I have accepted as a proposing, namely, my support for the two amendments that have been adopted and become, and the Commission has forwarded them as an integral part of the bill to the House. I therefore call on the House of Representatives to support this Commission position and finally adopt the law in the second reading, which will then create conditions for it to go to the House of Peoples and, hopefully, to enter into force after the procedure there. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18436	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18437	Dear lady, as far as I know, there's one point ahead, that's a record we should say whether or not we have any objections. You've completely skipped it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18438	No, it's not skipped.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18439	Then what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18440	He was the Rules of Procedure, she was just not being followed. She was before the comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18441	Nothing, thank you. I'll vote against the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18442	Thank you very much. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1074/17, of 21/04.2017, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 24 April 2017. The House College as responsible for considering the Bill's proposal has appointed a Constitutional Commission. On 13 June 2017, the Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Proposal for a Law. The government did not accept that the draft law supplementing BiH's election law was in line with the Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18444	Thank you. I recall, therefore, the draft law supplementing the Election Law has been delivered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and its essence is to restrict the passive electoral right for the rightful convicted war criminals. Personally, I also said that to the Commission, I believe that this is not only a legal 32 question, but also a human, moral and civilization issue and for our society as a whole, of course, for the BiH Parliament. This, therefore, stipulates that no person who has endured the fine of the law imposed by the International Court of War Crimes for the former Yugoslavia or the state court, entity courts, the Brcko District Court or any other court, that such a person cannot either be a candidate or appointed to an electoral or other public office. We had a discussion about it at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, there were some constructive proposals. And as a proposer of this Law, I must say that the suggestions or suggestions of my colleagues Džaferović and Arnaut are acceptable to me because they are going towards further detailing this text. I do not think it is the interest of any people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to be represented by the convicted war criminals. On the contrary, I think it is the interest of all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to limit their activity in the democratic election process. I remind you once again, this is not about, therefore, active voting law, but about passive voting rights, and that limiting passive voting rights is something already known in many European Union countries as well as in other democratic countries in the world. Of course, there have been discussions on the Constitutional Commission and whether such a legal solution would limit the human rights of those persons. I would like to remind that we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina in which, contrary to the Constitution and against the Dayton Peace Agreement, passive electoral law is currently denied by hundreds of thousands of citizens. Both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat, to be more precise, therefore, Hrvat and Bošnjak in Republika Srpska's entity, Srbin in the Federation of BiH entity. How is that not a problem, and it is a problem that in this case this Law would treat, when you look at how many rightly convicted persons it is, somewhere around 200 people, total, which in The Hague, which here at the Court of BiH. So I would really like to call on this law that has been introduced into the regular procedure, which we can discuss, therefore, and in the second reading, to have an amendment phase, to support it today in our first reading. It is also directly and in the function of implementing the Dayton Peace Agreement, namely Annex VII, and I have already spoken of it, because it is unimaginable that we are talking about aneks vi, and that we allow convicted war criminals to have the right to run. So the bottom line is that we take one position, which is that rightly convicted war criminals can't be a symbol of political speech in our country, and I wish we didn't have any dilemmas about it. Of course, it would take a lot of time, and if the instructions and other examples now were, let's say, in the European Union. The engine of the European Union and the country many look up to is Germany. Germany has resolved this issue by its criminal law. They have three members in the criminal law of the Federal Republic of Germany who treat this issue and even more restrictive than what is proposed here today, because there is the possibility of restricting even active, not only passive voting rights. There are many examples of what it looks like in other European Union countries, so I really believe that all the conditions have been met that we can accept this Law today in the first reading. The European Convention on Human Rights also allows us to do so. It should also be noted that the European Court of Human Rights rulings do not cause any interference in this regard, therefore, only now the question is whether we have the political will to resolve this issue in a civilized way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18445	Thank you, counsel. Since we don't have a quorum right now, I'm taking a break by 5:30 to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18446	Let the clubs be informed. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18447	Please take your seats, continue your work. Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18448	Thank you very much. Here, since the item of the agenda is negative Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Complementary to the Election Law, I will try to explain why I was against this Opinion, since as a colleague of the amendment of this Election Law, he also said so today and at the session, that is to say, he explained the proposal for these amendments to the Law and tried to say that on the Constitutional Commission. Namely, I will remind us all of what, in my opinion, I do not know, the highest political and legal act, and I hope that by everyone else who understands that it is the Constitution, I have learned something on the Constitutional Commission, they have tried to convince me that this Constitution does not restrict the right of the Election Law, that it can expand certain things and that it can foresee these amendments to the Laws that have been delivered. I haven't really heard that before in legal practice, and I'm particularly surprised that they're saying that, and that's what the Guardians of the Dayton Peace Agreement, namely the Anexa IV Constitution of BiH, are all about. And this constitution says in its article IX – no person who endures a sentence issued by the international court for the former Yugoslavia and no person who is under the indictment of the court and who has disobeyed an invitation to appear before the court cannot run, nor can he conduct any appointed electoral or other public office on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll remind you of Article 1.7a. The electoral law behind which, in fact, in the proposal of this Electoral Law, I am not talking about but in the context of my opinion, says that none of the persons who have been sentenced by another country's court or person who has not complied with the order to appear before another country's court for serious violations of humanitarian law, and the International Court of War Crimes for the former Yugoslavia has considered his record before the arrest and found that it meets international legal standards, cannot be entered in the Central Election List, nor can he be a candidate, nor has any appointed electoral or other public office in Bosnia and Herzegovina territory. What I was handling is that the current Electoral Law, which means, in part, it prescribed the provisions of Article IX by also going wider and limiting it. We have some clues here, I see, confirmed by the Central Election Commission, limited both active and electoral, and passive voting law which, of course, is the opposite of the BiH Constitution, I repeat once again. So for these reasons, it means going with the proposal not to go absolutely and without commenting on political matters, background etc., not at all getting involved in such things, the provision that has been proposed, so this Law is unacceptable, i.e. completely contrary to Article IX of the Constitution. And, here I am asking and calling on everyone, especially us who have committed ourselves to respecting the BiH Constitution, here in front of this House, to have these things in mind and to behave accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18449	Thank you. 34 The word has a respected representative Denis Bećirović, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18450	I think after this intervention, that even a distinguished colleague, Krišto, could still support this bill. In spite of the provisions of the Constitution, not only of Article IX but also of Article II which speaks of human rights, of fundamental freedoms, of all conventions that are part of our Constitution, have a superior character, I think that for us, it should be the authority of the Venice Commission. Therefore, I would now like to quote to you what the Venice Commission and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have adopted, so it is a matter of guidelines for elections and it is very clear, among other things, that this issue is resolved and that the right to be chosen and elected is taken away. In the light of the Venice Commission, it stands, and I will now quote it -- provisions that deny political rights can be laid down. Such provisions must be provided for by law or may be caused by serious criminal liability. I quote further what the Venice Commission says – the conditions to take away the right to be chosen can be less stringent than those to take away the right to choose, since it is a public function and it can be justified to exclude persons whose activities in such a function would hurt a significant public interest. So that's the opinion of the Venice Commission. If, in addition to all the other arguments, the Venice Commission and the Paramentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are not our authority, then I don't know who can be the authority. And not to mention that we're going to be in a position to discuss here whether about 200 rightfully convicted war criminals can have active and passive voting rights, and hundreds of thousands of Bošnjak, Srbin, ostali, Hrvat, etc., they can't have that right. I think it's real. Irregular to hundreds, thousands of citizens of this country. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18451	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, esteemed representative of Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18452	Thank you very much. And I wanted to refer to the discussion of the respected colleague Krišto, when she challenged the possibility of passing such a law that would limit the voting rights of certain people. Simply, therefore, my colleague Bećirović called on these standards, we had opportunities to discuss them on the Interresor Working Group together with colleagues from the Central Election Commission, and my colleague Šantić is there, and if he can confirm the lady, therefore there are internationally established, acceptable standards of restrictions on active and passive voting rights, here I see them also mentioned by my colleague Bećirović. And if we were to adopt this Law in the first and second readings, he would not be against it. So that's, it's about the law to restrict these rights to one reasonable extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18453	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18454	Since we are calling on the Constitution of BiH, which we have all sworn upon, I would ask the esteemed Mrs. Krišto that the Constitution is fully respected and that the legislative regulation that this House and the House of Peoples have brought is fully respected, not only when it comes to this segment but in general. Now, you've called for the respect of the Constitution, remember that you said you wouldn't respect the laws passed by this House, let's say for the payment of a TV subscription.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18455	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18456	Thank you. I think this question really requires a legal explanation. Therefore, the BiH Constitution in Article IX establishes a restrictions that no one who has disobeyed the orders of the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia cannot be a candidate in the elections. And that's a restriction that's a constitutional category and it's like that we can't legally change. So we wouldn't be able to pass the law that allows such persons. However, the Constitution did not, in any other article, prohibit the legislator from taking a step further and setting up other restrictions, because if that was the intention in Dayton then it would have been made clear, then it would have been said that only those persons could not be on the electoral lists, etc. And as an example, you have the fact that the restrictions have been extended both in Articles 1.7 and 1.7a, thus extending first to persons who are on the basis of penalties, i.e. they did not comply with the orders of the courts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as regards war crimes, and then 1.7a persons who did not comply with the orders, i.e. they did not comply with the penalties imposed by courts in other countries, etc. And even, here's a member of the first paragraph of the 8th Judges of the Regular Constitutional Courts, prosecutors, their deputies, defenders, etc., general auditors, vice-generals, governors and vice governors of the Central Bank, etc., and they can't be candidates, so let's move on. And according to that theory, we only have to stay on that restriction that is contained in the Constitution, then no other restrictions would be possible, and that would only be true if the Constitution itself said it was the only restrictions allowed, but the Constitution didn't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18457	Thank you. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18458	I thank the chairman. Dear counterpart Bećirović quotes the Venice Commission's opinion nicely, however, everything should be quoted. In the Venice Commission's opinion of 190/2002. The Code of Good Practice in Elections discusses the withdrawal of post-species voting law and stresses that the principle of proportionality must be respected. The European Court of Human Rights has concluded in several cases that the most important case against Italy is that passive voting law can only be limited to prisoners, not to free citizens only to prisoners. So when we quote, we have to quote everything. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18459	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18460	Thank you very much. I also refer to what Mr Bećirović said, precisely what Mrs Pandurević had already said and was not clear until the end, so what the Venice Commission meant by that, I suppose, and I know, to think of the judgments that the courts are making. We can't bring Parliament to be a judge. So that kind of ban on a man can only tell a court. So, I don't have any special attitudes as Mrs. President said, uh, but if a man is a free citizen and if he's served what he's got, and if he's been returned, or if he's enjoying human rights, then you can't, as I would say, break it, that I don't get it wrong, the rights of someone else, this, correct what's been done to others. So you cannot, by violating one right, make justice for others who have already been deprived of those rights. Therefore, I will support the opinion of the Constitutional Commission and I do not think it would be right that in the Electoral Law, it might be possible to think about the Penal Code, if the courts were given the opportunity to impose such a measure, for example. to persons who have received such criminal acts and who may be deprived of that right, and that is what we say in Parliament in the Law of Elections, it seems to me that this does not comply with the General Charter of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18461	Thank you very much. Discussion, distinguished representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18462	I thank the chairman. Here, let me briefly say that I fully support the proposed addition of the BiH Election Law in order to prevent situations which, unfortunately, already happen for convicted war criminals to be candidates and which is the worst of being elected to very important functions in this country. I will set an example of the Municipality of Velika Kladhua, where convicted war criminal Fikret Abdić, who ordered, planned and organised the formation of camps and assembly centres in the area of the Municipality of Velika Kladhua in order to shut down civilians, where they were treated inhumanely because they were physically and mentally abused, was a candidate and most tragically elected head of the Municipality of Velika Kladhua. In order to protect the rights and feelings of surviving victims and citizens who have passed the humiliation, torture and abuse through camps and other constituencies, it is necessary to adopt the proposed additions of the Electoral Law in order not to repeat such a situation in any part of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18463	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18464	I think that we can really come into a position that I don't know how to defend, which political arguments, nobody wanted to replicate or to speak about, but if this law fails these, as much as it does, something more, or if there are 200 rightfully convicted war criminals, then they remain with active and passive voting law, and no problem is hundreds of thousands of people who do not have that right and that honest, well-intentioned people. So is that normal? According to this proposal Lovrinović, the result is this, let's say Bishop Franjo Komarica in Banja Luka will not continue to enjoy his passive voting rights, but therefore war criminals will be legally convicted in The Hague. So is there any justice and logic in this country? There isn't, is there?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18465	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18466	We agree he doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18467	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18468	Does it not mean anything to us even how Germany solved it? Well, here, we haven't had time to say that most US states, not only abolish such and similar people passive voting rights, but actively. My kolegica Pandurević spoke of this report and the opinion of the Venice Commission and you did nothing wrong, he is much wider than what I was talking about too, but in essence this find by the Venice Commission, and he was also adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, giving us the right to resolve this issue. It is not a good message if we from this Parliament and after this point of the agenda go in a way that we here, under the precepts, or some of us, have fought that war criminals have every right And these people have done these forms of human rights violations before that. [[Employee is warned on time]] Denying the elemental right to life. [[Employee is warned on time]] Well, it makes perfect sense that the democratic state has some right. limit it. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18469	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18470	Okay, I have a dilemma. If we adopt this law hundreds of thousands of those to whom we violate our rights, will we be entitled? So, they won't get anyone's right, uh, out of these hundreds of thousands who don't have that right now if we adopt this law, but just take away some rights. So, today these people are going to the polls and they're going out for the last election. I didn't notice that it was any problem to anyone, I didn't notice in public or that it caused any problem. I don't know if the Central Election Commission is the rule of some kind of problem, and here's their 38 report, so we'll see whether or not it is, but in any case I'm not up to it, and that's why I was, so one of those members of the Constitutional Commission who was against this law, I'm not for us to violate those rights, let them violate the court. If the court says that someone can't use that right, I didn't want to have to respect the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18471	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18472	Here, I've heard a certain set of corrections of the wrong quote, none of which refers to what I was saying. The only thing I realized, and there is nothing I can do to help, is that every day we are witnesses in this House, that from, and from Mr Bećirović and from many others today what we have heard at this point – the Constitution is me, the Venice Commission, it's me, the court, it's me, it's the state, it's me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18473	Thank you. Damir Arnaut's esteemed representative, correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18474	I thank the chairman. It was not clear to me that Mrs Pandurević's reference to Skopol's verdict against Italy was clear. I can say that I am the only one in this House that represented, and that successfully, applicant before the European Court of Human Rights Dr. Pilava, so I can, uh, talk about these things. I assume you were referring to Skopje's third ruling against Italy, since this is the case Mr. Skopola withdrew before the European Court of Human Rights, but only the third ruling of December, concerns the right to choose and be elected. And that's why I don't understand why you used this particular example because in that case the Court just ruled in favour of Italy, and against Skopola, this one, and allowed restrictions on the right of someone to choose and be chosen for certain, for certain acts. In that particular case, Mr. Skopola was sentenced to 30 years for killing a woman. This, quite, quite a serious crime, but you can say in any case less serious than some acts of war crimes. So I don't know who gave you this, I suggest you get another, or you hire another legal advisor, but Skopol v Italy is not a reference, nor a good example, perhaps a better example, but here I won't help you now, would be Hirš(?) against the United Kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18475	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18476	I thank my esteemed colleague Arnaut who has just confirmed everything I've said, Mr. Skopola is in prison, right, is not a free citizen. I mean, and it's a clear verdict, as it were -- whoever's in prison. If you want to say whose opinion it is, the opinion is the European Integration Directorate, Mr Arnaut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18477	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, deputy chairman Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18478	I'm not as good with Mr. Skopol as Mr. Arnaut is, but I do know that the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, among other things, has reached a verdict against the UK, which states that it must provide the right to vote on prisoners and that it is one, parallel to our Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac, that was one of the unimplemented verdicts of Western countries that there are many. And now I didn't think I was involved in this debate, whether or not the people, look, the people were convicted of something, they endured that punishment they got, there's no ban in that sentence after they've endured any restrictions, and you're now asking us to judge those people again even though they've endured the punishment for which they've been convicted. No, I don't think it makes any sense. I think the politicized question is, especially what's already happened is that these people voted, even they were elected. How are you going to change that now? So I guess we won't support this, because we think it will cause more problems than benefits, or we don't see any benefit from that, except for the emotional outflow of feelings towards the victims of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we certainly witness over and over again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18479	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18480	Thank you. No, in Italy it was just a matter of restrictions after he endured the sentence. And the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, if you have this on their memorandum, would like to see and ask them some parliamentary questions about their competence. And as for Mr. Bosić, yes, I just said, Hirš. against the UK, however, there was no proportionality in this particular case. In fact, the British legislation forbade all those who are on the basis of penalties, regardless of the part, the active and passive electoral law and the European Court of Human Rights said there was no principle, or the principle of proportionality is not respected. Therefore, it is necessary for the country's legislation to deny this, this passive and active voting rights to prisoners and those who have endured the punishment to be some principle of proportionality, i.e. to make the measure proportionate to the severity of the ban and that is the standard practice of the European Court of Human Rights. So, 40 in the UK we had a situation where someone convicted of shoplifting for six months also has a suspended passive and active voting right as someone like Mr. Skopola kills his wife. And that is exactly why the UK was ordered to amend its legislation, and Italy in the case of Skopol, the third case of Skopol, did not. There is already a principle of proportionality with us, i.e. the principle of proportionality is already respected, because in our case, the Election Law exclusively establishes restrictions for persons who are on the basis of penalties for war crimes and the crime of genocide, etc. So we have no problem as Britain had in the Hirsch case.(?) I also argue that we would not have it, we would have no problem if we adopted this proposal by Mr Bećirović, because not only would proportionality be respected, but everything the Court decided in the Skopje case would be respected. As for your attempt to be funny, that I'm good with Mr Skopol, uh, I'm mostly good with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and all that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, as you said, adopts, and much better than you, which can be seen by the number of votes when we take part in those sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I may be playing one, two votes, and you may be voting at one or two points. What you're doing during the rest of that time isn't familiar, but anyway, if we're gonna be funny, here, let's go and compete, there's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18481	Okay, thank you. You're competing. I don't know. I'm closing the argument. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-02-1-1348/17, since 26.05.2017. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 31.05.2017, which you received. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission to consider the bill. The Constitutional Commission is 13.06.17. delivered Opinion on the Bill's Proposal. The Commission has found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system and has accepted the principles of the bill. I am opening a debate, but in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I shall cut it in half, so for 5 minutes in the rest of the session. Mr. Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18483	Thank you very much. I think it is my turn to say at least a few sentences concerning the law in question, given that in the Joint Commission which dealt with the issue of the making of this Law, amongst 41 others, we were engaged alongside me in Predrag Kožul, Salko Sokolović, Safet Softić, Ljilja Zovko, Ognjen Tadić, as well as Ministers Josip Grubeša, Semiha Borovac, Dragan Mektić, of course with the support of the OSCE and ODIR. So that's one activity we've been running over this past period of time. I believe that this law is practically, in my opinion, a good step that should be really positive in terms of the development of the political system in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I appreciate that it includes practically a good tool offered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly so that it can play its control role. In this regard, I think that if we make good use of everything that this Law provides we will in some way strengthen the position of the Parliamentary Assembly against the executive bodies of the authorities over which parliamentary oversight is carried out, as well as parliamentary investigations. So far experience has shown that there is a need for this kind of law. What you have seen for yourself, it seems to me that we may even have been able to link this point to the Commission's report, because in this part of the Commission's report on the work, the ODIR and OSCE representatives say that this is, that these solutions are certainly and in their opinion can serve as a good start to strengthen and strengthen the Parliamentary Assembly, and in contrast to the executive authorities over which parliamentary control is being carried out. Surely there is, in my opinion, I believe that this law should be even more rigorous and harsher, some think it should not, this is a compromise solution as a first step towards strengthening the position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it will certainly need to be completed. If this Law is passed and put into practice, we will see the results of the application of the Law itself. So, it's not this question, of course here is a large part of the issue solved by our Rules of Procedure, and a large part of the question is solved by this Law. It seems to me that this is all settled together in one whole way and that it is safe to improve the practice, which should be introduced here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because very often, I will only set an example, and you know very often that representatives of the executive bodies often set themselves completely different from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which, of course, should not be, to be the case. I think that by applying this law we will create conditions, among other things, to position the Parliamentary Assembly differently. navest will only specify the need to, after this Law, believe that there will be an interest with MPs, to pass a law on the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which will resolve several issues, which I have talked about earlier, the representative role, the electoral role and the control role, of course, of the Parliamentary Assembly. So let's say, for example. We have a situation here in the Parliamentary Assembly we often pass legislation, I will point out the one most important – the budget, often comes in an emergency, emergency procedure where we MPs have no opportunity to change that budget at all. We do not have financial independence as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly compared to the executive authorities. If that is the case, the executive authorities determine the Parliamentary Assembly’s budget, we are therefore in a position that we simply cannot build that position of the Parliamentary Assembly that we should build. Therefore, in addition to this regulation, here I would, in a way, have initiated the Kolegijum and other fellow Members to consider adopting a law on the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that would establish, not only obligations, not only rights, but also obligations of the Parliamentary Assembly concerning the issue of financial independence of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This will practically create conditions for those who elected us to the Parliamentary Assembly to exercise parliamentary oversight over the executive bodies of the authorities, in fact, to play that role that is why we are here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Not to be complicated, solutions are offered in the law itself, I don't think they are perfect, sure we can promote them, but we seem to have invested enough time and enough effort and provided the opportunity for MPs, who was interested in proposing their vision at the stage of this Law, and ultimately there is the possibility and effect of amendments. I don't think it's perfect, and I think it's quite enough to start with this job that puts the Parliamentary Assembly in that position that belongs to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 42 I am taking the opportunity to thank the OSCE, distinguished colleagues from Parliament, ministers who have really worked very well to make this law. This is not the Law of any individual, this was done by an entire team, so I believe they will live to be adopted here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18484	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18485	I thank the chairman. As someone who has also proposed sanctions through the additions of the Law on Administration, I believe that the Law on parlamentary supervision is extremely necessary and that even in the amendment phase, some provisions can be spoken of. I just want to say here briefly what I already said on the Constitutional Commission and officially ask the Secretary of the House and the Secretary of the Joint Service to determine exactly what happened here with the Opinion of the Legislative Sector. According to the Rules of Procedure, the legislative sector has two tasks. One is to determine whether the bill is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the other is in compliance with the Single Rules. And then deliver an opinion is or isn't. And this is the first time I have seen that the legislative sector after it has established compliance with the Rules of Procedure does not say or does not comply with the Single Rules. We have concluded on the Commission, as members of the Commission, that it is in accordance with the Single Rules, and this makes it even more unclear to bring the legislative sector into political matters. So, the legislative sector here allowed itself to say – as regards the structure of the bill, we consider Article 1 to be unnecessarily comprehensive. I think it is for my colleagues and for me to decide whether a member of the law is needed or unnecessaryly ensnared and that, if we determine it is, that we should amend it, not that the legislative sector is giving us political assessments. Then, here we have a second and third paragraph, says – as regards the form of the bill, not a consistently respected member of this and this Unique Rules relating to the internal division of the regulations which requires that each regulation has at least two members. Which states that each regulation has at least two members. This regulation, this bill of law has 69 members, so I really don't know what they mean here. And then here, in the third, political grade again. So, I am really asking the Secretary of the House and the Secretary of the Joint Service to establish for which reasons the legislative sector has deviated from both its business obligations and its practice and entered into political assessments in this Opinion and to at least inform me about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18486	Okay, that's it. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Annual consolidated internal audit report 2016 – applicant: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1110/17, dated 26.04.2017. 43 The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as responsible for considering the Annual Consolidated Report. The committee in charge is 13.06.17. delivered Opinion on the Annual Consolidated Internal Audit Report for the year '16. A year. The Commission has accepted the Annual Report and is proposing to the House its adoption. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda seven, Ad. Seven. Consolidated report on the financial management and control system for 2016 – submiter: Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, issue: 01,02-16-1-1110-2/17, dated 26.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18490	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18491	Well, maybe you should just say hello to Parliament. _________(?) 44 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, if there's a need, there's always a need when a functioner comes in here, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18493	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. I won't take away your precious time, I'm aware that the day has been really hard, I only have one brief message for you, actually I ask you to pay attention to this report for just one reason. The report is extensive, he's on over 160 pages, his first part you got and adopted a month ago when we submitted a special report on the conduct of local elections. This report contains a retrospective of all the activities we were dealing with last year. However, the recommendations themselves did not bother us at all. Why? Because we've been copying recommendations for the last four, five years. It is that this Parliament, once it adopts the report on the implementation of the law under the responsibility of the Central Election Commission, adopts a set of recommendations to improve the electoral process, however, these recommendations are not being implemented. And I'd like to draw your attention that it's really important that we stop that practice this year. We write down a series of recommendations that have already been adopted by this House and this House above. So I ask you to really make a great effort to follow the implementation of these recommendations and to make efforts, and the Central Election Commission, but we cannot do much without your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18494	I would like to thank the President of the Central Election Commission. We move on to, I conclude, so, the debate, no more reported. Let's go to point nine, Ad. Nine. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – submiter: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, issue: 01,02-04-1227/17, of 12.05.2017. The House College has appointed the Joint Commission for Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly as the person responsible for considering the Report. The committee in charge is 13.06.17. delivered Opinion on the 2016 Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina The Commission accepted the report. In its conclusion, the Commission has tasked the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide us with complete information by this session on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will include general data related to the treatment of old foreign currency savings. The agency is 13.06.'17. delivered the information you received. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18496	Thank you. 45 I would first of all, and I have done so on the committee responsible, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, I would like to congratulate both the Agency and the Agency's leadership on such a brave and extensive report. This, as I said already on the Commission, is one of the best reports I have read in my capacity as MPs. So we had a situation here, or we had a situation where the director of the Personal Data Protection Agency was a minor suspect because of what they did, did their job, or controlled the respect of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. As the Director of the Agency has now said, he is a witness due to abuse by the suspended chief prosecutor and that is what I was talking about earlier today in the debate. We have one sentence here – a logical conclusion is that the only goal of the investigation against the director was to cause fear which becomes an integral part of the functioning of this society and state. This is a really worrying sentence, but I don't think the team is incorrect at all, taking into account everything the Agency's director has been exposed to and taking into account everything else that comes out now through VSTV's moves and actions, which I spoke about earlier today, that is, at today's earlier session. We also have extremely worrying data on the processing of personal data on the health status of participants in the criminal proceedings. We have this finding – the conduct of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, and it has never been established whether it acted on the order of the Prosecutor's Office, either by word of mouth, written or otherwise, in any case – the conduct of the State Agency for the Investigation and Protection of BiH as well as doctors, or health institutions, during the processing of personal data on the health condition of the person in advance described it was contrary to the Law on Criminal Procedure, the relevant laws in the field of health, and it was the very opposite and basic principles of legal processing of personal data. So we here have not only a situation where the Law on the Protection of Personal Data has been violated, but we also have a situation where dealing with medical records was the opposite of the Law on Criminal Procedure and the relevant health laws. For this reason, on my proposal, the Joint Committee on Human Rights forwarded this report to the BiH Prosecutor's Office to carry out actions in accordance with their responsibilities so that this report would not remain just something to be delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and, regardless of what is truly frightening, only one MP discusses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18497	Thank you. Do you? You don't have to. Thank you. So, I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. We're moving on to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Control, issue: 01,02-50-14-1131-5/17, dated 31.05.17. You got the report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th agenda, 46 Ad. 11. Report by the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve identical text Amendments and additions to the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I hope my colleagues don't mind, but I would still remind my colleagues of the order of events that it was at last session when we made this candidate's choice contrary to the Commission's proposal. We simply stuck to the principle that what the Commission proposed, we supported this proposal and we were there in principle and we will remain as principled as we were in previous cases. Of course, this is one way that shows that this Parliament should not act. I hope my colleagues here won't mind me, especially those sitting here in front of me, that we are always right, but here I want to say and to point out again that we were right and that we were consistent and principled to the end by supporting the Commission's proposal. And, uh, either we support the work of committees and their decisions or we don't support them, we 47 have to define ourselves once for these things. And I am glad that the House of Nations finally adopted this as it adopted and corrected a rough mistake, a material mistake made by the House of Representatives, whether we are right or not, but all of the information that has been related to all the names that took part in this election game, this one, member of this Commission. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18502	Thank you. Honorable representative Monika Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18503	I welcome all present. Since I am in charge of reporting on this commission that has worked, we, who have been present, have unanimously agreed that the person chosen by the Commission to be elected to this Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18504	Thank you. If there are no more reports, we'll close the debate. Moving to point 13, Ad. 13. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Spanish people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of a procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the people of Serbia, issue: 01.02-50-14-388-4.3a/17, of 09.06.2017. The interim joint commission of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure is 09.06.'17. delivered in the procedure of the Report on the designation of a candidate for appointment of a member of the Independent Committee. The proposed candidate for the Independent Committee is Tatjana Kljecanin-Klječanin-Martić, with 91.6 points won. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 14, Ad. 14. Amendment and addition of the Annual Plan for Training and Exercise of Members and Units of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina abroad for 2017, material of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: 03/1-03-1362/17, since 29.05.2016. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18508	Since we're on our way to maybe end this session tonight, and I'm going to make an effort to make my contribution, so I'm going to shorten the discussion. With regard to this item of the agenda, Commissioners Gasal-Devil and I have also offered the relevant material, the material on page 6, 7, and 8 has been offered a total and five conclusions are our proposal, among other things, to make it clear to the House on the basis of these five conclusions proposed in this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18509	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18510	The protection of old foreign savings is immaterial, of course it should go but this, but why is the Post office Bank of Zagreb, Privredna banka Zagreb, Privredna banka Montenegro, and so on? It's not just banks from Serbia and Slovenia, it's just not true. Therefore, all legal entities must be covered, because they are their foreign savings, the chairmanship of the association(s). I ask what will happen to my mother, my mother's foreign exchange savings, which is part of the Post office Bank of Croatia, part of the Privredna banka of Croatia. It's completely forgotten. 49 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, that's why I suggest that the banks from all countries of the former Yugoslavia enter here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18512	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18513	Thank you very much. Here, and I'm going to contribute that this, uh, this ends as quickly as possible, if we can, this session, with me suggesting that on page 8 the conclusion 1 is deleted. In fact, if we look at this bold part on page 7, then we will see that the European Court of Human Rights has called and warned savings from Bosnia and Herzegovina that they must submit applications to Serbia. So, on this basis, both from the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, they save their applications on the basis of which an agreement with Serbia is meant to be paid off. We have a problem in the Federation because these funds have been converted into certificates that cannot now, or cannot be solved within the Federation, cannot be solved, and this conclusion suggests that no requests are received, reports from the Republika Srpska until until the problem that exists in the Federation is resolved, and that really does not make any sense that you condition a problem there, or a question where there is no problem with solving a problem that, in reality, who knows when it will be solved. It will be very difficult to resolve this, this issue of certificates in the Federation, because the state has deceived, in this case, the Federation, the citizens. So, I'm asking the proposer of the agenda point to delete the conclusion one, or to give it up, and in that variant I'm ready and I, and I believe, and my colleagues to support these conclusions. If we don't delete the first conclusion, we won't support any other conclusions. I repeat, it is incorrect in part to condition, condition where there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18514	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18515	Ma'am, it's not a guilty allegation, but since colleague Novaković, he was talking about Conclusion 1, it's actually Zaljučak No. 3, it's just the first one on the side, right, 8. The two of us have tried to reconcile certain things on this issue, we have failed, so the chairman, on behalf of the promoter, I propose and ask that when we declare it to be an individual statement, not in the package. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18516	Okay. You've heard, you've got to record it. 50 Do we have more reports? There isn't. Moving to point 16, Ad. 16. Information College of the Secretariat on the implementation of the conclusions of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, No 03/5-50-14-11-192c/17 of 30.05.2017 – Proposer: MEP Salko Sokolović You've reached the conclusion of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18518	I hope the chairman won't interrupt me because she's become his habit, so I don't know for what reason, uh, he's doing it, because it's a reflection of an unprofessional relationship with an MP, with MPs, etc., whatever their political or other steps are taking during the term of office, and therefore I think it's very incorrect and therefore I have to say, what you're doing to the club that's newly formed. So, it does, unfortunately, and College, I don't know if the whole, along with the Secretary of the House, is okay. So, I have here this material that I'm going to hand over to you because I don't know where I'm going to take it, to take it to your cabinets because there's a lot of space there, and you have secretaries that can unpack it nicely and all that you need to do. So, I guess we're the same in this House, and you should act like one. What, wait, so three people who were elected to the largest House in this country, in a country that has the smallest number of MPs and a building that once served I don't know how many MPs, you know better Mr. Džaferović, because you know better this system of Communism than I do, because I wasn't in it, uh, had the capacity to receive so many people, and MPs and all that it took to work at home. Now there is, now it's much, much less, and for your familiar reasons, and for my familiar reasons, you won't, you won't let people have a chair they'll sit on, not walk in the hallway, not humiliate them, you don't have a right to it. There are people, Mr. Džaferović, in this country who do not accept that they are humiliated, regardless of the last name and family behind you. So I'm responsible for telling you here because I have a better explanation when it comes to who I am and how much I've given for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18519	Thank you. Does anyone want to talk any further? jasmin Emrić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, since colleagues have nowhere to sit, and this is not appropriate for this House, my colleague Backović and I have now agreed to offer hospitality in our room until this solution is found even though our office, I think, is the smallest in this House, but we cannot accept the fact that fellow MPs do not have their jobs. I know what it's like to travel to 51 Sarajevo, unpack, prepare materials, it's very demanding, and if I don't have a job to do it, so I don't know how to perform my function. I think we all need to think about this and deal with it urgently. I can't accept that there's no room in this many buildings for one Club of Representatives. It is not acceptable for me, and, behold, my colleague Backović agreed, we have six chairs, the four of us will give in to you, we are left with two, we are only enough two, and be our guests until this situation is resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18521	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. [[Common discussion]] Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, if you have applied for the discussion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18523	Thank you, thank you, Chairman. For reasons of correctness, we should say that today at the Expansive College we have had the opportunity to hear this request that is completely legitimate and completely justified and we are absolutely standing at the point of view that colleagues should have space. It is beyond any doubt, but was also said by the secretary that a proposal has been prepared and that an adequate space has been found, but that a session of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs is waiting to decide in this regard. So, now it's a matter of the Administrative Commission, and it might be good to invite the President of the Administrative Commission to hold a session of the Joint, or Joint Administrative Commission within a short period of time to verify that this decision can be verified, that colleagues can get space, which absolutely no one disputes that they need. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18524	So, if no one answers the word anymore, I will give the word to the Secretary of the House of Representatives, but before that I will say that I reject, therefore, all the insinuations referred to me in this discussion. I have nothing to do with this, and I don't want to lead any controversy on this subject with anyone at all. And it's a shame what we heard today when it comes to the presidency of the House. I can't keep my mouth shut. You have your word to the secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18525	Good afternoon, everyone. On the agenda, regarding this point, here I have consulted with one of the members of the Secretariat's colleagues, we are at our College, so we got this conclusion of the Administrative Commission in 07.06., the same day we set out a proposal, this, room on the second floor to propose, this, the College of the Secretariat to the Administrative Commission of Space, Office number 232. So, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, the Administrative Commission decides on the basis of a proposal from the Secretariat's College on the distribution of working premises in the Parliamentary Assembly. 52 So, the decision of the existing has been made, the request has been made by the Club. In addition to the request for the room, this new Club sent a request for funds, I think that the Administrative Commission replied that, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, this request is impossible to meet without amending the Law. I would also like to remind you of the provisions of the Code, the conduct of MPs, of Article 20. The attitude towards employees, he says, will show respect for employees without prejudice, including political ideology, religious, sexual, etc. I felt a certain dose here today, and neither do I, the impatience of MP Ahmetović towards the members of the College and myself personally, accusing me of obstructing the Decision on the award of space to the new Club. I can't and I won't because I'm not in charge. I mean, you need to be a little bit correct, I apologize for being like this, the one, but I think I'm doing my job professionally here. We at the Secretariat's College, and before we were officially concluded by the Administrative Commission, we decided and made a decision, we established the proposal according to the Administrative Commission. So, it wasn't for a second or for Marin Vukoja's secretary of the House of Representatives, as the MP accused me half an hour ago that I was obstructed. So, for the sake of correctness, for the sake of everything and for the respect of the Codex, alluding to my political belongings. I don't think I'd comment on anything further.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18526	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18527	Well, this really is the dom becoming where the Home Secretary gives a lecture, the one... So, more and more of me... yes, so I'm not in charge of these rooms here. I'm supposed to have a chair, and my colleagues, where we're gonna come sit down. I don't care about politics, Mr. Secretary, your political status at all, I'm interested in what you're supposed to do. And you, therefore, are calling the Council of Ministers on a phone call and making very important decisions for this country, and you cannot call a session of the Administrative Commission or a telephone or any other session for three chairs and one table. How are you not ashamed of what you're saying, and so are you, Mr. Džaferović, to allow it to be treated that way by a representative in this House? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18528	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, look, obviously there are certain obstructions and we can't get away from them. The club was formed on May 5th, today is June 14th. You say you got a memo on June 7th, and I got a 30th. So, I'm surprised that a few floors of paperwork traveled so much, from the Administrative Commission to you seven, eight days, and it came to me on 30.05.2017, on the day of the session. Therefore, you must admit there are certain obstructions. When I talk to the gentlemen of the Administrative Commission, the College of the Secretariat didn't finish the story, when I speak, 53 here, with you, and you convince us here, you got it late, passed on, now it's their turn. I mean, it's no problem, but there's a procedure, but she's long. You understand? For a month and a half, we've been waiting, reminding me of that period from the war, is there any refugees walking down the halls here, uh, on the first floor, we're building up some space to sit down and talk? I mean, this is human now, if you want to do it, if you don't want to, you don't have to. Neither is this yours, nor is this ours; but ye now rule, and do not give unless ye will, and give, if ye have, that man within you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18530	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, you are welcome to correct the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18531	I refer to what my colleague Sadik Ahmetović said, therefore, there is no possibility of a business meeting some kind of college and a committee of telephones, it may be in the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure, this is not, therefore, what you said in an instant, is in your dissatisfaction. I also express my dissatisfaction with the fact that you are transferring your potential conflict, under the authority of Parliament, to the secretariats, to the employees of Parliament. I was a witness when you threatened a man, I warned you you couldn't threaten. I was a witness here half an hour ago when you said that. If he can't talk to you, I can tell you. So, I said, don't threaten. Did I tell you that, colleague? So you're looking for your right, but you can't threaten the Secretary of the House. I witnessed it, so don't talk like that. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18532	Please, the word has an honorable representative, please, the word has a distinguished representative, vice president, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18533	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any reason to be nervous. I'll put it this way, I fully understand every agent and independent club to get their own rooms. I've volunteered as a member of the Administrative Commission, but there's also no reason to be nervous by an agent who's taking a stand for someone who didn't have any other jurisdiction when it comes to solving this issue, but the one that he's shown to you here. I didn't experience the secretary holding on to an ancestor, either, but only to inform about what his job was. As far as the Administrative Commission is concerned, you know well as a representative, now colleague Lovrinović has said how the Committee works. For the basis of the Rules of Procedure, it is the Committee in common, it has, a colleague of Ahmetović, six MPs from one House and six envoys from another House, chairing the Committee is exactly a colleague from the House of Peoples. It's working properly and specifically, it's hard for him to come up with a situation to call on, but today could still be a normal proposal. I'll do it after this session, I'll call my colleague to urgently convene the Administrative Commission to give me a decision in accordance with the conclusion that we are in charge of the Department of the College of Homes in terms of finding this solution. I don't see any reason for tensions, for conversations like this. If someone thinks it's part of what we had as a feature today, I don't think it's a way to send in any political way, any other 54 connotations. We still need to be correct and concrete and for our own sake, and for respecting this House, for its dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18534	Thank you. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18535	As part of the time we live, the moon that is, let people move in today, and we'll make a decision. Well, we won't do anything wrong. It's one normal thing, it's not about detachment of material resources, it's about one thing. Uh, it's important what the secretary did, and the Service, they found space, there's a specific room. So what was, in a material sense, a problem was defined as space. We will verify as well as many other things we verify on the Commission. I suggest we give Dom an order to the secretary or ask the service of the people to move in, we make a decision. Nothing's a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18536	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 20.04.2017, which reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge that, no later than six months after the date of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, it is also in parliamentary procedure to deliver the Law on Cinematography of Bosnia and Herzegovina", issue: 01-50-1054/17 The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission responsible for considering this initiative. The competent Commission submitted its opinion on the initiative on 13/06 2017. The Commission has adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18538	The initiative was delivered on 20 April, the Constitutional Commission also discussed the initiative and supported it. Rare are the areas of human creation in Bosnia and Herzegovina where we can say that we are both at a European and world top such as cinematography. The least we can do, the minimum of all minimums, is at least adopt a law that will help these people be even better than they are. In that sense, not to extend the discussion further, given that the initiative itself is explained on the four pages, I call on Parliament to adopt this proposal. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18539	Thank you very much. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 18th agenda, Ad. 18. Consideration of Mladen Bosić's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 22.05.2017, which reads: "The Regulatory Agency for Communications is responsible for providing information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the results of the harmonisation of the prices of mobile telephony services in BiH with prices in the region and Europe, in line with the conclusions adopted at the 23rd session of the House, held on 12.01.2016.", issue: 01-50-1-1290/17 The House College has appointed the Transport and Communications Commission as competent to consider this initiative. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 12.06.2017. The Commission supported the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative, deputy chairman Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18541	I'll take a quick word for it. So you remember that this House has made a decision to order RAK to bring mobile phone operators' prices into line with mobile operators' prices in the environment and in Europe. Some shifts have been made in the past year. The analyses show that there is still a much higher price, i.e. a much higher price paid by citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina than citizens in Europe and in the environment, and I believe that Parliament should reconsider the situation and see how the situation is now. So the RAC is required to run an analysis of what was done at the conclusion of the House and then at one of the next sessions we have that agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18542	I'm closing the hearing because there are no more reports. Moving to point 19, Ad. 19. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an investigation committee of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the establishment of the spending of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Export and Credit Agency and the funds collected and intended for the construction of roads – Proposer: College of the House of Representatives, No: 01-50-1399/17, of 02.06.2017. On the basis of the proposal, which was adopted earlier, Mr Backović, the House of Representatives adopted a conclusion at the last session that requires the establishment of an investigative committee tasked with examining the spending of IGA funds and funds collected and intended road construction. A proposal for a conclusion on the formation of the Investigation Commission you've received. For members of the House College of Investigation in the extended composition, after consultations, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Predrag Kožul, 56 Nenad Lalić. I call on representatives of the other clubs to make their proposals, every political party can give, a club, one representative at a time. Here you go. Dear Representative Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18544	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I'm sorry, I'll be very brief. In fact, we may have missed it, but the conclusion itself is recklessly formulated because almost a year ago, the Ad hoc commission that examines the state of the IGA and which deals with the consumption of IGA funds. I think that this Commission should perhaps, if it is already decided to form, be related only to the spending of road construction funds, and as far as IGA is concerned, I suppose we will already have a report at the next session, a one-year report from this Commission that has indeed done a thorough job on the state and business of the IGA.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18545	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18546	It's not about correction, Mr. Mehmedović said exactly, but here it's not about what the Ad hoc commission was doing, it's about the flow, the banks, the interference of banks, guarantees, the flow of these guarantees, the realization, and then we don't have, as you know, for those 50,000 tons of steel, there's no VAT, there's no tax, there's nothing. So this is about a whole other thing, a whole other thing, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18547	Okay. Thank you. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18548	I thank the chairman. I propose Mr Backović to be a member of this Commission, since he was also a proponent of the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18549	Okay. Next, the other clubs? Mrs. Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, izvoljeti.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18550	We would also like to propose to our colleague, Damir Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18551	Okay. Thank you. Any other suggestions? 57 Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18552	Thank you very much. I propose Mr. Salko Sokolović on behalf of the Independent...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18553	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18554	I suggest Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18555	That's already proposed based on the consultation, I said. Any other suggestions? There are no reports. I'm closing the hearing. Moving to point 20, Ad. 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals, No: 01,02-50-14-1450/17, of 09.06.2017. At the last meeting of the House, we dismissed a member of the Office for Consideration of Appeals from the Order of Recognising Administrative Law Experts and/or Administrative Procedures. You've received a proposal for a conclusion. The House College suggests that the Joint Commission should be named Safer Demirović, Diana Zelenika and Borislav Bojić. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18557	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18558	Okay. Any further reports? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 21, Ad. 21. Commission report on the effort to reach agreement on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Education and Scientific Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (material No: 01,02-05-2-831/17, of 27.03.2017) 58 The House College, working as a commission, failed to reach agreement in granting approval for ratification. You've received a match report. There's no debate on this agenda point. Let's go to point 22, Ad. 22. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the granting of approval for ratification of the Protocol on cooperation in the field of education between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Turkey (material No: 01,02-05-2-999/17, of 12.04.2017)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18562	Thank you very much. Given that I had last time, and also today in the announcement, that is, in the debate on the agenda, asked to postpone the plea, then I had a meeting with the Minister of Human Rights, or the Minister, and then we talked and practically what I asked for last time, which is to give me some clarifications, I actually got in that conversation, and we agreed on two conclusions that I had already proposed. Namely, one conclusion would be – To oblige the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to step up activities to amend and supplement the Agreement on the takeover of the role of co-founders between the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH and the International Commission for Missing Persons. The second conclusion – To be in charge of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, is thought of the House of Representatives, to monitor the realization of the position (1) of the first conclusion. Namely, the result of the many objections we've had from people who are alive interested in this, which means, and that's the Missing Persons Commission, uh, we've come to some agreement on these conclusions, and I suggest that the House backs these two conclusions. Of course, in that case, I'm giving up on taking this off, the agreement is off the agenda, and I think today we should support the ratification of this Agreement. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18563	Thank you very much, Honorable Minister of Human Rights, Mrs. Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18564	Thank you. Well, here's the honourable representative Novaković explained, we really talked about this, but I saw in fact that there was a misunderstanding about the agreement he was now talking about, which Bosnia, which the Council of Ministers of BiH has concluded with the Commission for Missing Persons and This, and the accession of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to this agreement on the status of the Commission for Missing Persons as an international organisation. So it's two separate things. However, this is how he only urged the Ministry to continue a job that has begun, and today's agenda point is aimed at making the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina approach this Agreement because the organisation, as the Commission for Missing Persons has, in the meantime, grown into an international organisation whose status is confirmed by this Agreement and the countries which access this Agreement confirm, therefore, its status. Her status now as an international organisation is much wider than in the time when she was only doing jobs for the countries of the former Yugoslavia in search of missing persons, this one, in this region. This Agreement, of course, is something that goes separately within the framework of the Ministry of Human Rights and which we will approach in accordance with the request of this Commission to make certain amendments to this Agreement. Here's just an explanation for the other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18565	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18566	Thank you. Well, that's exactly what I was talking about at the last session, so this, uh, was founded in 2014 and that in 2016, the BiH Presidency adopted a Decision on the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the international organisation. And this confirms what I said last time, there's no need to delay, this sends a bad international message, it's completely, it's two separate things, here's not to say, completely two separate things. I'd like to see the suggestions of the conclusions Mr. Novaković suggested, I don't know if you delivered it in writing, uh, anyway, I hope we get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18567	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 24, 60 Ad. 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Montenegro in the European Union accession process, material No: 01,02-05-2-133/17, of 26.05.2017 You have received the opinion of the Commission in charge of external affairs. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 25, Ad. 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Funding Agreement (Policy in RS – B) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, material number: 01,02-05-2-13/17, since 29/05.2017
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18570	I'll just take a minute. Given that the total burden goes to the state, to the state, as well as to the current burdens that went to the state, so in international disputes when represented by the BiH Attorney's Office, the Attorney General doesn't say at any time that this burden has been made, the legal entity, the government of one entity, the government of the canton, and I don't know who, that they will suffer the consequences of them too... but the lawsuit is against the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There must be a modus when making these agreements, that the person who's in debt is burdened, because this is how we now have a situation where, you know, there's only one billion per project, and it's probably lost to the information that they have. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-06-14-1.u18571	Thank you very much. Before we move to the 26th agenda, I'd be obliged to give an hour's break to prepare the gym and go with that agenda point, now it's 7:00 p.m. as agreed. So, before I move to this agenda point, at the conclusion of the 25th point, and before I move to the 26th session, we continue with session 05.07. at 10:00, and after that will be, there will be a regular session. The seat is over. Session interrupted at 7:05 p.m.
