ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18593	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 49th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests we invite to each session are invited to this session today. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. Following an announcement from the Bosnia and Herzegovina Security Minister's office, Mr. Dragan Mektić, the session was to be attended by Deputy Minister of Security Mr. Mijo Kresic, however, Mr. Mijo Krešić justified today's lack of objective reasons. The absence from today's session was justified by representatives: Monika Tomić and Nenad Lalić. According to the Service's information, there are 38 representatives present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. I had a parliamentary question that I have already tried on several occasions to ask the Minister of Civil Affairs, and I am pleased that the Minister of Civil Affairs is present here, given that it is a matter which, at least in my deep conviction, is extremely important because it deals with the issue of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I must say, by the way, is in an extremely difficult and complex situation. The situation is becoming worse and worse every day, but simply from those political topics that are present in everyday life, the issue cannot come to Bosnia and Herzegovina's political scene. So, I'm interested, given that something approximately a year ago was published in the Official List, priority goals, when it comes to higher education and I think it's a very good document that speaks about the needs and objectives of higher education and there are seven of these points, but I am interested – Does the Ministry of Civil Affairs have feedback after a year on the effects of this decision published in the Official Journal? If he does, what are they, and if he has no intention of doing so, do they have any intention of responding? Thank you. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18595	Thank you. Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr. Adil Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18596	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Working Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs is preparing annually the Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the provisions of Article 42, under which this ministry is responsible for monitoring it. Taking into account the time since the adoption of the priorities for the development of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2016-2026, i.e. the entry into force of the Decision adopting the priorities of the Ministry of Civil Affairs' work programme for 2017 and thus the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Higher Education for the current year also includes a review of the implementation of those priorities. Preparation activities The information will begin at the beginning of August, as consideration by the BiH Council of Ministers is scheduled for the fourth quarter, after which we will be able to discuss the first effects of the action of the decision in question, i.e. implementation of priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18597	Thank you very much. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18598	I thank you for this answer, but, uh, I really expect to take this issue seriously, because every day the situation becomes more complex, it is unregulated, the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to higher education, the relations of state and private universities, the relationship of market and supply and demand, and all of these elements that negatively affect the development of higher education every day become more complex and I ask that attention be paid to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18599	Thank you. I give the word to the esteemed representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18600	My question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and reads, Decision of the BiH Presidency adopted at a session held on 25.05.2016, chaired by Bakir Izetbegović, international members of the BiH Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments have been excluded from this body established by aneks vi of the opšti Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This decision was made unanimously. aneks vi of the opšti Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina makes clear that the Commission consists of five members of which two international members, and that it makes decisions in a way that at least one international member must give consent. This Presidency Decision said that the decision was temporary and that 3 was valid until 30.05. I referred the issue to the High Representative, who unequivocally agreed with his reply that this Presidency decision is not in line with Annex VIII of the Framework Deton Agreement, the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that such a decision has brought into question the functioning of this extremely significant institution. Since the chairman in his exhibition stressed, among other things, and the work of this institution saying that the institutions in the field of culture, which I want to stress in particular, must not and will not be put on the sidelines because culture and sport are one of the most important brands of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At that time, the chairman, Zvizdić, said that more than 800 goods in Bosnia and Herzegovina were declared a national monument, more than 1,500 are waiting on a potential list of national monuments, but unfortunately still more than 70 monuments on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory have the status of endangered cultural monuments. I want to ask Mr. Zvizdić – Is he aware of this problem and has he taken any steps in the context of his promises from the exposé to overcome this problem? I remind you, on 30 May of this year, that Presidency decision expired. and that institution doesn't practically work anymore. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18601	Please stick to the time. Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18602	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished and respected members of the House of Representatives, respected colleagues from the Council of Ministers, respected media and guests, I welcome you all. I thank the distinguished representative Magazinović for the question, which is really important. I'm still standing behind everything I wrote and said in my exposé. Indeed, it is an extremely important institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina that has done a huge job in view of the degree of devastion and the threat of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cultural and historical heritage. Bosnia and Herzegovina is indeed ahead in the region and by number of monuments and national monuments, protected monuments, natural goods. The Commission has done a remarkable job, there is a full list of recognised monuments, a list of monuments still waiting for the complete procedure to be completed. And, here, given that the issue itself has not been specified that it is exclusively about this subject, I cannot say all the details at this point, well, here, if it agrees with the distinguished representative Magazinovićć I will send it to him very soon in writing, give him the position of both my and the Council of Ministers and give him a proposal for our next steps. In any case, the Commission is practically a Dayton category and in this sense we all have to respect it, regardless of the decisions of any other institution at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18603	Thank you. Commentary, MP Magainović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18604	I thank the chairman. I accept the proposal to give a written answer, agree with him that it's a Dayton category and that it's terrible what the Presidency did. I also agree with what he also said in the exposé that our relationship to the natural and cultural and historical heritage and culture must change in general, and I hope that these moves of the Presidency are not that change. When you answer to the chairman, please refer to the question whether one of the first decisions of the Commission in the absence of foreigners was to approve the construction of a business facility based on Taslihan behind Gazi Husrev's fugitive in Basharshi who could not get permission for years because the foreigners did not allow it? And is it true that the company that will either design or perform is connected to one of the members of the Commission? So people started when strangers left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18605	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18606	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. Thus, through the media, Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens are familiar with the "Croatian Woman" Livno affair. A lot of this has been learned through the media and some media have really gone into the topic and delivered all relevant data, but I am concerned by the Vjijeć Ministers as the most relevant body, which was also approved by 100,000 KM, as follows – Did the Decisions on the criteria for the grant of funds for the co-financing of projects of the institutions of culture in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016, the Association "Croatian Woman" Livno really meet all the criteria set out in this Decision? Why did the Association “Croatian Woman” Livno receive 100,000 KM and the Franciscan monastery of the Royal Sutjeska for the conservation and restoration of the books of the Franciscan monastery only 1,000 KM? What is the exact date on which the project “Croatian woman” Livno was launched and completed in its written notice, which was required to be delivered within 15 days of the date of conclusion of the contract? Have you received periodic and final reports on the dedicated spending of funds according to the narrative report form and the financial report form which forms part of the Law on the Budget of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. prescribed by this Act? What are you going to do as the Ministry since we are familiar through the media with the fact that the subject's name is applied for 100,000 KM denied these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18607	Thank you, my lady. Minister of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Osmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18608	Thank you, Chairman. The Association "Croatian Woman" Livno has applied for the grant of funds for the project "Sanation and Reconstruction" to preserve cultural and historical heritage in line with the Decision on the criteria for the grant of funds for co-financing of projects of the institutions of culture in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. The Commission discussed the application for allocation of funds in the field of culture, carried out the evaluation of the project, and made up a proposal for a decision adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers at a session held on 04.10.2016. The evaluation of the project is carried out according to the criteria and points set out in the evaluation form which is an integral part of the Decision on criteria. The Commission has a 5 discretionary right to assess any application according to the evaluation form, and the BiH Council of Ministers is making a final decision on the allocation of funds. In the beginning, the start of the project of the Association "Croatian woman" Livno was 01.10.2016 and the end of 31.12.208. The grant contract was signed on 23.01.2017 and the funds were recognised to the user on 27.01.2017. In April of this year, the user informed the ministry that they had not begun implementing the supported project. Two months later, the Association of Citizens "Croatian Woman" informed BiH's Ministry of Civil Affairs that they had given up the implementation of the project and requested a guidebook to repay the allocations. On 28.06.2017, the association returned the allocations to the Single Account of the Treasury, and evidence of the same payment card delivered to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18609	Thank you. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18610	Thank you to the Honorable Minister for following me with the technical details that I have already learned from the last answer, and that is exactly how I initiated this additional parliamentary question from that answer. However, I ask the Ministers that your services, according to this reply, deliver and write a reply to the Commission's report that evaluated the Association of Croatian Women, Livno with 100,000 marks, and the Royal Sutjesk, so you have not answered me why they received 1,000 KM, and the "Croatian woman" Livno 100,000 KM, so that from this Commission report which evaluated all applications could be made clear whether Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman, would continue to allocate funds to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the principle of who has a multi-ranked, multi-ranked person in a position within Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order that only those who have their backs within the Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18611	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Mirsad Isaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18612	I thank the chairman. I want to welcome everyone present and wish for the successful work of this session. My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and of course it could be signified to all those who have acted from 2004 to today. It reads – Why has the Council of Ministers never formed an inter-minister council that has played one of the key roles in the work of this Agency in accordance with the Law establishing IGA? A brief explanation: In the IGA work there are evident problems that have culminated in the last few years. Since a state agency tasked with enabling businesses to export easier and operate abroad, and the Law establishing the Export-Credit Agency of BiH provides for the establishment of an inter-minister council is unclear why this has not been done to date. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18613	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18614	Thank you. So, the Law establishing the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopted in 2004, has since changed four BiH Council of Ministers' calls since then. You are right when you say that Article 15 of the Law provides for the establishment of an inter-minister council as a kind of supervisory authority of the BiH Export-credit Agency and the Law provides, and it is very important to say that the Inter-minister Council is made up of the finance and vault minister of BiH, the foreign trade minister and the economic relations of BiH and two entity governments in the order of the ministers of the relevant ministries. As far as I know, virtually no Council of Ministers has formed an inter-minister council, and in this sense your finding is quite accurate, but as far as this Council of Ministers' call is concerned, we have already seen very clearly the problems that have clearly culminated lately when we talk about the Export-Credit Agency of BiH. We did not adopt their Report in '15, we did not adopt their Report for 2016, we did not adopt the report on the work of the Management Board, we did not adopt the Work of the Export Credit Agency, and we immediately informed the important Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And, as you know, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly established an investigative commission in May last year to determine the situation in the BiH Export Credit Agency. As a result, if we hadn't adopted the reports, I suppose that was the reason why the BiH Council of Ministers did not come up with a proposal from two resolution ministries on the establishment of an inter-ministrian council. And, of course, as soon as such a proposal arrives, and I have already said who makes up the Inter-minister Council and who can initiate the proposal for such a decision, it is clear that it will be discussed and approved by the Council of Ministers. But I must also say that for us, a very important role is played by the Parliamentary Assembly, which has shown its proper engagement by the formation of that Investigation Commission, so that we really expect that we are presented with the legal and factual state of affairs in this Agency, so that the Council of Ministers, in accordance with our respective competences, can make the right decisions, although practically, as you know, the founders of the virtually Export-Credit Agency are entities and they are actually those who have key management rights and who are using, of course, the Export-Credit Agency funds. So, we expect the results of the Commission's work, until then we have defined our views by not adopting the report, but what is certainly some form of Export-Credit Agency is needed by Bosnia and Herzegovina, and immediately after the investigation committee's report, we will give our proposal in which direction we should organise an institution that is important for all economic operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18615	Thank you very much. A comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18616	I thank the chairman. I am a member of this committee that he spoke of as the chairman of the Council of Ministers and surprises me so little because he does not mention the chair of the responsibility issue anywhere, this is a fundamental issue, a matter of responsibility. And on the other hand, when you talk about this Law in Article 7 15, it is interesting that you did not mention attitude (1) and attitude (3). I will read it – Director and Deputy, position (1), so the Director and Deputy Director of IGA are obliged to submit half-yearly information on the business of IGA to the Inter-minister Council, not the Council of Ministers. Therefore, on the one hand and position (3) – The Interministrian Council shall consider the information submitted and shall provide guidelines which, I underline, are binding on the work of the IGA. So, the full responsibility is on the inter-minister council, uh, the Council of Ministers doesn't even have to consider this, because, uh, this law doesn't say that the Council of Ministers, uh, exposes information and brings it. So it's completely absurd, and the question of responsibility is, in any case, the Agency and the Agency's management. What I want to say here is that it's very large amounts. The information is about several hundred million, so all we know is that it takes 160 million in pensioners in the Federation. So this is very serious information and very serious A serious question we should consider. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18617	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18618	The Honorable Chairman. My question is about the relationship between the former prime minister and the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vućić, towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I refer this issue to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić. Namely, we and the general public both know that Vučić participated in the siege of the capital of the internationally recognised Republic of BiH. It is known that in 1997, he made a scandalous statement in the Serbian Parliament that a Srbin needs to be killed by a hundred Bošnjak. In 2007, he set up a table titled "Bulevar Ratko Mladić“, in 2015 openly denied the final and binding decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH. In 2016, in the Serbian Parliament, I quote, Serbia said by means of the Dayton Peace Accords, it lost Bozuc, Ilidz, Rajlovac, Kupres, Grahovo. I ask the question how can Serbia lose something that it has never owned and that it will never own? All of these are, therefore, less known facts. What is unknown and that is the question to Prime Minister Zvizdić – On the basis of which arguments, Mr Zvizdić, you represent Vučić in a positive light and, as you say, he is a friend of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Maybe we don't have those arguments, so if it's possible to tell us what arguments you're saying he's a friend of Bosnia and Herzegovina?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18619	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18620	So it is quite clear that the Council of Ministers of BiH, on whose behalf I speak, is further developing good neighbourly co-operation with a focus on our first neighbours, especially Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro. And the development of good neighbourly co-operation must be based on the development of some of the most important priorities and sectors for all countries, such as, of course, economic co-operation, infrastructure co-operation, social co-operation, cultural co-operation, political co-operation, etc. And we remain fully committed to this kind of co-operation in order to create conditions for the 8 reconciliation processes which, of course, must be based on true, relevant, historical facts, but also on processes that will mean further integration of the region, which, of course, does not endanger the individual progress of each of the Western Balkan countries towards European integration, but means an increase in external trade, means joint appearances in third markets and means better co-operation in the fields of culture, education and all other types of social activities. As legalists, we respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity and legally elected authorities and officials of our neighbouring countries. It is our duty and duty to work with them to protect, of course, constitutional order, sovereignty and integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And in that sense, I think that, I'm talking about the last two years, that this co-operation is going on the way up and that, of course, there have been no official moves or activities that would significantly, or in any way, compromise what I've been talking about, and of course, it's about sovereignty, territorial integrity and international legal subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given that both we here and our neighbours should respect the BiH Constitution and the common Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18621	Thank you. A comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18622	Talk and co-operation yes, but presenting people who are not well-intentioned towards Bosnia and Herzegovina as friends of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it's a good policy. Our proven friends in Serbia are people like Nenad Čank, Sonja Biserka, Nataša Kandić, Čedomir Jovanović, and we can tell those people, and similar to them, that they are friends of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Vučić has not shown this by any concrete action yet. He continues to deny legal planetarily, at the International Court a proven genocide, for his time, the legalised genocide movement, he continues to deny the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court, and he really does not deserve any official of Bosnia and Herzegovina to call him a friend. The fact that we need to talk, it's clear to us, but I think that communication should take care of how and how some politicians are referred to. To finish, Vučić's rhetoric changes, but he hasn't changed his temper.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18623	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18624	I thank the chairman. Some of them don't change rhetoric or whims, but I won't deal with some of the past things we'll never agree on, it's clear who's putting these things down here in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My question concerns the present and the future of Bog. Since we have learned from the media that it seems that the Independent System Operator has committed serious illegalities and corrupt acts, I know that the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers has no direct jurisdiction, but in my question I have asked him to gather information. These illegalities 9 can only be paid by the citizens of this country, in order to cover another corrupt affair, to pay through a new increase in electricity prices. On 5 June, the Independent System Operator adopted a Decision on a loan debt of 2,300,000 for the purpose of purchasing a business space for the purpose of building the Reserve Management Centre. They previously issued a public call for the purchase of space with a very strange condition, saying it is 300 meters from the Promenade on the Palace, right there. And look at the wonders, there's only one building that meets that condition. I am interested, and I would ask the chairman if he had gathered information to tell us – did Derk approve this credit assignment? If not, what measures have they taken to stop the illegal behaviour of NOS and to break the Law establishing NOS? In what way will this loan be returned, given that the NOS budget is based on a tariff approved by the Derk, and the financial resources through the tariff are accepted on the basis of the real and approved costs accepted by the Derk? Has the Decision on Credit Liabilities been agreed by NOS owners, entities that exercise their ownership rights through the Management Board, i.e. whether members of the Governing Board had the consent of entity governments in their voting and whether or not a draft on whether the NOS needs a reserve centre of such scope, given the development of information and telecommunications technologies and whether that elaborate has been approved by the Derk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18625	Thank you very much. The word has the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18626	Thank you very much. Thank you to the distinguished representative Pandurević for asking. Although, in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, it is intended to ask only one short question I will answer this question because it is a matter which is sub-nationally divided and is related to the same topic. Before that, I must say that I, too, am amazed at certain norms and solutions on some of the laws adopted before this Council of Ministers of BiH, which I would never personally vote for, because I think they put the Council of Ministers in a completely unequal and incorrect position, and so this law in which we serve only as a mailbox, in which entities put their own desires and we vote out their wishes and names and the Board of Directors, is the same thing in the Council of the Medicines, etc., so that I am still very surprised that such legal solutions could be accepted at all and that such an incorrect position of the Council of Ministers has been placed in that position. I've collected all the answers to these questions. There are almost seven or eight pages of answers here, I don't have time, of course, to read it all, I'll deliver it to you in writing, but I'll only read the most important parts for each of the sub-questions. Therefore, it is European practice that the transmission system operator has a reserve control centre for the potential inaccessibility of the Main Control Centre, which can occur during specific events such as certain disasters, technical problems or potentially terrorist and other attacks. The reserve control centre offers the same functionality where it must not be in the same building from the Main Sea, i.e. it must be geographically separate. Interconnection, the dependence of the electricity system, conditioned the development of common rules to be applied, both in the European Union and the Energy Community, and thus Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the Directives and regulations of the Third Energy Package such as Directive 2009/72 on common rules for the internal market in electricity or Regulation 714/2009 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchange of electricity. With regard to your first sub-question – did the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity Derk approve this credit responsibility, the answer is that Derk did not approve a credit responsibility for the purchase of the facility, i.e. the premises of a business building for the needs of the Reserve Centre. Under the current legal frameworks, Derk has no jurisdiction to sanction the possible illegal behaviour of NOS, i.e. in violation of the Law establishing an independent operator of the transmission system system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and unfortunately there is no Council of Ministers in... solutions. If he had a reaction, we'd react right now. Your second sub-question – how this loan will be returned, given that the NOS budget is based on the rate approved by the Derk, and the financial resources through the tariff are accepted on the basis of the real and approved costs accepted by the Derk, the answer is that according to the Derk Methodology for making tariffs for electricity transmission services of the Independent Operator and the system of auxiliary tariffs for the operation of the Independent System Operator is intended to cover the costs of NOS work resulting from the activities of the prescribed member... Law establishing an independent transmission system operator in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I note that the law in those members, i.e. throughout the text, recognises only the Central Control Centre but does not mention the Reserve Control Centre. Therefore, it is not known how NOS managing authorities, since they have not been granted this approval, are planning to repay this loan which would be used to invest activities that are not covered by the Law. With regard to your third sub-question, whether the consent to the Credit Liaison Decision has been granted by NOS owners, i.e. entities, the answer is that it is not known at this time. Although Derk sent a letter to entities not known at all, nor did anyone get an answer as to whether the entity's governments agreed on a credit debt, and it is also not known whether the Federation of BiH government has passed any act relating to the Reserve Centre of Management. And finally, the fourth sub-question – whether or not an emborate on whether the NOS needs a reserve centre of this scope, given the development of information and telecommunications technologies, and whether or not this elaborate was approved by the Derk, the answer is that no elaborate on the Reserve Control Centre, or any document that would present its scope or technical characteristics,... and the dynamics of the establishment of the funds themselves. I will, of course, provide you with a broader answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18627	Thank you very much. The answer lasted longer than three minutes, and we didn't deliberately interrupt the Council of Ministers' Chairman, we don't think we should do that when it comes to the head of the Council of Ministers, but I would ask that, uh, we stick to that time. Commentary, distinguished representative Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18628	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'd like you to deliver it to me in writing. I will say one more thing, the government of Republika Srpska was that the reserve centre 11 should be on the territory of the town of East Sarajevo which, and their position in the public invitation... is narrowing down to Pale. If we have in mind who got this, or which building has met the conditions, when we see who the members of the NOS Management Board are, I'm afraid we have some serious business here for the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that this is about partial crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18629	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Diana Zelenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I warmly welcome all present in the hall. According to the name of the television show of the UN-San canton that says - let's buy our home, build Bosnia and Herzegovina, my question is focused on the Council of Ministers, more specifically the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and I'm asking it on behalf of the farmer. The question is: What did the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, do to improve the situation of farmers, i.e. agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in view of the requirements of farmers who pointed out through their associations and in the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, and in view of the introduction of the preambles to imports of agricultural products, restrictions on imports of seasonal fruit and vegetables when domestic products are sufficient on the market, introducing stricter controls on imports of agricultural products, given that imports of very non-quality products, i.e. products that cannot pass on the European Union market and ending on our market? If your response would mean banning or restricting the introduction of measures to protect domestic production, calling for signed international contracts by Bosnia and Herzegovina, then I demand that I be specifically cited by international contracts that prevent the introduction of measures to protect domestic production, i.e. provisions that prohibit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18631	Thank you. Do we have a representative of the Council of Ministers for Response? There isn't. Then we won't get an answer to this question. Let the Rules of Procedure be followed against this question. Dear Representative Damir Arnaut has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18632	Thank you. The matter of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Since the beginning of May, I have been trying to answer the question from your Minister of Human Rights, Mrs Borovac, which is the position of the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers on the statements made by the head of the Sarajevo Municipality of Novi Grad about who or may not be Bošnjak, which includes pseudo-science claims such as those from the darkest times of the European continent. After several attempts, the minister replied that the ministry, I quote, is not responsible for taking views on such statements and that, again, I quote – there is no obligation to launch activities for human rights violations, closed quote. 12 Since this approach fully deviates from the access of sister ministries in the region, as well as that the official concerned had similar statements on other categories such as, quote it – most women working through women’s organisations in public communication show an extremely high dose of frustration. I think it's mostly about different personal frustrations that are further increased through women's organisations, and then they're trying to treat each other by acting in public space. Chief of the New Town Municipality. Now, given that your exposure is one of the priorities, on page 7, I quote - insurance of citizens' equality and, again, quote - the abolition of every form and type of discrimination and segregation, side 26 of your exposé, and your Minister of Human Rights says that this is not the jurisdiction of its ministry, my question is then – Is anyone in the Council of Ministers working on these priorities from your exposé and, if so, what does it do in terms of attitudes such as these commissioners of that municipality? Thank you. The question of the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18633	Thank you very much. So, as far as I can tell, will anyone from the Council of Ministers give an answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18634	I asked the Chairman of the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18635	Okay. So I ask the MPs to speak when they get the word, and everyone who has the right to the Rules of Procedure will get the word. So we do not have an answer at this time from the Council of Ministers and I ask that it be handled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18636	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18637	Here, you have a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18638	Mr. Chairman, so don't at least rape the Rules of Procedure now. I asked the oral question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Rules of Procedure more than 24 hours in advance. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is here, I want it to be written that he refuses to give an answer, as the Rules of Procedure says – unless the answer to the session at which the oral question is asked is to give the oral answer at the next session of the House provided for oral questions. Therefore, there is no answer here in writing, nor can the chairman run away from this issue. I insist on the answer. What's the problem? This is from your Xpose, pages 7 and 26. You've been asked more than 24 hours in advance, Mr. Chairman, about the things you promised in this exposé, and I insist on this answer. Last week, I attended a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I took this opportunity to introduce my partners, including members of the PSC, rapporteur for Bosnia and Herzegovina and officials of the Council of Europe, to all these facts, including 13 of those shocking responses to the alleged incompetence of the resolution minister. I'm told it's well different from the pink picture of the state of human rights it represents, and it seems pink color... whether it's an economic situation, an unemployment rate, or even human rights. [[Employee is warned on time]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I insist that I receive an oral response at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18639	Thank you very much. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We can't, we can't right now, we're done, uh... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18642	I didn't say, of course, that I refuse to answer and don't put such findings on my behalf. There's no need to get excited, you'll get an answer at the next session, but we'll determine who's going to answer ahead of the Council of Ministers. Whoever is in charge will answer that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18643	Thank you very much. I ask to be treated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when it comes to this matter. The word has a respected representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18644	The Honorable Chairman. My question is addressed to the Minister of Security. I can see he's not here, but I expect someone from the Ministry to give an answer. The question is, for the past few years, we have been able to track the fate of de-certified police officers and authorised officials from police structures – Is this problem solved, and have the working-law status of these persons been resolved? One brief explanation: Since 1998, it has been the agony of de-certified officials. Some are permanently deprived of the right to work.../not understood because the chairman of Džaferović speaks at the same time/... temporarily. Since it is about living people who have families, and according to many, and many people have done a terrible injustice, it is necessary to check how they live today, where they are and how they have been resolved working-law status. Some of them we remember when they strike hunger in front of the OHR. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18645	Thank you very much. Do we have a response from the Council of Ministers? Do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18646	Well, here, I expect an answer at the next session... [[is not understood because of Chairman Jaferovic]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18647	All right, thank you very much. So, oral response. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18648	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question is addressed to the foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr. Šarović. Namely, failing to adopt the Law on Trieste and Transport of Electricity and Gas at the state level of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been sanctioned by the Energy Community. The Energy Community called on the European Commission, through sanctions given, to consider the need to continue investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of electricity. Extending sanctions for Bosnia and Herzegovina means continuing the ban on access to all EU funds to support the energy sector as well as the funds provided under the Berlin Process as well as some other international institutions. In short, hundreds of millions of euros have already been lost irrevocably due to the failure to adopt the law. Since the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is responsible for this area, I ask the Minister – When this legislative solution will be referred to the parliamentary procedure and why thank you has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18649	Thank you very much. So, in relation to this question, as far as I can see, Mr. Šarović is not here, he will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18650	Well, commentary, I expect that next session will be this, get an answer to this question. But what I'm saying is, here's what you can see by not adopting such legal solutions to Bosnia and Herzegovina is losing those grants. It's already millions of marks, and here, because of the lack of money, we in Bosnia and Herzegovina are starting a story, like, so on. some new financial medicines such as excise duty, etc. Therefore, we must be up-to-date, do our part of the job, and try to get to such legal solutions as quickly as possible so that we can use these European Union funds. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18651	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18652	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Chairman, Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question is addressed to the ministry led by Mr. Šarović, who is not here today, but I will still ask the question because of the currentity of the moment – What activities is being taken by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to help the producers of raspberries in Bosnia and Herzegovina to the quality of production and exports? We are aware of the fact that desperate rabbles are in the whole state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Malinisation as a development opportunity in Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture is of paramount importance. It's only this year that 30,000 tons of raspberries are expected. Bosnia and Herzegovina is the eighth in the world to produce raspberries. Making sure that 60,000 producers of producer and buyer coordination are needed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is necessary to regulate this sector at the state level, regardless of the entity's competences, because producers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina are not united. It is necessary to improve organic production, create a strong network of consultants and quality control systems necessary. And that's state jurisdiction, at least the state level can do it. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina can and must be involved in the activities of entity ministries and assistance, both advisoryly and quality control, as well as the final branding of the Bosnian Herzegovina raspberries as a final product to be frozen, packed and carried out as a final product, not to be exported to Croatia and Serbia that repack it and charge 4.5 marks up to 5 marks for 400 grams of the almost frozen product. So the price would then be 10 to 12 marks of finished product. Why don't we do it in Bosnia and Herzegovina to make it our brand. And it is necessary to allocate incentives for the final processing of products and branding with a view to increasing profits. My question is also an appeal to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, a re-appeal, please make a final list of immaterial cultural heritage in terms of branding Bosnian Herzegovina products within which food and agricultural products are. Their branding will allow their competitiveness on the market, exports and recognition of over a famous Bosnian Herzegovina product. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18653	Thank you very much. Do we have a response from the Council of Ministers to this question or do we wait? So, the answer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is at the next session of the Registrar. Do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18654	...that this Ministry and the chairman of the Council of Ministers will take whatever is in their... 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18655	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18656	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome everyone present. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Since the minister is not here today and that answers to all questions cannot be received on the commission either, not just me, and the other members, because we don't have the Ministry, it doesn't actually happen or rarely happens that the minister is present, here I am using myself to ask questions here. I'll set them up even though I know I'm not going to get an answer, not just because the minister isn't here, but because, in a comment, I'm going to point out a new practice to answer us as it came from the Ministry. So the questions are very simple, they could have been orally answered, in November last year I asked why, in November of last year, I asked about the marking of border crossings and the setting, by setting traffic signals. Tourist season is ongoing or is it ongoing, I ask – Is any of it done, and the funds are secured and the project documentation is completed? They could have answered me yes or no. The second question is – What activities of the Ministry of Transport and Communications has taken place in relation to disputes, I mean the Treaty, of the Defence Department, related to the Centre for Education from the Northern Brieg, which is a masterly involved in the professional training of carriers and drivers, and does the Ministry of Transport and Communications pay 5% of the funds it has from the total amount of money that carriers and drivers need to pay to the Centre for Education in the Shiroki Brijeg? He could also have been a brief answer. Whether it's anything, or whether or not the Ministry has done about the funds, it's 1.13 million KM collected the certification of carriers in the international transport of passengers and goods which was subsequently blocked in the sub-account of the Outer Chamber of Commerce? [[Embassy is warned on time]] And fourth – Is the Ministry anything or has what taken place in accordance with the BiH Court's ruling regarding the approval of vehicles, parts, devices, equipment, since this slavem dates back to the time of the term of Minister Damir Hadžić?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18657	Thank you very much. So, here I don't see a minister, is there anyone from the Council of Ministers who will answer this question? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So here we have that will be delivered in writing. Here's a comment. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18659	... time to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18660	...of course use your time to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18661	Before this session we received, a very interesting, identical text, by my colleague Šepić on his question addressed to them and I also, that he will answer us in writing. I don't know what this is for. Since it is very difficult to get questions from them, the quality Club of the DF will in the next period, for the next session, initiate a thematic session concerning the accumulated problems in this portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18662	Thank you very much. In any case let it be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that means next time the answer, orally you're looking, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18663	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18664	So, next, for the next session...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18665	... says it'll be in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18666	So, for the next one, it will be as Parliament decides, and how did the Rules of Procedure, therefore, predict, for the next session the oral answer, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18668	So please nice. Representative Senad Šepić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18669	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I asked you a question in time, you have it here in my acts, I received a reply this morning that it could not be answered, uh, by the Council of Ministers, that we could not have an answer at this time today because they needed additional time. It's about questions I've been asking for two years. And why it doesn't suit me, and why I don't accept that 18 of us have some kind of, what's called, a written answer, is the reason we have this deadline. A joint meeting of the government of the Republic of Croatia and Vijac ministers should be held next week, as far as I am informed. You know that I have repeatedly initiated here to be initiated, i.e. to ask for the maintenance of such a session so that, among other things, we can address issues concerning the electoral unit from which I come and concern a large number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and therefore I ask you today, given that we do not have a minister, so that we hear from the chairman of the Council of Ministers – što is in preparation for this session done by these initiatives that I have previously submitted, and it concerns three of these basic issues: First is the solving of traffic and congestion at the border crossing of the UN-San canton and the retegorisation of small-scale crossings of Tržačka Rastela, Zagrad and Hadjin Potok in border crossing for international traffic of people and goods. I'm not gonna repeat my argument. I've talked about it a lot so far. The second is putting into function the Uni railway. And the third is the realization of Bosnia and Herzegovina's conclusions on the construction of the Shop Gora dump. So this issue and these issues are so current and they are so important and for a large number of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they're too important for the whole country, there's no room for something special right now, we're texting, we're sending some, some written answers to each other. I know Minister Jusko has already done something about it, I know that Minister Crnadak has also, uh, had talks with his colleagues in Croatia, and I thank these people for their engagement, but unfortunately nothing concrete has yet to be completed. So I ask you to take this opportunity, a joint session with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to put this on the agenda and to inform this Parliament and the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina about the final results and the final resolution of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18670	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18671	Thank you. I will give a very short answer although I do ask that, in future sessions and in the follow-up of our work, we make very clear, i.e. the Secretary of the House of Representatives, whether only one or more different questions can be asked by the Rules of Procedure. So, I will only answer three completely different questions this time because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure. The answers to the questions are positive, i.e. on the basis of what the distinguished representative Šepić said, it was included in the agenda of our joint session, which will be held on Friday 7 July, the issues of opening the border crossing of Tržačka Rastela, Korudnski Ljeskovac, as well as the implementation of the Treaty on Borders, other border crossings between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, as well as the border traffic agreement, with focus, probably at Hadjin Potok in the first stage. As far as the area of transport infrastructure is concerned, a question already raised by Minister Jusko, which is a matter of putting into office cross-border railway crossings and the function of the UN railway. And the final point of the agenda will be, of course, the construction of the waste dump of low and medium radioactivity of the Municipality of Trgovska Gora – Dvor, Republic of Croatia. We have, of course, the conclusions, they will be very clearly specified and presented. I hope that we will make decisions that will also be acceptable to our 19 neighbours Republic of Croatia, and will protect, of course, Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of any cross-border bad influence in the area of environmental protection. I must point out that unfortunately, we have only updated these issues now, although the Spatial Plan of Croatia, which specifies this location for the disposal of nuclear waste, was adopted for the period 2008-2013. So, the large number of MPs sitting in this House today have been informed already in '08, '09, '10, '11, 12 and '13. and no one has ever asked any question, nor has anyone ever launched any initiative until today. Now that we've launched that initiative, of course, she has to be urgent. If we had responded in time when the Space Plan was adopted, while at the same time in Sisak County there is no location envisaged for nuclear waste but exists in the Space Plan of Croatia, we would not be in this situation today if we had to literally put the fire out on this issue. So, if we had responded in time over the last six years, it would have been quite different, but here, we will react now and expect, of course, that our neighbours will accept our argument and that from the Space Plan, this location will be excluded as a possibility for the disposal of nuclear waste at all. At the same time, we will continue to do so, now and officially through the Republic of Slovenia, because according to the international provisions of the contract of the countries from which the waste is exported from the sea, we will in some way agree with the position of the country near which that waste is deposited. So I think these are all arguments that are on Bosnia and Herzegovina's side and I hope they will be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18672	Thank you very much. So, business provision one question – two minutes. It's a provision of Rules of Procedure that makes clear things, everything else is beyond that. You have a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd be the happiest, since I've asked one question more than once, I'd be luckiest if we'd had this settled by now, so I wouldn't have had to talk about this at all today by who knows which time. I have to tell you that in some way even myself, as I say, I'm getting tired of all this, but I'm not gonna stop until these questions are settled. This is optimistic that you have said, so I am pleased to have it in this sense at the session, I hope that this session will be held, and if there is an additional argument, if there is any additional pressure, some, as I would say, appeal from here in this House, you tell us, that the more we strengthen the position of the Council of Ministers and all of you sitting there, so you do a good job for this country and all of its people, because in fact without one such approach, an active relationship, a correct, fair, this Parliament and government I know that we can't do a job. But also, therefore, your answer, on your part, should be much faster, much more effective, much more responsible if we want that result to be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18674	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić has a word. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18675	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues have already asked the question that I have announced, but given the importance of the same, I would like to reiterate and highlight it. We all know that in the past month, there has been a very strong problem in connection with the production of raspberries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, caused by the announcement of the buyer and the exporter of the strawberry fruit that the final purchase price of the raspberries in this year will be the mark and a half. This announcement, of course, has upset and hit all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's raspberries producers who have found the possibility of self-employment and the amount of income they need for life in the past few years in this production. Malin producers made it clear and unequivocal, through the Federation of strawberry fruit producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the price of the stamp and the half, published in the Association of Buyers and Exporters of the Federation of BiH's strawberry fruit, is unacceptablely low, and that it will, unless the production of raspberries in Bosnia and Herzegovina is changed. Since conflicting information is coming from the field on the retail market at European level, and it is not safe to determine what caused the disturbance in the production and purchase of raspberries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in line with the objective of retaining and saving this agricultural production as a chance to increase employment and general conditions for creating income and improving the quality of life in rural areas, I am asking the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers who are voting – Has the Council of Ministers considered the Information on the current problems of the producer of raspberries in relation to the announced, by the buyer, unacceptablely low price of raspberries in this year, and what will the Council of Ministers take to save the production of raspberries in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as improving the sustainability and competitiveness of this prospective production of strawberry fruit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18676	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18677	Thank you. Here, although the resolution minister is not here, I will give a brief answer, that he will prepare for the Council of Ministers, which is tomorrow, one information with which we will, of course, introduce you both in oral and written form, but I want only here to underline a few very important things, because all the time in this way we are asking questions we are creating confusion within producers, business communities and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina because we are constantly mixing competences. So we really need to stick to the powers of the BiH Council of Ministers. You, as Parliamentary Assembly, extend our competences to us, give us the jurisdiction of all these tasks and then, of course, you have the right to ask what we have done, and we have the obligation to do so. Therefore, the issue of market-price policy and the policy of fostering agricultural production is, not the Council of Ministers, but entity ministries. So we don't have any information during the growing season, production quantities, prices, ways of buying agricultural products, etc. We are very willing to assist in accordance with the powers of the Council of Ministers, in particular we will contribute to ensuring coordination, coordination, application and monitoring of agricultural regulations, but we cannot dictate buying-in prices and subsidies. In order for these powers to be perfectly clear, if you think otherwise, I suggest that 21 Parliamentary Assemblys now make a decision and order entity governments to increase the price of raspberries and to 100% increase subsidy prices for strawberry production, and that things will be resolved. I also do not accept the answer in which it will be said that the Parliamentary Assembly is not competent to do so, because then we are in contradiction. The Council of Ministers is asked to do something that is not competent, and the Parliamentary Assembly cannot order it. So, let's stick to jurisdiction. We will do everything in our power, we find that question extremely important. The production of raspberries is one of the fastest growing industries and production in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 7% of total world production of raspberries is produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are among six countries of the world by the production of raspberries. Unfortunately, there has been an enormous increase in the production of raspberries in Poland and therefore destabilization of opportunities on the market for the production and purchase of raspberries. Otherwise, only Poland and Serbia are in our region and Europe ahead of us by production. Our production is about 25 to 30 thousand tonnes, Serbia is somewhere around 100, Poland is over 300, 320 thousand. So we take care of it, we'll have information, we'll do everything, but what's really in line with our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18678	Thank you very much. A comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18679	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for their response. Of course, I understand the competences and I have spoken to the citizens myself to explain the situation in which the Parliamentary Assembly does not have a concrete opportunity to react at the moment in question, and that something more significant is changing in a short time. However, when I made an insight into the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, in Article 2. ... the sector, the sector of agriculture, nutrition and rural development includes, well under point (i) trade in agricultural and food products, internal and external. And that's where the citizens want the state to protect them, the citizens say -- we want the state to protect us, they don't care at all about jurisdiction. But of course, we must take into account the overall constitutional structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But given the current problem, our responsibility and our obligation to respond in due time to save a large number of jobs created by self-employment and financial investment by our citizens in the past production of raspberries and raised plantations where, we need to know, we have spent significant I propose that the Council of Ministers take action as promised by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Article 2 point (i) and Article 7. Agriculture, Food and Rural Development Act approaches the regulation of trade in these agricultural products [[Employee is warned on time]] and in doing so, I mean internal and external trade as prescribed. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18680	Thank you. So, we're going to answer this question, and today, colleague Kapetanović has also asked that question, and we're going to get it in the next session orally. In any event, information should be prepared and each under his jurisdiction to do what his business is to assist agricultural producers. 22 In this way, we, dear colleagues and colleagues, are done asking questions. We're moving on to the agenda now. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. The following are added to the agenda: point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. (second reading) Point 16. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01,02-34-1-1590/17, dated 30.06.2017. Point 17. Consideration of the resignation of Mirza Milišić as a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency Council, issue: 01,02-29-1556/17, of 23.06.2017 and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the duties of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, Act No 01,02-29-1556/17, of 03.07.2017. Point 18. Information on the protection of the property of the owner of the old foreign exchange savings laid down in Slovenian and Serbian banks, and all in accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg in Case 60642/09 Ališić and Others - Proposers of the point: MEPs Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica and Denis Bećirović, material number: 01-50-1497/17, from 14.06.2017, as we decided at the previous session, is that we get the conclusions and vote on them. Point 20. Confirmation of decisions of the BiH Presidency (Act of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: P-OV-07-03-10-9-47/17, of 2106.2017 and material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 17-50-11948-6/17, of 06.06.2017: (a) Review of the BiH Presidency Decision, issue: 01-50-11948/17, of 26.05.2017 and (b) Review of the BiH Presidency Decision, issue: 01-50-1-1948-3/17, of 26.05.2017. We have, therefore, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18681	I thank the chairman. Article 71 and 72, which speak of additions and amendments to the agenda and the 72nd adoption of the agenda, is a very clear procedure, you know, I don't need to repeat it. With this in mind, we have here, received from the service a document on which the 49th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH was adopted. I would like to point out that the agenda has not been adopted and is definitely not adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now I don't know if this is some kind of prejudge attempt, given that it looks like we're going to have a lot of announcements, or suggestions to supplement the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18682	Thank you very much. Secretary, please give an answer. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18683	Good afternoon, everyone. I see, we've noticed here, it's a technical error. So you need to delete this word “adopted. ” It hasn't been adopted yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18684	Let's move on. So, the debate on the agenda. Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18685	Thank you very much. I propose that a new agenda with the name – Information on the implementation of earlier conclusions and initiatives on the establishment of the lowest guaranteed price and the safe purchase of agricultural products in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and a proposal for a response to these initiatives, be included in the agenda of this session today. A brief explanation: So, the last days have been particularly relevant to this topic. My colleagues have already mentioned, uh, some of my colleagues have mentioned this dissatisfaction, justifiable dissatisfaction, a raspberries producer because of the blackmail and interest rates of certain buyers and the unacceptably low price for the purchase of these agricultural products. Since this relationship is repeated, as is known here in the Parliamentary Assembly, I have repeatedly proposed to establish the lowest guaranteed price and to include on the other hand in order to secure a secure ransom for those products it encourages. This is no news here for Bosnia and Herzegovina, these are situations in all developed countries that have agriculture, they deal with agriculture, no agriculture can develop anywhere without the state ensuring the minimum that people can develop, that they can plan, that they can devote themselves to working on the ground instead of spending their time searching for, chasing their rights and fighting against some blackmailers, lenders, redeemers, anyone. So with that in mind, I am, here I support earlier initiatives, or earlier conversations in this sense, which one of my colleagues has already mentioned. So, and briefly to comment, since the chairman of the Council of Ministers has already said about jurisdiction. We know the competences, but if we think in a way that we accept this area and give it an answer that we can give as a Parliamentary Assembly and as a Council of Ministers, the area of accession to the European Union is with us. There's a lot of questions out there that are about direct agriculture, so we can treat them like that. Export policy, the protection of manufacturers, the protection of taxpayers, are all, say, issues, competences which, as a state, we have and the possibility, and we have an obligation to answer on the other hand. The establishment of a strategy for the development of agriculture is an obligation to be made by the state. If on that side, let's say, we get involved, and we have an active role I doubt that even one entity will have space, have the opportunity to refer to it, I would say, uh, negatively, that it refuses, that it is not involved in resolving this issue. But the initiative we need to show from here is necessary and that is why I invite you to take advantage of today's session, a situation that can't wait for another month or two days, etc. And since there are already initiatives that I have endured for the past two years, take a look at the archives of the proposals that I have given 24 so far, give us information and an answer on what has been done so far on this issue. And there's, say, a concrete suggestion on how to get out of this problem. I suggest that in that sense, here and I call upon my colleagues to support the inclusion of this new agenda item. [[Employee is warned on time]] This will help many people in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18686	Thank you very much. The word has a representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18687	Thank you, Chairman. I have two interventions about today's agenda. First, since after all the tragedies, accidents and humiliations of Srebrenica's mother, they even experienced yesterday, even if they were stoned, I suggest the College of the House of Representatives take a break and that the College determines that today's agenda is extended with information about what really happened yesterday in Srebrenica. I think it's the least we can do as Parliament. If the Honorable Chairman has no consensus in the College for the Enlargement of the Agenda, then it remains for me to appeal to you, as a man who certainly has an understanding of the issue, to try to initiate at the next session of the College to be the point of the agenda of the next session of the House of Representatives. And second intervention, regardless of what criteria you've set the agenda points to, however, because of the specific situation and topic, I would suggest that point 13 relating to the National Security Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina which should identify all the challenges and threats to Bosnia and Herzegovina's security including, of course, the problem of terrorism, that we put it today as the first working point, i.e., immediately after the minutes and issues as the third item of the agenda, to adopt it unanimously today at the House and send a serious message to both Bosnia and Herzegovina and abroad that we are ready to face these problems in a system way, in the way that all other countries in Europe do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18688	Thank you very much. Representative Amir Fazlić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18689	Given the debate on the agenda and given the agenda as set up by the College, I am looking for a 20-minute break in the Party of Democratic Action Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18690	So we have to finish discussing the agenda. When the agenda ends, then we'll be able to get a break, now we can't give Amire, Mr. Fazlić pause. That's what we did last time, and that's how it's gonna be. Uh, let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18691	I thank you, Your Honor, for the chairmanship. On behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, I propose extending the agenda to today's session, here we have suggested that this is point 13, may be any one, which reads: The adoption of the conclusion "The House of Representatives of Parliament temporarily suspends MP Nikola Špirić from the seat of the chairman of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency until the Commission's statement on media allegations that he committed counterfeiting the Commission's conclusions". I do not know if you have been able to see, however, many portals in our country announced last night, and today, media news that the OBA Supervisory Commission, or Mr Špirić, has sent certain conclusions to Intelligence and asked for some information without having adopted it at all by the members of the Commission. So, if these media inscriptions are correct, I'm not going into it, there's been a serious abuse of authority, and it's particularly worried about what's going on there about trying to actually get some information on the famous mouth affair that we know a report has been submitted, at least from the media again, to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and then there's some indication that someone might be trying to interfere with the justice investigation. We therefore believe that Mr Špirić, if this is true, that the Commission should report to us, perhaps this is not true, we are not going into whether or not this is true, and that Mr Špirić could not influence the Commission's decision to take from the chairmanship, that he is merely suspending himself from the presidency of the Commission while the Commission tells us whether this is true what we have read in the media or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18692	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, I apologize, therefore, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18693	It could have been a replica, but it's about the Rules of Procedure. So, it's not a disputed initiative, Col. Pandurević, it's not disputed that this was one turbulent session and it's not disputed that there's been a lot going on and there's probably a big problem. We also have no problem in supporting this in Parliament, but the concept of suspension itself cannot be found in the Rules of Procedure. So just frame your initiative in a way that we can support it. If you have a motion for a shift, to replace the chairman, change one, choose another, however we can only frame it into something that fits the Rules of Procedure, because if we go in, once we make a precedent and introduce a new practice, then I'm afraid it might be a tool on some other occasions that maybe those who suggest this today would not be glad to use it. So, here, just frame it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18694	Thank you very much. Correction of the false allegations, MP Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18695	I thank you, Chairman. 26 kolega. Magazinović, you know, our Rules of Procedure are not defined at all as someone is being replaced from the presidency and there is no reason if the media inscriptions are not correct that Mr. Špirić is being replaced, so he did not abuse in this case. As far as it is concerned, it is not intended, nor has there been a suspension, however, Article 191 of our Rules of Procedure says – the House of Conclusion can regulate a particular question which is by no means or is not precisely regulated by this Rules of Procedure. This question is not at all, and then it is not precisely regulated by our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18696	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18697	I would like to welcome my colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, the chairman and other guests and the media present. I understand that we have different political views, I understand that we have different political views on certain issues and I understand that we do not agree on some issues, some more, some less, about some we will not agree on permanently, but on the subject of media inscriptions a serious debate in Parliament is at least unserious of the one who proposes it. If someone has something against Nikola Špirić, there is a possibility if, and I believe that this will be discussed in the Commission itself and in the competent authorities, if this is always established, there is a possibility that, on the basis of such conclusions, the competent authorities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will open the issue in the way that the Commission itself has been elected and the way the Commission chairman has been elected. But using an argument of media inscriptions and today in Parliament to propose one such item of the agenda by introducing one mechanism to anyone, anything written in any media, we have the opportunity for Parliament to make a decision on its temporary suspension, speaking enough, I would say, about the increased dose of the need for some people to disqualify and to conflict with certain different political positions of parties from Republika Srpska or at all parties that participate in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18698	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18699	... I really don't know anything about a specific case, I haven't even seen the above-mentioned media allegations, but when it comes to colleague Pandurević's claim that the Rules of Procedure are not clear or there's nothing in the Rules of Procedure it's simply not true. Therefore, Article 30(5) makes it very clear how, i.e. it prescribes a procedure for the chairman and the first and second vice-president. Namely, they are elected, and commission officials are elected by members of the commission, so the commission itself. So, if the proposal to suspend the chairman would then be a job for the commission itself, if the proposal to suspend Mr Špirić as a member, then it is something that, although I agree with colleague Magazinović, there is no concept of suspension, it can be removed, uh, and Dom can remove him from the Commission, or withdraw him from the Commission, and I think that 27 would be a good opportunity to finally introduce an entity balance that was prescribed to the Rules of Procedure in that Commission, which requires 2/3 of the members to be from the Federation and 1/3 from Republika Srpska. The entity balance was marred at the very beginning to insist that the chairman, Mr Džaferović, was then at the expense of the Federation of BiH. Perhaps this is a really good opportunity for the Federation of BiH to finally compensate because there is an entity balance, so it has been calling this House back for the first time in this Parliament's history to the detriment of the Federation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18700	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18701	Thank you. That's right. Article 31 regulates, our Rules of Procedure, as elected by the chairman, however, no member regulates how they are resolved. And we only choose the Council of Ministers in the House of Representatives, and it's solved by two homes, right? So there is no precise formulation of how the chairman committee is resolved. As for the claim that we Košarac in many ways, it is true that we do not particularly agree on the abuse of official position and authority, and we do not agree in respect of the law because some are drastically violating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18702	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18703	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I thought that this newly formed club would not have so many problems by either Parliament's leadership or I don't know who, and that, in accordance with the laws of this country, the Constitution, the Electoral Law and all that belongs to every elected MP, it will also be done by the leadership and commission of this Parliament. I mean, last time they accused me of threatening, and I have, I haven't had a chance to replicate, and I have to defuse it absolutely. And my claim that I am right is confirmed by the fact that the Administrative Commission of this Parliament has not worked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or has not made a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because in two same cases, and in the case of Vukovljak and this Club, it has made two completely different decisions. In the case of Vukovoljak, she made a decision, thereby allowing the honourable MP and fellow to have a legal remedy and to appeal to the Court of Justice of BiH, which he did, and in the case of this Independent Club, the Administrative Commission called in the preamble to the Rules of Procedure and to the provisions of which the Administrative Commission made decisions, and therefore after that she wrote only a conclusion and one sentence, thereby disabling this Club from having a lesson on the legal remedy. Therefore, I propose that the Administrative Commission meet again and make decisions in accordance with the law, the Rules of Procedure, and that it enables equal treatment for every MP and club in this Parliament. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18704	Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18705	All the time, and here for three years we've been in office, I've been trying to say absolutely no personal things, I've basically been attached to some political views, and that's how it's going to stay until the end of the term. Two concepts were used here, it is – abuse of official position and authority and other concepts – violation of the law, so I realized, in that we differ. Mrs. Pandurević, in fact, you're taking care of what you're saying in view of the fact that you're not an organ, nor am I the organ that determines who broke the law and who covered the powers and what you were talking about. Given the fact that you're still a lady, young lady, I hope you take care of your image. I want you to take care of this, I'm telling you collegiately, about your image that you create in public because I want to have a positive effect on you because it's very bad...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18706	Mr. Košarac, I need to intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18707	Let me just finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18708	No, no, you'll get, please, I'm here as chairman to protect the counsel. Do not make personal remarks. It's for me, as president, an insult to the MP and I ask you to stick to it. Keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18709	Thank you. I didn't insult anyone with any of my words. On the contrary, I said affirmatively, and I suggested well-intentioned and collegiately. That's the difference. I just want to say that neither Miss Pandurević nor I, nor any of us here have the right to realize that someone broke the law or that someone violated the powers or I don't know what. That's what they do, people, competent authorities. Don't put a target on people's chests by the ones we're dealing with, let's do it on the basis of all the knowledge that Mrs. Pandurević has, and all the rest of them run to the competent institutions. This isn't correct, this kind of initiative, this kind of agenda point is very incorrect. And that's where I seek your protection, Mr. Chairman. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18710	Thank you very much. So, as far as we're concerned, the Rules of Procedure will be respected. I ask you once again that in our speech we do not insult each other, there were elements of the insult here, I say it as chairman, and I am obliged to react. Honorable representative Nermina Kapetanović, has a word. Here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18711	I, as a member of the Joint Commission for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms and the Commission, who holds the respect of the Code within the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, have to replicate to Mr Košarac, although he knows it is not my custom, this is the second time in my life to replicate to him, and I do not replicate to my colleagues at all, there is officially no more ladies, all ladies are ladies, all ladies, one. And two, Mr. Košarac, you've just broken the Codex, and if we continue to insult each other, I think that the Joint Committee on Human Rights will do nothing else but determine who insulted whom, because this has indeed taken hold lately of individual disrespect for MPs and our relationship with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18712	Thank you very much, colleague Kapetanović. The word is represented by Borislav Bojić, a correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18713	I give up, my colleague said...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18714	All right, give up. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here you are, well, give up. Momčilo Novaković, can we say this for you?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18716	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18717	And you, well, gave up. Now we have a proposal from Mr. Prodanović. Here you go, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18718	The chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, chaired by the Council of Ministers and Ministers. So, according to the position I'm in at the club, I have a duty to present, therefore, a new old agenda point, which, whose name is known and the explanation, and I don't think I need to take away your time in that sense. Also, given that the results of the vote so far, if they are as in previous sessions, I would like to inform you, therefore in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is my obligation, that SNSD Members will not take part physically in the debate on the items of the agenda adopted at this session, by actively participating in the vote. Thank you. 30 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18719	So, I'm closing the debate. Please prepare for a plea. So, we have written materials, and we will only vote on them, which we have received from Mr. Šepić, from Mrs. Pandurević, here is now the material from Mr. Ahmetović, and we have a proposal from Mr. Prodanović for which we have written material. As for Mr Bećirović's proposal, so he did not deliver the material, nor did he suggest a point, but he suggested that the College do so. The college has no such agreement, I have consulted myself, as far as I'm concerned, there's no big deal about any attack on anyone, especially if it's Srebrenica's mothers and I don't have any dilemma. We are going to vote on the proposed points that have a condition, and we are voting on Mr. Šepić's proposal. Prepare to vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] About agricultural producers, prices, etc. So 17 for, 12 against, 8 abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from the entity Republic...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18721	Can you repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18722	Of course we can. We repeat, at the request of the Democratic Front Club, the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 for, 13 against, 7 abstentions. There is not enough entity majority from Republika Srpska. Agreeing now or what? It's a match right now. We're going to the second round. Prepare to vote. 18 for, 14 against, 7 abstentions... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDP Club, we repeat the vote. 31 Prepare to vote, repeat the vote in the second round. 18 for, 15 against, 6 abstentions. There are more than 2/3 of Republika Srpska entities and this has not been adopted as a part of the agenda. We're moving on to the proposal for the agenda point, Ms. Pandurević. Prepare to vote, pardon me, Mrs. Pandurević, I apologize. Vote now. So 20 for, 13 against, 6 abstentions. Enough entity majority. Let this point line up with the Rules of Procedure to the appropriate place of today's agenda, for I do not participate, I do not influence it, nor do any of us, the Rules of Procedure have arranged it. We move on to Mr Ahmetović's agenda proposal. Prepare to vote, you've got the material, you've got the material. Are you asking me to read it? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18727	It's just a brief chairman. On 19 July last year, he asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers, also related to his exposés where he promised to form a National Security Council of BiH... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] That's another thing, I get it you're telling me. So he asked Mr. Zvizdić about the promise of forming a National Security Council for BiH, which would make up the highest representatives of the state and entity legislative and executive authorities, the heads of intelligence and most important police agencies. The specific question was then – how long did this process take, since it was also promised to produce a Security Policy document in 2015-2025? This question is from Parliament, since the chairman was not there, sent and requested answer in writing, so far has not come and I pray that at the most recent time, since it has been over a year, the answer to this question is delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18729	Yes, thank you very much. 35 Hanko Vajzović comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18730	Thank you, Chairman. I actually want to ask or see what to do, what to do, I'm not on the list of those who got the answers, and I get the answer, am I going to comment or what to do? So I did get the answer, but I'm not among those who are scheduled to comment who have received the answers as well. I was asked a question, the question was addressed to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I got their answer. I asked why, why, why, there is the accent, why is the security programme, why the Ministry is not the Civil Aviation Programme, did nothing, but kept it in the drawer for three years, and I also asked in the context of, among other things, the plane crash and, that is, why did not the International Civil Aviation Organisation's remarks and measures, as ordered from the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Transport have done anything? In response, they confirmed what I said and focused on the fact that if Bog did, he would already do something. So the dates show that they really didn't do anything, and here they promised that they would actually start with some work groups, that something after that, after my question, would be more active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18731	Thank you. Representative Mensura Beganović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18732	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. I got two written answers to my questions. One from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the World Trade Organisation, is a rather detailed answer and I am, as it says, pleased with what is stated in the response. I hope that the conditions for joining the World Trade Organisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be met after those about 17 years of negotiations with, bilateral and multilateral ones. But this, given that there is one problem relating to legislation at the level of the Federation of BiH, which is a condition for joining the World Trade Organisation, I fear that this planned, for the end of 2017, planned access to the World Trade Organisation will not be respected unless it is indeed insisted. Can I comment immediately on the second question I received from the Foreign Ministry? Which, in fact, questions are being asked to the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and I only got one part of the response from the Foreign Ministry which, let's say, is quite general even though I asked for concrete data. It is that the Department of Economic diplomacy, which is in charge of supporting our exporters and support, is the support of potential investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, should present its results in this response. Economic diplomacy is, in part, in the jurisdiction of the Foreign Ministry, but at the same time, I focused part of the issue on the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and I did not get an answer. I expect to get to some of Parliament's annual sessions, so I will be able to comment. 36 What I would now comment on, which means the answer to the results of the work, which is actually, this, the Department of Foreign Affairs, is general data concerning exports, or imports to Bosnia and Herzegovina, where they do not present the results in any way, indeed, of their work concretely when it comes to helping exporters and about potential investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are even, when it comes to investment, to give the data of the Central Bank of BiH which we are more or less familiar with, we even had a report given by both the Central Bank and FIPA, so I am kind of unhappy with this, part of the answer. You have called on the Council of Ministers' report to provide more details on the activities and results of the work on economic diplomacy. I have really carefully reviewed this Council of Ministers report, all 320 pages that are in a different way I've presented the results, and I haven't found any detailed data in any place that you've told me in response that they exist. [[Embassy is warned on time]] It's possible whoever prepared the report left out that information, but I really want to see it, it's about the previous year, and the previous five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18733	Thank you. The comment should last no longer than the asked question, so we said last time. Representative Damir Arnaut, he has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18734	Thank you. A question has been asked to the Council of Ministers – what has the Council of Ministers done specifically in the current part of the mandate with the aim of improving the situation in the area of financial market development? The Council of Ministers also provided a reply with seven points, one of which says the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries has been adopted, streamlining fees for commission work. I, Mr. Chairman, have been stolen, but come on, what I've stolen, this House has been stolen, it has been my bill of law adopted by this House, and the only thing the Council of Ministers has done under that law is to deliver a negative opinion. But this House, the House of People, ignored that negative opinion and passed a law that resulted in savings of over 2 million marks a year. Not only have fees for commission work been abolished during working hours but they are limited to a maximum of 475 marks. And as I said before, I don't know what's sadder that the Council of Ministers has only seven points in two and a few years of mandate what it has done to, uh, reform the financial market or that of those seven points, none of which are any other law, is stealing one of mine. I really feel damaged here, and I think this requires, uh, clarification of the Council of Ministers' Chairman, one -- why is there no points and two -- why does he take mine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18735	Thank you very much. Representative Zaim Backović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18736	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 37 Since I see that I am not here, immediately to say, in the answers, and since I am getting answers from various sides, it is not clear to me how it is possible for the Ministry of Justice to direct an act on my behalf and direct it to only one side, that it did not go to the institutions of Republika Srpska at all, but only to the Federation. How is that possible? That's one thing, I hope the minister answers that. Secondly, I don't understand, this applies and slowly between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Civil Affairs in coordination, the information can be agreed in half an hour, so they can't get as much revenue from the registration of a vehicle to build roads. If you know how many cars are registered annually, times as many times as, equally many times a year, same as so many times a year. Gentlemen, it's hard from service to service, hard. How is it possible that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, cannot take out what credit obligations Bosnia and Herzegovina are for road construction? And I can't get that answer. What is this all about, does the public want to deny themselves information, or what is true about the total amount of funds that have been collected and, under alleged signs, spent on road construction? Why can't you get that? So all the answers are completely hollow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18737	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, comment. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18739	Do we have a quorum? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18740	No, no, it doesn't matter if we don't have a quorum. Now I'll count it. 21, so at this point we don't have a quorum call, uh, MPs. Stay in the O.R., so call the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18742	Will I get a new time? 38
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18743	Of course, of course, you haven't even started.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18744	I don't know what I know about relationships.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18745	So go on, Mr. Lovrinović, actually get started. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18746	Okay, thank you very much. I welcome all present. So, for the first time, I'm reporting in the hall today, and I'm going to be commenting, so the answer I got from the presidency. Namely, I have asked in my time to get consent from the Bureau to, I get a transcript of Mr. Alija Izetbegović's report after the meeting in Split in '91. the year he submitted to this Parliamentary Assembly. I got that agreement, but they told me, he says – if he was ever found in the BiH Archives. So I hope he didn't burn in those documents when it was 2012, but here I hope to get it. Secondly, I wanted to take advantage of the occasion, of course, to say that I have submitted questions, what you have said to the chairman, so BHRT, Federal Television and RTRS, and that was said – who made the decision, by what act and when on the basis of your services, I would ask that, in addition to the reply, I be provided with a reasoned act? So, I don't have an answer, but I don't have a response from federal television for years now, so either something I asked them, and I'm probably never gonna get, but I'm not gonna give up either, they're wrong. And the third thing I wanted to say, therefore to the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, is that I am really now expecting an answer to the question I asked for the Filipović family and the resolution of their housing problem for 20 years after they were brought down in a war apartment. Now I'm really expecting him, and I've given the minister enough space to answer me. I expect an answer next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18747	Thank you. Before we continue and give my word to the next MP, let the representatives' clubs be informed that MPs come, so here in the O.R., and if they don't want us to work, we can make that decision and we'll continue to do it, but then we'll record, so why don't we do it. So I'm calling on the MPs to get into the O.R. to keep working because we're at number 22, we have a quorum, we can do, uh, keep working, otherwise we'll make another decision, I'm not going to beg anyone, everyone has their own responsibility as a representative here. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Safer Demirović, a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18748	I thank the Honorable Chairman and, of course, welcome you and everyone present. My comment is on two parliamentary issues. First, at the 45th session, I asked the Minister of Justice, in oral form, about the work of the TK Prosecutor's Office. And I got the answer in writing, in writing, and that's the first answer and the first letter that 39 sent by this prosecution and I believe it's only because, it went through or through the minister of justice, and of course I owe one form of gratitude for it. And secondly, the second issue is about the issue I asked in writing in March of this year to the Council of Ministers, which concerns the adoption of a set of the European Union directives of the so-called "European Union". a new approach that the Council of Ministers adopted in 2006. I didn't get an answer to this question, so I'd like to, see, since the past deadlines are set, to get as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18749	Thank you very much. Dear representative Diana Zelenika has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18750	Thank you. On February 22nd, I asked the Minister of Human Rights about the majorisation of members of the Croatian people in the Federation of BiH in the field of employment equality in federal ministries and the irregular distribution of budget money. In a response that I have been waiting for for a long time, and it is not the minister's fault because she has not received a reply from certain ministries,... some conclusion is that the answers are not uniform, that certain ministries, in certain ministries there are no elements of majorisation, and there are no mention of ministries such as the Federal Ministry of Spatial Planning, where 83 Bošnjak are employed, and 11 employees are Hrvat, where only the Ministry has turned their attention to the damaged national structure of employees, or, say, the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees, where 52 employees are Bošnjak, and everything is 7 Hrvat. So clearly, uh, the constitutional provisions have been violated. So since the question was – what you will do is follow me from this alone, the only answer – I will do nothing. Because at least I think, and if I'm wrong, tell me, that it's still the minister's or ministry's duty to draw attention to the implementation of constitutional provisions, insisting on implementation, to conduct them. So it's a duty to run a proactive policy, and I expected concrete moves in that regard. And I'm not happy with the answer at all, because the answer actually doesn't just determine the fact that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18751	Thank you very much. We're moving to the point of the three agenda, and that's it, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 45th session of the House, held on 10.05.2017. The Constitutional Legal Commission submitted a report on the Bill's Proposal on 04.07.2017. The Commission adopted the draft law and proposed that it be adopted to the House. 40 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the point of the four agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1185/17, 09.05 and 12.06.2017. (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, just a few blurs. The 2006 Administrative Tax Act adopted a Regulation on the issue, release, distribution, withdrawal from use and replacement of state administrative fees, which has never been brought into practice. I will remind us here that in this Law in Article 17 it is said that taxes are paid by state tax stamps, now it is predicted, if I understand correctly, to abolish these state tax marks and to pay in, cash in cash, means without the mark of government tax marks. I was restrained at the Finance and Budget Commission when it came to this amendment to the Law because of the response I received from the responsible representative of the Ministry of Finance, to my question who was obstructing - that these were political reasons. Given that administration fees exist at lower levels of government, do we now come to a situation by amending this Law that one feature of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is state tax marks, is being deleted from use. Here, I would like to get an answer to that question,...to my fellow Members and fellow Members, I would also ask this question to have, uh, the possibility of voting to determine in what way to vote when it comes to amending, amending and supplementing this law. I think that if entities have tax marks that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should also have state tax marks, even for this amount of money as defined in Article 17 of the existing Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18755	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić has his word. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18756	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This law is very strange, I could rarely in practice come up with a bill like this. With support, as my colleague Sokolović said, in my humble opinion, the Racio Legis of this Law is in fact a physical abolition, in fact the elimination of the possibility that they exist in the physical form of this administrative tax at the level of the state. It's amazing what they wrote as a reason to pass this law. The first sentence reads – to improve legal solutions, and more effective application in practice, and next to the fact that, under the Law on Administrative Taxes, they want to improve the application of the Law. Well, the law, and especially this Regulation, is not applicable in this part. Who is the individual sovereign in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether it is the current Minister Bevanda, whether he is the previous minister, whether he is three laps back, since 2002, to decide to take his own right to amend the Law and the Regulation. If it can't be applied, then I guess it's time to inform the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and say - the law can't be applied because of that and therefore, changes are necessary, complements, alignment, and then to go in that direction. No, they make use of the situation in a way that they decide not to apply the law or regulations themselves. When you look at the structure of the application of the Law itself, of course, after 15 or 11 years of non-application of the Law and of the Regulations, the Reform Agenda is cited as another reason, the Reform Agenda. And what was back a year ago when there was no Reform Agenda, there was no Agenda, so there was no reason, was there, for changes and additions. And why isn't the law and regulations applicable? Another funny thing they do there, they say – changes, additions, look at the initial text of the Bill's proposal, and it says – corrections, as far as I've seen, are added by new members, are added. This systematization, the Proposer of the Law, takes the right to say the Law is not in line with the Unique Rules. Well, it gives them the right, so it's not theirs to do that grade, it's this Parliamentary Assembly. If not, which in time in these 15 years has not been made changes and supplements, i.e. compliance with the Unique Rules. At the end of the quote, see Article 31c) and you will see, as it is written, and in one of the previous ones it is said that it ceases to apply to these administrative fees. And that same rule was brought by the Council of Ministers. Now, whether the Parliamentary Assembly is competent to put out of force by law the regulation passed by the Council of Ministers. These are all the reasons why I don't think this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18757	Thank you. So we've exhausted the argument at point four. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01- 02-1-1374/17, dated 30.05.2017. (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 31/05/2017, establishing that the draft law is fully in line with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and 42 Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House College has appointed the Commission for Transport and Communications to discuss the bill. The Commission submitted its opinion on the Proposal for a Law in 04.07.2017. The Commission supported the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal on 04.07.2017. The Commission found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. I'm opening a debate. Representative Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18759	Dear members of the College, Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be very brief. Namely, in the application of the amendments to the Law, a number of illogicalities was observed at the outset and may be said freely which, above all, seem to be the result of insufficient attention in the adoption of the Law itself and even discussion of the Law itself. I will only talk about one moment, given that the Law has several members of which some of the amendments are purely technical, corrections of purely technical nature, but what is essential and why I have proposed this Law is the fact that in the application of the European Parliament's Directive on driving licences number 2006/126/EC and the Council of Europe, adopted in 2006, the possibility was created for the D category, that the D category can also be laid down by those who own sub-category D1 and D1E, and in this Directive nowhere is what we had until then, and that is that the D category can also be laid down by those who have a C category. Croatia's legislation even provides for extenuating circumstances, including the B category, which have a B category can be trained and laid down for the C category, for, uh, D category of course provided that it has a number of theoretical classes and practical classes. And that's just the difference from which categories you take, so in the number of theoretical and practical classes. In this way, we have come into a situation that, for example, in Republika Srpska there is no car school that can train for the D category at this point because there are no D1 vehicles that meet the conditions of sub-category D1 and D1E, that I am not now talking about the technical characteristics of these vehicles. According to information I have, and not, I'm building on it, it's not official, there are only two auto-schools in the Federation in Sarajevo that can do it, which can even lead me to doubt that it's fully consciously done to favor those two schools. I think it is not aware and I think it is the wrong interpretation of the Directive and therefore I have proposed amendments to the law that practically enable what we had until then plus what the Directive adopted in 2006, which is, uh, identical or very similar to the practice that all countries of the region have. Here, in short, I couldn't do any shorter than this, I think this is as short as I could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18760	That's enough, thank you. I'm closing the debate because there are no new reports. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, No: 01-02-1-1377/17, from 31.05.2017. (first reading) 43 The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 05.06.2017, establishing that the draft law is fully in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission to consider the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal on 04.07.2017. The Commission has found that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the legal system and has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18762	I thank the chairman. So, the proposal for a law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, I decided to take this step after a lot of measures taken before I am going to send in the parliamentary procedure of this Bill and accordingly I was based on the Decision on the terms and conditions and manner of the use of annual leave for civil servants and seconded ministers in the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, services, bodies, institutions of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I also addressed the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, asking for their opinion on this, because based on this Decision, which I mentioned in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is a categorisation of how and how it can be obtained, and which is the number of days of vacation, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is discrimination against the workplace which one, or function someone performs, although, of course, the Law of Discrimination is explicitly against that provision. So, it's just that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the executives only have 25 days of vacation, so their starting position is immediately different from all the other officials within the Bosnia and Herzegovina state service institutions. Other civil servants have an initial categorization of 20 days of vacation, and the tenants are 18 days old. It's about us all working eight hours and why someone should just because the manager should have a starting position on the annual vacation day different from someone else who's in a lower ranking position. The Ombudsmans for human rights also gave their opinion, and this was delivered to all colleagues and colleagues, and pointed to the general principle of justice which states that employees should have the same number of vacation days regardless of the jobs they do, except in exceptional cases when it comes to particularly difficult jobs. So, in addition, we have, of course, that on the basis of the starting position, additional days are counted, whether on the basis of disability, on the basis of work experience and on the other hand, it remains still applicable, with this proposal for a law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, all of us identifying ourselves in the same way and having the same starting position as at least 20 working days for vacation, but no longer than 30 days of vacation. I also addressed the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's research sector, which has done a complementary analysis of how it is regulated in the countries of the region, so here only comparisons work in the Republic of Croatia are prescribed that the official and the tenant have at least 20 working days, in the Republic of Serbia as well. Therefore, the countries of the region have removed this discrimination within all public sector employees and I believe that colleagues and colleagues, i.e. I hope that they will support this Amendment to the Law. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18763	Thank you very much. I'm closing the hearing because there are no more reports. Moving to point seven, that's it, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica, issue: 01-02-1-1378/17, from 31.05.2017 (first reading) The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 05.06.2017, establishing that the draft law is fully in line with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. The House College has appointed the Constitutional Legal Commission to consider the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal on 04.07.2017. The Commission has established that the draft law is in line with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system, and has accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Representative Maja-Gasal-Gasal the Vražalica, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18765	In order to meet distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it is therefore the same amendment and it is necessary that this, the previous Law, which has been discussed for a moment, should be amended in this Act only by one member and replaced by number 18 with a number 20 in order to be applied in future work.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18766	Thank you very much. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. The next item of the agenda is the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, but before moving to that point, for 2016, before moving to that point I am giving a break an hour, so until 14:20. This is a lunch break and I'm asking that the MPs ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18767	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18768	Please, please, just before, please, please stay a minute, there's one, one useful suggestion, please, please. So, we talked within the College of Pauses, 45 so, it will be up to 14:20, but we will have to make one decision now, to take the last item of the agenda, which concerns that part of the session when the public is disfellowshipped, since we are taking a break to prepare the hall for that part, we will do it immediately after the break, and after that we will begin the debate on the Council of Ministers, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, when the public will, of course, be present again, so that at the end of the session, we will not take that break for an hour. That's a college suggestion. Can you vote for this, tell me, prepare to vote for this proposal, so that the last item be the first after the break, without the public to prepare the hall, and then the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. [[Common discussion]] Mr. Šepić says a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There you go. You're looking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18770	Well, I'm asking you to help, given that what you're doing right now has brought us into some awkward position. I think it's important that we have this debate on the Council of Ministers' work now and that we can do it while we still have the media and that the public is aware of what we're doing. So, now something to do in the sense that we're discussing something after this break without including the public, so in a way looking for space and position that we don't have the media when we're discussing the real issue, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, is a kind of manipulation with us. So, in that sense, I suggest that we do and talk about the important things, and that after this, after this story about the Council of Ministers, we take that break, clean up the O.R. and prepare with for...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18771	You see, so I don't explain, I mean here you can see that from this discussion that things don't understand, I mean, or, I don't know, they don't want to be understood. So no one was saying that the media would not be, I pointed out but the media would be when there's a debate about this, about the Council of Ministers, so without it, without the media there's no discussion, but I said that we have the last item of the agenda on which, these are the reports of the PDO on which there's no media, so that we don't wait at the end of the session an hour to start with it. However, in order for me not to complicate I withdraw my proposal, we're going with the session as planned and done. So, at 13 o'clock, 14 o'clock and 20 minutes, we'll continue the debate with the Council of Ministers' Labour Report, and we'll be working, at the end of the session we'll be making... [[Common discussion]] Please, please stay in the O.R. for a while longer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18773	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18774	Come on you suggest then, so I've given up my proposal to suggest you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18775	So you know that before the last point, we have to take a break of an hour to get the gym ready for that last point. The proposal is to do so during the break and to do the last item immediately after the break and to bring the media into the hall afterwards and continue the story of the Council of Ministers. And I suggest you vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18776	I'm putting Mr. Bosić's proposal to the vote. Prepare to vote. 20 votes for, no problem, 10 abstentions. _________(?) Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18777	...the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18778	We can't go in the second round there isn't us, uh, please, please wait a minute, so don't wait for us to solve the sick, bony not being, the situation, what's the problem, being nervous people, so nothing will be done past the Rules of Procedure. So there aren't all three members of the College here we can't go to the second round, so we didn't adopt this and continue the session the way the session was planned. I'll see you at 2:25. I ask the MPs and all invited to enter the O.R., to take their seats, to continue our work. Mr. Arnaut, there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure here, is that what you're picking up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18780	Thank you. Just because, at that point earlier, there was no opportunity, so when it comes to the oral answer to the parliamentary question, Chairman Zvizdić said after this speaker that, I quote him, they would decide who would give me the oral answer at the next session. Article 169. The Rules of Procedure say - a member of the Council of Ministers whose question has been addressed is obliged to answer the question at the same session or to state the reason why he cannot answer. In that case, he is obliged, orally, to answer the asked question at the first next session of the House. I insist that this business intervention be included in the minutes and be underlined by the chairman that he will not decide who will give the answer, but that he is obliged by the Rules of Procedure to give me an answer. That's August 25th, I'll wait until then, I've been waiting since May 10th, waiting for more. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18781	Thank you very much. So, the breach of the Rules of Procedure applies, of course, to all of us who are in this room, but what you've done is actually now a replica that should not be allowed when it comes to representation issues, and the obligation is the College, and I said several times today, that everything has to be done by the Rules of Procedure, it simply can't, as it says there will be and, therefore, there's no dilemma there. He can declare whoever he wants here, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, but nothing will be in line unless what is said is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you know this and that we are now not opening any further unnecessary debate we continue with our work. Point eight of the agenda, Ad. 8. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-1411/17, dated 05.06.2017. At the 50th session, held on 14.06.2017, the House College sent the report to all permanent committees of the House and to the joint committees of both homes which were called to each of their responsibilities to consider the Report and the Representative's House of Delivery of their opinions. The Commission delivered opinions on the Report in the section relating to the work of the institutions under their jurisdiction, and notes: The Joint Commission for Defence and Security adopted the Report; the Foreign Affairs Commission refused the Report; the Commission for Transport and Communications and the Joint Commission for Labour Control of the Intelligence Security Agency adopted the Report; the Constitutional Commission did not adopt the Report; the Commission for Finance and Budget, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Joint Commission for European Integration did not accept the Report; the Joint Commission for European Integration supported the Report(?) The Joint Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Gender Equality did not consider the report due to a failure to attend a meeting of the Committee of Ministers and Deputy Ministers of the Ministrys for whose report is responsible. You have received opinions, with my note, that there are some other committees that have asked for representatives of the Council of Ministers, not only, therefore, ministers, were not present, the debate has been held, and there have been some commissions that have rejected the report because the ministers, i.e. the deputy ministers and ministry representatives were not present. So, we now have two options here, we have the possibility that before we begin the debate on this report we ask all committees to do their job with the House's obligation to the ministers to be present at committee meetings, that all ministers be together with the chairman here in the O.R. and then discuss this report, or that we continue on this basis based on this material as stated in the agenda. The House College was considering this question, and I'm going to ask for a short break of 10 minutes, and I'm going to call an extended college here in the O.R., club presidents, and the three of us from the College, to see what we're going to do about this issue. That's it. I'm calling an extended college in a small O.R. right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. So, I'm at the head of the Committee for European Integration, you know that, and one of the positive opinions on this report is precisely this Committee. We discussed it, we had Mr. Dilberović's presence, but at the meeting of the Committee, we drew attention, although there were no representatives directly, so to speak, from the Council of Ministers, that we, I will remind you, have reached one conclusion that in the package with this Report there is a special report for European integration, so the stage of European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina in all segments as a special report. Since it did not come and then at the Committee and now, while we have already done this in a hurry, I am proposing, and now I propose to Mr Zvizdić as a proposer of this material that he withdraws the material and prepares us for the next session in the report, this particular report for European integration, the degree of European integration, and since some commissions have also put, as the chairman said, the remarks that there were no representatives, let them in no way have been shown, that the debate would be complete, complete. And I think that we can get out of this so that Mr. Chairman, as an authorised promoter, pulls the agenda point, that's what the Rules of Procedure predicts, so that we have a debate as fully as we expect and that it would be good to run it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18785	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18786	The Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Representatives. Here, I don't know, I've now briefly consulted with my colleagues present here, which, of course, concerns me personally, I've prepared a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, and I've been quite prepared to answer any questions, suggestions, suggestions, criticisms, etc., but in any case, we should consider two important things. One is that there are not three ministers who cover three extremely important portfolios, it is Minister Šarović, Minister Jusko and Minister Mektić, and there is practically no one on their behalf who can answer those questions that are detailed in the work segment of the three ministries which, we must all admit, cover one huge, huge spectrum of competence, activities and activities of the Council of Ministers of BiH. And we are also in the Council of Ministers of Opinions, and we think it would be very useful to re-announce commissions which did not accept the Council of Ministers' report to attend the same compulsory presence of ministers with their associates and to respond very clearly to all the questions, to explain the report on the work of their ministries, or sectors in charge of the fact that this is the first year in which the report is working on a new methodology that has obviously caused a major degree of confusion in terms of the compatibility of the data itself and of the narrative part that has been prepared by the Council of Ministers on the work of each ministry. Therefore, I consider this, if you decide to do so, only by prolonging this item of the agenda for the next or for the session whenever you decide to do so. Until then, we will ensure that the meetings are attended by all ministers from the Council of Ministers so that they can adequately answer all your questions, criticisms, suggestions, analyses, etc., and at the same time, of course, we will ensure that, if so, ministers are present with their deputies and their staff at committee meetings to adequately provide answers to all the questions that the committee members have. Here, that's our attitude, I think the discussion itself would be much better. I repeat, I have prepared my presentation, I will answer those questions that fall, here to say, in my jurisdiction, but certainly specific questions from such three large ministries that have a wide range of their responsibilities as well as the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Security and, in particular, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, for which ministers are in charge, their non-representation would be a great lack in terms of quality presentation of the Council of Ministers' work report, and I don't think it means anything to extend such a thing in 5, 10 or 15 days. As far as we are concerned, we think that such a thing would certainly be much more quality and more concrete for the analysis itself and an adequate presentation of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18787	Thank you, Council of Ministers Chairman. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18788	I thank the chairman. I really don't know what point of the Rules of Procedure to start with, but here, maybe the best Article 71. – at the beginning of the meeting of the House, the authorising officer shall have the right to request that the optional period be omitted. Mr. Zvizdić is an authorised promoter but this is not an optional point, as it is in accordance with Article 70, the mandatory point that has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And here, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and, here, I will remind my colleague Džaferović, since he cited as a member of the Constitutional Commission exactly this point, that is, this member of the Rules of Procedure, which is Article 184, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers reports to the House on work at least once a year. The House is considering a report on the work of the Council of Ministers within 30 days of its submission. This report was submitted on 05.06.2017 and this is the same date as when we received it. Today is 05.07.2017, today is the last day, according to the Rules of Procedure, that this House is considering this Report. I can later, uh, in replicas, although that's also the case with the Rules of Procedure, so it's not common, and the chairman knows that this is an excuse, that individual ministers come out here for a pay phone and talk about segments of the Report. The chairman of the Council of Ministers cannot say that something is not his jurisdiction if he has submitted the exposé here on all issues of the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction. And in order for certain topics to be discussed, there are committee meetings and the chairman was obliged to ensure the presence of his ministers at committee meetings when it comes to individual parts of this report. 50 So there are really no business conditions for this point to be removed from the agenda. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, although he is an authorised promoter, has no right to withdraw this point since it is a mandatory point, as I have already said in accordance with Article 184, which Mr Džaferović has really been very argumentative at the session of the Constitutional Commission. You are, I have proposed to remove yourself from the session of the Constitutional Commission as chairman of the Commission, and you have told Mr Džaferović – we cannot, we have an obligation under Article 184 to consider this within 30 days. Here, I ask you, at least, to be consistent and to apply this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18789	Keep it up, I'm always trying to be right. Thank you for these compliments, I thank you. I now give my word to the honourable representative Damir Bećirović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18790	Here, fellow Arnaut has already said some of the members, so we don't know where to start, we have 71, 72, which is talking about the agenda, and it's illusory to expect that we here in one session will have all the ministers and deputies, I don't think that it happened once. And I would also appeal to my colleague Arnaut as a member of the position to provide at least the presence of his minister here, so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18791	Thank you, too. He now has the word of Honorable Representative Zaim Backović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18792	Thank you. I didn't know, Your Honor, what to lead this under. Can I know what the reason is so I can't open the documents in electronic form, or I'll wear all that stuff here. We've got...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18793	Please, I ask the services to intervene urgently and immediately, to allow Mr Backović to be electronically monitored by the session. Here you go, Mr. Backović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18794	So the documents I can't... if I want to say something, I don't have them, empty paper.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18795	I did what I could to keep from talking. Thank you very much. Representative Senad Šepić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18796	Well, I think it is evident that there is no business opportunity to react now in the manner requested by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This is the beginning of July, six months have passed, so we should have discussed the Council of Ministers' 2016 work report in the regular procedure. Obviously, it would not be today if, at last session, the Independent bloc as a new club had not asked for the item of the agenda, mandatory, report on the work of the Council of Ministers and the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the implementation of activities in the five months of 2017. Now if you pull this out of here again, you're going to do this item on the agenda of the second initiative, which we're going to have the opportunity to open and discuss, you're going to have through one, here through, maybe half an hour when this next item of the agenda comes into order. So I'm asking you to discuss this and, of course, we're taking the next steps accordingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18797	Thank you very much. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18798	Well, I want to say a few things, maybe I'll tell the real truth that someone won't like, but it's obvious that we started counting in Parliament and it's obvious that there isn't today, this report doesn't have support, so it doesn't have enough hands. And the real reasons why they're being made, the real cartoon of Parliament is that. So re-returning the report into the commission phase is underestimating the Rules of Procedure. And why is that? Because the commissions are sitting in their capacity, the ministers are not coming. So that would be another humiliation by the Council of Ministers of this Parliament. So this went through the commission phase, in most cases the Council of Ministers' report didn't go through. Trend that he will not pass, therefore, and the indicator of what was on the committees is that approximately today such an atmosphere is here in Parliament. So this would be a run from the debate to give MPs the right to talk about the work of the Council of Ministers. About this country and about the state of this country, someone has to take responsibility. So, don't take responsibility for this Parliament, don't take responsibility for this Parliament, and if we return it to the commission stage, the commissions have done their part of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18799	Thank you, too. Everything will be decided by a respected colleague, Ahmetović, this doma. Any idea here that is in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure is both legitimate and will be as decided by this House, and none individually. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18800	I thank the chairman. I want to report that I can't monitor the session electronically either, because I can't open the documents. It's obviously some kind of information problem, so please and I... 52
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18801	I'm taking a 10-minute break to see what's up with the devices. We can't go any other way. We have to do this. Ten minutes, don't leave the O.R., please. The mladen if you won't take a break I'll withdraw your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18802	/not included microphony/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18803	So what do I do now, they can't open the materials. They'll tell me later that I'm running a session and they can't follow the session. [[Common discussion]] So, it takes a 10 minute break, it's already been two or three minutes, please let me know if... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18806	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm an anesthesiologist, so I guess I'm used to rushing always. I was going to say, so the correction of the wrong allegation, it happened that today a colleague said, is not true that all the commissions were discussing the report. Let's say the Human Rights Commission refused to discuss the report at all, so it didn't refuse the report, one. Two, I don't see a mechanism for the prime minister, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, to force ministers to attend committee meetings. Does he have a mechanism? I simply don't know about such a mechanism, and I've been in Parliament for a long time. And I don't think this is an escape from reality, but I don't see why the Prime Minister would take over a part of the discussion that concerns three very important resolution ministries for which we have a truly set of important issues. And to say that this running away from the public simply isn't correct, and the Human Rights Commission hasn't discussed the Report at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18807	Thank you very much. 53 Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18808	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, look, the basic remark, here, the Commission for Finance and Budget was not the lack of ministers or of the competent, uh, the Commission at the hearing of the Report, but it was the conclusion that the new methodology was not, uh, good at this time to be applied when writing the Council of Ministers' Work Report for 2016, for the simple reason why this methodology, this, uh, was adapted so-called. program budgeting, here, which we have not been applied in practice when planning the budget for the current year. What do we essentially, if we return this report to the commission, we can do, right? Let's ask the competent one if, why, from the planned laws in 2016 of 64, 15 or 16 were created and sent to parliamentary procedure – why did you not do that law. That's what we can do here. I think we have all the conditions that we can talk about today, because the concept of the report, means the methodology of exactly taxing how much the law has been passed, how, uh, who has implemented the Action Plan, what are, which are sublegal acts that have been adopted, signed international contracts, what about public investment, and, in particular, here, and here today because the Council of Ministers created this report, adopted it and sent it to parliamentary procedure, and pointed out even how many sessions it has held, doesn't say how the institutions of the state worked, how many they held a session. Therefore, what is the content of this report is that we can discuss it today and, I think, reach a certain conclusion after the debate. And what Mr. Šepić was talking about, July is the month, in the first quarter of this year we were supposed to finish this story. And I think we should respect that time and for the reason that the budget has already been prepared for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18809	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18810	Well, sort of correcting the wrong quote to some colleagues. So, I, when I suggested to Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, therefore, to propose to this House to postpone the debate, so I have no reason to defend the Mr. Chairman, but he acted by what is the mandatory point, and she is mandatory. So no one could have guessed, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, nor the chairman of the House, nor us, how it would end up in committees. We, therefore, had some committees yesterday, let it seem to me, even this morning, we have the attitude we have. So, this isn't, the point is on the agenda, I don't suggest, I didn't suggest that he take it off the agenda, but I suggested the chairman of the Council of Ministers, on the trail and what he said, and what we've been saying here, some in this room, and some there at the General College meeting, to propose to the House to postpone the debate for the next session. So, I didn't say take it off the agenda. Even so, I tried to find and there is nowhere exactly regulated in the Rules of Procedure, but the fat reasons are to postpone the debate, so that the chairman of us, said he was ready and to discuss as far as he was concerned, to propose to the House to postpone the debate for the next session, nothing more. So we're not taking it off the agenda, it's been a agenda point, we're discussing whether we're going to move on or not in a given situation, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18811	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18812	I thank the chairman. Lovrinović course, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers could not assume that this would end on the commissions, and given that almost none of the representatives of the Council of Ministers showed up, so if he could not assume it would end up on the commission, he would end up at the House today. So how do we expect this chairman of the Council of Ministers to provide us with candidate status, to improve our economic situation, but I mean really improves, not present us with those pink, uh, images of the economic situation. As we expect this chairman of the Council of Ministers to translate the questionnaire, I think we've already had that situation. Obviously, the chairman of the Council of Ministers could not assume that he would encounter all those problems with the translation of questionnaires, so, that is, we now have this situation as we have to engage..., that is, we have proposals to hire agencies from the region for these needs, to get that money out of Bosnia and Herzegovina and various similar nebulous proposals. So, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers, as you said to Mr Lovrinović, could not assume what kind of debacle he would experience here, what kind of debacle he would experience on the commissions if the ministers didn't show up at those committees, then it is no wonder he couldn't assume that four times in a row his excise duties and all those debacles would fall. But watch out for something, if we have such a chairman of the Council of Ministers who can't assume these basics, then we as a country really have a big problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18813	Thank you very much. I am putting to the vote the House College's proposal to postpone the debate, to be held on committees with the presence of ministers and to hold a debate with all ministers next time on the Council of Ministers' work report. Prepare to vote on this proposal. 16 for, 14 against, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. Home has decided, repeats the vote. Who's looking? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We repeat the vote at the request of the SBB Club. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 14 against, 1 abstention. That's enough of the ethnic majority. 55 We postponed the debate on this until next session. All committees, with the presence of all ministers, hold a debate on the report on the work of the Council of Ministers and the 26th debate on the Report with the presence of the chairman and the Council of Ministers. We're going to the next item on the agenda, point nine, ad. Nine. Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption, the BiH Ministry of Justice material, issue: 01-50-19-1344/17, dated 25.05.2017. (vote)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18816	I've been looking for half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18817	So it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're looking...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18818	Well, here, I'm looking for a half-hour break. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18819	Yeah, great, so at the request of the SBB Club I'm giving a break from... [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18820	You're seeing the SBB.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18821	So, at the request of the DF Club, I'm giving a 30-minute break, and I apologize, and the break will last until 3:50. So we have a quorum, we can keep working. Mr. Bosić, you still belong here, so, secretary, do we have a quorum? We have a quorum. Okay. The president of the Democratic Front Club asked for, Mr. Bećirović, a break so.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18823	Well, I explained it to you. Obviously, you're working on another Rules of Procedure, not the one adopted in Parliament, and we don't think it's justified to take off this item of the agenda. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18824	Thank you. Uh, we're moving on with our work. So point nine, Ad. Nine. Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption, the BiH Ministry of Justice material, issue: 01-50-19-1344/17, dated 25.05.2017. (vote) We agreed at an extended college session, and we unanimously made a proposal for a conclusion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on that at the end of the session. Point 10 is, Ad. Ten. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2016, the Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-16-1-1382/17, dated 31.05.2017. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18828	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, it might be a good idea for us to be first respected V.D. The prosecutor addresses Parliament so that we can discuss the proposal afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18829	So if you're okay with it, there's no need to vote, is there? And if the esteemed chief prosecutor's office is ready, then I give her my word. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18830	Good afternoon. I welcome you all. As has been said, I am acting as chief prosecutor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Gordana Tadić. Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Presidency, I have the opportunity and I use it to address you this time and to clarify the 2016 information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. You all know that for the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2016 it was very difficult. This stellar, refers, i.e. Information, for 2016. By 29 September 2016, the institution was managed by the suspended chief prosecutor Goran Salihović, and from 29 September to the end of the year, so here I am, 10 months later, headed by this institution. 58 Given the proceedings against the suspended chief prosecutor, disciplinary and criminal, I will not talk about it, given the presumption of innocence. Despite all the difficulties I encountered during that period, unresolved human relations, numerous cases I encountered in the Office of the Chief Prosecutor's Office, the situation was stabilised by the end of 2016, and the cases were distributed to all prosecutors, and they were at work from that moment on. I will now briefly, although I don't like numbers and it has never been my intention, I appreciate the quality of the quantity and I believe that this institution, or the BiH Prosecutor's Office, must do the most complex and qualitative things in relation to all other prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I will still, given these problems we had, to read certain statistics, very briefly, which you have in your Information as well. In the past year, the BiH Prosecutor's Office has filed 194 indictments against 375 people, and in the Special War Crimes Department, there have been 41 indictments brought against 114 people, Special Branch for Organized Crime, Business Crime, Corruption and Terrorism 86 charges against 179 persons and Section III 66 indictments against 81 people. However, the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office does not apply only to bringing charges, and I would never measure the work of such an institution in such a way that all cases in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be resolved in one of the laws envisaged, which is either by pressing charges or by order not to carry out an investigation, by suspending the investigation or otherwise, and, for example, by giving otherwise, to the prosecutions responsible. The average standard for last year reached is 138.97%, with the quality of the indictments in the last year being 94.3%. On the basis of the indictments of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2016, 177 verdicts, 164 of them were convicted, and the percentage of the convictions was 93%. Despite all of this, the results of last year could have been better if what happened to us had not happened, and for the next period we have our own set goals as well as in which direction we are going to improve the results of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and how we also influence the fact that the situation in the judiciary is raised to a higher level. One of the goals is to achieve even better work results, which depend, of course, on the law enforcement agencies that follow our work, and on providing international legal assistance in certain cases. It is still very important to preserve the stability of the institution, because the instability of the institution, and not to say instability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, has led to these, too, the situation that took place last year. One of our basic tasks is to preserve the stability of the institution and work solely on the basis of the Constitution and the law. All cases in the BiH Prosecutor's Office against any reported person are handled in the same way, and if it comes to the knowledge that prosecutors or employees are working differently from how we have outlined it, there will continue to be disciplinary proceedings, because we are moving to address the issue of corruption and other failures first in our institution, and what has been done so far, and I believe that so should everyone be responsible within their institutions. Now I'm going to say something about public perception. Public perception of the work of the entire judiciary, including the BiH Prosecutor's Office, is mainly based on media knowledge. I propose to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that, given that most of their rights are exercised in local communities and that most of the crimes and other acts relating to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are resolved in municipal or municipal courts and cantonal prosecutions, to make sure that all cases in the jurisdiction of the BiH Prosecutor's Office are done in accordance with the Constitution and law and in the same way to all registered persons. Accurate information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office can only be obtained from our institution, and everything else can be damaged by cases that are under way, including those against which cases are open. Thus, this harms everyone, leading to certain things being transferred from political life to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and we are here to act only repressively after a criminal act is committed in our jurisdiction. 59 Corruption has not been defined as a particularly criminal offence in Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal laws, but it extends through almost all acts of organised crime, economic crime, corruption, and terrorism. This by speaking for the reason that perhaps in the next period, as part of the amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act, it should be taken into account that this is concrete, because when a simple citizen is told corruption, he usually thinks about receiving, giving bribes or other crimes, or that is some imaginary word for them that they can't understand, but they think it's something bad for the judiciary, even for all of us who are here. In this case, I believe that certain educations should be done, that legal experts from this area should explain these concepts and that it should be properly explained to citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are not involved in this business what corrupt crimes are, which are their characteristics. That these items must prove their imagination. That these are acts mainly involving persons who have certain positions and who, if they have the imagination of committing a crime, are very skillfully hiding evidence of this. I must also say that the crimes of corruption are not only prescribed by Bosnia and Herzegovina's Penal Code, but are prescribed in all criminal laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that therefore all the burden and cannot, I would say unwarranted criticism, cannot be borne by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. In my opinion, the best prosecutors are those who do their cases without a great public exposure, and the results of their work are a justifiable verdict or other final judicial decisions, because through the prosecution's decisions from the application to the final prosecutor's decision, other than resolving the case, human rights issues, and in the next period, we will step up the work on cases of false reporting, because some of the applications may be filed for various reasons, and not for committing a certain criminal offence. Now I'd like to say something about the Special War Crimes Department because we have three departments in our D.A. and the first department is the War Crimes Department. I would like to point out that in this case we need your help. At this point, it is a matter of changing the State Strategy to work on war crimes cases. According to the current Strategy for War Crimes cases, all war crimes cases are concentrated in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The amendments to the State Strategy for War Crimes cases, which include me and my associates, among other things, should facilitate the flow of the case towards district and cantonal prosecutors, the Brcko District Prosecutor's Office, and that regional co-operation should be improved because this is what we need. We, the BiH Prosecutor's Office is truly committed to regional co-operation because without it these cases really, part of the case could not be completed. I would like to point out that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, apart from war crimes cases, means the prosecution of perpetrators of war crimes, deals with the issue of exhumation. We're the only ones working on exhumation cases. I would point out here that, as far as exhumation cases are concerned, there are not enough resources in the budget to work on these cases this year. I found such a situation last year in the ninth month, but I quickly intervened with the BiH Ministry of Justice, the BiH Ministry of Finance, the BiH Council of Ministers found solutions to round up last year even though there are still unpaid accounts from last year. This was also reported by members of the BiH presidency last year because I had to react quickly so that this one, first of all, human activity and human work would be rounded up and that there were no obstacles in that part, at least in that part, that we could finish these items. I want to say that I am committed and that I am the head of the Special War Crimes Department for three and a half years, that we have been working equally and truly committed to doing so, no matter who is reported, who is damaged, and that we, on a daily basis, have meetings with the victims' associations in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that this is one of our goals, and even though it is only evidence in our criminal procedure to turn to this one human business, because lately 60 people have been looking for more than 7,000 missing persons. Sometimes already damaged mothers, wives, children are asking enough to find out who is missing, and criminal prosecution to continue in accordance with this State Strategy to work on war crimes cases, because it is clear that we have to do the most complex cases, and that less complex cases are done by county and cantonal prosecutions. As I speak for the first time, I would like to introduce you further that the BiH Prosecutor's Office is working on an audit of skeletons and we have 11 skeletons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are postmortem remains of the past war and we may be looking for persons in fat and individual tombs, and they are actually found in these skeletons, or morgues. And here we have good co-operation with the Institute for Missing Persons and the International Commission for Missing Persons, and there have been significant results in this segment. It is the same initiative by the BiH Prosecutor's Office on the basis of which it started. Also, on this occasion, I want to thank all of you, both the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the approved funds for the adaptation of the Federal MUP building, which is located in a complex of judicial institutions, which will be used by the BiH Prosecutor's Office and which now includes the employees of the Department of Organized Crime, Business Crime, Corruption and Terrorism. I hope that together we will speed up the activities of this project, given that the new Prosecutor's Office building, financed by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council project, will be completed by the end of autumn. After all these jobs have been completed by prosecutors and employees, who now have 243 together, they will have conditions for work prescribed by European standards, because we are now working under very difficult conditions. Some of our employees are also located in the basement rooms. I thank you for delaying this point regarding the full judiciary, is it, and work, because I am today the only representative, as I would say, of the judiciary here. I am pleased that these conclusions will come, as I understand it, to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Court of BiH and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, and we will certainly contribute to that and give answers to what is asked of us. I expect a constructive debate from you, we accept all positive criticisms in order to improve the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and I am here to answer your questions, except for questions on specific subjects that are in work. I thank you again, I apologize if it was a little longer, but I needed to say this.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18831	Nothing, thank you. You first address Parliament, so this is nothing, some unusual deviation from the time our guests have. Thank you very much, if you're finished, of course. The word has a respected representative, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18832	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for having a word in my session that I don't understand by any segment, because everything we do is out of the Rules of Procedure. But I hope that this will be fixed in the next period, because that way of work says that we are not legalists, but illegalists, and that we do not act by law. But let's get back to the agenda. Your Honor, I don't want you to take this as an attack on you and your personality, but I just want to point out some of the things that I, as a citizen of this country, seem absurd, illogical and something that results in economic poverty and economic destruction of this country. As a citizen of this country, under the 61st full name Zaim Backović, I have sent a number of presentations to your prosecution. The last play is about Hidriu Linden. I've sent e-mails to you, I don't mean you personally, to the D.A., to the Federal Prosecutor's Office, to the Cantonal, to the Financial Police, to the SIPA. Only one institution answered – we wait if the prosecution gives us. During that time, Hidria Linden pulled out the money, shut down the company and fired the workers. They bought a company for zero, invested zero, sold it for tens of millions by forming a fictitious firm called the Island, the Islands transferred all the property, and left the workers in that so fictitious firm that it was. That money from a company called the Island transferred to Slovenia, the island company shut down and shut down this company as well. In that place, the entire village of Workers without a job has now come under way. We're the only country in the environment, in Europe, that doesn't own a company that's going to do bar service, here's what we're breathing in here, air conditioning. That's where the company was shut down. This building when the air conditioning stops won't have anyone to service it, it'll have to change it. We'll have to buy from Hidria from Ljubljana. And your D.A. didn't respond. I'd like to be told why, how is that possible if I specifically cited all the steps that have been taken. But it's not one company, I've referred them to a larger number. And I didn't get one answer, or if I've already falsely accused someone, that I'm invited. That's one segment, that's when it comes to economic crime. You know, we chase down chickens, and we leave the elephants alone. So the shower went even though the reports were before what happened, so the SCC took us the money for the roads and so on. That's what I can talk about here for hours. The second segment is political murder. I'm a direct witness to the murder of Joza Leotar, which means a discreet witness. That blue Polo, there's me, my wife, and my baby, who's been cut off by a geller's ear. And I witnessed at the trial that was conducted at the Cantonal Court in Sarajevo with a simple incredible structure that the bloody man who took off and asked for help, never his words, ring me today, died Jozo, to testify that he was one of those who arranged to kill Jozo, and he was all bloody. That's amazing stuff. And to this day it's not resolved. And about the one I said ran off with the bag, no one asked me a word. One of them got out of that car so fast with some kind of black bag that it's amazing. For him, no one asked me a word, not a word. Or the Halilović family case. He's working with the State's Attorney's office, and then he puts him down on Cantonal, and cantonal returns him to the State. Although all the expertise has been done, although all the ballistic findings have been done, if all of this is done? Or, right now, I can list as many cases as you want. The fact that we classic killers and those who kill each other for drugs get caught quickly is not commendable. It would be commendable to capture those who influence this country. I knew Joza personally, and I hung out with him, and it has nothing to do with war, no war, no after war, it's private family relations, and I know the quality of man. When it comes to war crimes, I'm afraid that in this country, we're going to be digging each other's eyes just because of the way we present and work in the prosecution. We need to get out and tell people when someone is being accused, or when charges are being filed, or when a public investigation is being conducted, because our investigations have become public. I can't figure out that the paper knows before the ones the investigation is about. How can a newspaper know that before? They can only know the information they get from the D.A.'s office. I cite my example, I am keenly interested in how it is possible that when I am invited from the SIPA that, by order of the prosecution, a search of my apartment will be carried out, I come to my apartment and I have four television teams waiting for me. Who informed them? You tell me. And that's very interesting which four television teams, as they got, so none of them were from the Federation, to say it right away, the four were standing at the door of my apartment. How is that possible? Where did they get that information? And they called me by phone, good afternoon, good afternoon, will you come, say yes, I'll be right there. There's four TV teams standing there, and the whole bitch about it. But the D.A. didn't say what it was about, so it didn't even check any further, but the application says there are records, and 62 separates from the whole statement itself – there are records and they're stored, and they're not said – the records and operating logs that are in the military archives. They left that out. And based on this, ma'am, after that, my wife had three heart attacks and had the most severe heart surgery possible. Just explain to me why they're doing this, if I'm here and I've never gone anywhere, but I'm willing to make every statement and give anything at any time. Do I have the right to sue you for the heart attack of my wife and those who came in with socks and guns, 18 of them in a three-bedroom apartment? I'm very interested in that. But that's not one case, that's a lot of cases. Of course, you're doing one of the hardest jobs in this country, one of the hardest jobs in this country. I don't want to talk about what I'm through, because part of my family was, not today, but he was very attached to the D.A., to those states, not these, , very tied up. [[Employee is warned on time]] So I know which one is 'Cause [[Employee is warned on time]] Or innocent. [[Employee is warned on time]] You will inflict evil upon an innocent and destroy the families As it was destroyed in dozens of cases, dozens of families, and the elephants are, I told you, [[Employee is warned on time]] still at large [[Employee is warned on time]] The Privatisation Act, today in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will present it here... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18833	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18834	Just one sentence, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18835	Well, I mean, I type you ten times.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18836	Please, one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18837	You didn't even...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18838	Under contracts signed today, there are no unemployed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. How much they guaranteed when they were buying... that they would hire.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18839	Thank you, Mr. Backović, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18840	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18841	Thank you. So, the discussion is not shortened, ten minutes is a discussion and don't break the deadline, you'll be stopped right at the start of the deadline break. In 10 minutes, everything can be said. Here you are, Mr. Arnaut, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18842	I thank the chairman. I really ask you, then, consistently, to apply the Rules of Procedure. You just put on a vote point that wasn't allowed at all. Therefore, Article 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure clearly states – At each session after the agenda is set, the House will first discuss all issues that are on the agenda, and after the debate on all points, a vote on materials will be held according to the order of the adopted points, meaning that all issues on the agenda will be discussed. We had the Council of Ministers' information on the agenda and you didn't allow a debate about it. And it's really inadmissible, then a man can go 38 seconds and you insist on the Rules of Procedure. And indeed we insist that you consistently apply the Rules of Procedure, not in the way that suits you or your party colleagues, because it is not the role of the chairman to act in a party way, but to treat everyone independently. And this today has shown indeed that you do not enjoy the trust of the majority in this House. The only thing that saves you is that the SNSD and, here, part of the HDZ is now insinuating the nebulous reasons for your shift. And you're only here for SNSD. And I can no longer accept such an inconsistencies, inconsistencies, or inapplication of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you indeed that if you will apply the Rules of Procedure to do so consistently, not to save Mr. Zvizdić or anyone else or sanction Mr. Backović or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18843	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18844	My esteemed colleague, Damir Arnaut, therefore, you do not know what my reasons are, therefore, and you do not know that they are nebulous. You know, even SNSD didn't state his reasons if you followed well, he was just looking for something. So, you don't know my reasons, and don't say that they're nebulous until you hear them, don't make me, don't make a picture wrong. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18845	Asim Sarajlić, a representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18846	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Here, I rarely answer, but I have to correct Mr. Arnaut. So, you didn't decide, Dom decided, you're the proposal of the narrow college brought out and Dom's decided. And to correct Mr Arnaut, therefore, did not elect party colleagues here, but rather citizens with 30.007 votes, and he is not only here thanks to the SNSD. On the contrary, you are here by the will of your party chief who put you on the confiscation list, so you are here today in Parliament. Of course, it's in accordance with the law, and of course it's legitimate, and of course we're all equal here, but don't respect anyone here for something that doesn't stand and use this... situation for some political purposes, and we know that you're also part of the Council of Ministers and that you're part of the 64 ruling majority in every commission, in every ministry, you know very well how to protect your interests when it comes to your party and your staffing and I can really testify about it. So I ask you not to insinuate in such a diabolical way the chairmanial initiative of the SNSD which is not just today, which is from before, and from the past even summons, and, uh, you may be trying to court some who are not here today in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18847	Thank you. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18848	Since I discuss more or less at each session and at very many points of the agenda, I do not think it can be argued that I am trying to talk to someone, before someone who first answers the word in two and a half years tries to reach someone, and that is Mr Sarajalić, for the first time, here, in two and a half years, except when you were a rapporteur when the Council of Ministers was appointed, in front of the committee in charge. Uh, it means so much about courtship. And it's interesting that you only do that when I point out the fact that we here have one symbiosis in action. So, it's true, two years and something, as much as your wordlessness lasts this SNSD initiative towards Mr Džaferović, and that is, by the principle of mine, druigue. It's literally that, and it saves Mr. Džaferović, just like your Mr. Izetbegović saved Mr. Dodik last year when he gave him a financial injection at that Bark café in East Sarajevo. And that's why you called today. This is really great that we heard Asim Sarajlić after two and a half years in this House. This is really the first time, and it's one big event that really deserves attention. Look out, so it's obvious that this mention of this symbiosis between Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Dodik and the symbiosis between Mr. Dodik and Mr. Izetbegović last year in that pub when it was a financial injection, it was obviously so much, so, well, it was true that it even made Mr. Sarajlić come forward for the first time in two and a half years. Here, we really attended one big event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18849	All right, distinguished representative Asim Sarajlić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18850	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. It is obvious that this is July 2017, it is obvious that the next year is electoral, so Mr Arnaut, the distinguished Mr Arnaut you are a prominent lawyer, a kind of parliamentarian with broad knowledge international, but you cannot behave arrogantly and you cannot turn the facts around. So, in the coming time, you will hear very much Asim Sarajlić and this today's enthusiasm will, if Bog does, and continues, but the insult of the chairman and, behold, in correcting the wrong quote, You who most appeal to the Rules of Procedure, place certain facts that have nothing to do with the wrong allegations, are just talking about your intention and your intensity to turn things in the other direction. Of course, that we will be heard, if Bog does, I have acted as an MP of the opposition, or a representative of the opposition, and supported your ministers, and your staff, and your solutions and your proposals here in Parliament, of course, which are in the spirit of joint action, but obviously that this joint action is no more, so we will appear to be hearing more these days. Thank you. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18851	Thank you. Mr. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18852	I thank the chairman. So, given how Mr Sarajlić said that we are entering the election year, that is why we will now hear more from him in this coming year. So it's not enough to be, is it, to be elected to Parliament and take, this, participation in discussions, but it takes an election year for us to hear from the elected MP, and then the only goal, is to impose a logical conclusion, to be re-elected and to spend two and a half years, three years not talking, so we hear him again before the end of that next term, which you already have this one. I didn't quite understand, you said you were acting like an MP to the opposition, uh, now I don't know, I mean, I'm having a hard time from the session at the session counting 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, in the end only Mr. Džaferović looks at that club of yours, right? Anyway, I'm glad we heard you today, I didn't even know how you sound on the microphone, so here's the one, every session I learn something. And, uh, and as for insulting the chairman, I'm sure the chairman didn't understand it that way, because he'd certainly react, after all there's a Codex and I never insult anyone when it comes to these discussions. And the fact that you don't like it when I point out some facts, like the fact that you haven't spoken to us all this time, it's really not an insult, it's facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18853	Thank you very much. I ask all persons who have applied for the replicas and the violation of the Rules of Procedure to give up the discussion, I beg you. So if you can give up I beg you, therefore, to give up, I will only say two sentences. Mr. Sarajlić, please, so we left the debate, I asked you, thank you for respecting my request. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to preserve the dignity of this House and I am doing it from the first moment on in the way I know and can do it. In this House, if I'd responded to any indiscipline or violation of the Rules of Procedure, we'd only be dealing with it, we wouldn't have done it at all, we wouldn't have done the job we're supposed to do. And I'm going to keep acting like this and I'm going to put up with all of this, and I'm really old enough to know that I have to be patient here. Each of us paints himself with his own discussion, the public observes it, and each of us shows what he is and the public sees each of us as he is. And I won't say anything anymore. This is the highest legislative authority in this country, and it needs to work that way and it has that capacity. We continue the discussion on the agenda point, the distinguished representative Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18854	I am pleased to see these stabilising effects of the grand Bosniak coalition and in the BiH Parliament, but here, to stick to the topic, these effects are obviously being passed on to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I say again, like my colleague Backović, don't take it personally because you've only been there for a few months, but that's 66 which is also the problem with the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which has become a political institution and more than this Parliament and what you have prosecutors, honors exceptions, who defend the interests of their leaders, political leaders and party colleagues, and not defend the interests of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think a lot has been said in last session, a special session on the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I hope you will honor all the conclusions. I'll look back on only one part of what you've been saying, because you're coming from the area, from the war crimes department, I'd ask one question if it's possible to answer V.D. The D.A.'s office. I'm only interested in – do you classify objects that you drop to a lower level of processing in these statistics as objects that have been solved? Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18855	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18856	I thank the chairman. Well, as Honorable counterpart Bećirović said, we said more or less at the last session about the prosecution's work as well. First of all, when I talk about this report, I would like to point out at the very beginning that most of this report refers to work while at the head of the BiH Prosecutor General's Office, Mr Goran Salihović, whom we had the opportunity to watch from this pay phone that promises us a very successful fight against crime and corruption, to end some cases. Unfortunately, until today we have not seen the end of these investigations. Without the intention of really talking about any investigation or any case, or of influencing whether or not it will be made, I think that all of us as citizens want all of those major affairs that are being monitored in the media to get their first step of an epilogue in the D.A.'s office, a prosecutor's decision, one or another, whether there's no evidence, an investigation or an indictment is being dropped. The worst situation is that investigations don't work out. I'm going to be free and I really have to say one thing here that bothers us all, we've had a recent lack of passports, right? Let's remember in 2014 we had a statement by the chief prosecutor in the media acknowledging that the case was opened according to the audit report. Afterwards, we had his statement that he was, here's the thing, he's about to be charged. I mean, I really, maybe there's nothing there, and I'm not really getting into it, but it needs to be over. If this was not about obtaining forms for ID cards and driver's licenses no basis for doubting that some illegality should be put in place, neither should the people who took part in this withdrawing in the media, in the mud, if there was a crime, then the subject should be given up for further treatment. Because the worst thing is when in this country, we definitely all admit here that the biggest problem of this country is crime and corruption, some of the cases are an epilogue, and I'm not going to say what, some large objects, but when there's no adequate reaction, this isn't just about the BiH Prosecutors, we can't just blame them, you know there's entity prosecutors, there's both county and cantonal, then you get the situation to become completely legitimate illegal behavior, people start to think of it as something normal. I'm very often amazed, like all my colleagues here probably, when we see what kind of freedom people allow themselves and what they do. Here, I asked a parliamentary question this morning to my esteemed colleague Zvizdić, you know, it's unthinkable for me to call a tender, draw a building in a tender, so it's nice to draw, because one of them is here, because they say within 300 meters, it's a building of former Jahorin Insurance at the Palace, illegally that 67 institutions are in charge, completely illegal, and nothing. So what, so they're probably safe in advance. Anyone normal and with any common sense would go by logic responsible for this, this is a crime, this is abuse of official position and authority. They don't, they do. Why? Because in this country, we have legal uncertainty, because anyone who has these predispositions to crime and corruption of thought will end it one way or another. And that's why I think it's crucial to the role of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I liked it when the chief prosecutor on the Constitutional Commission, it's the first time that someone from the judiciary shows up on a committee, its rank, is usually sent to deputies, assistants, etc., said it would work in a way that the law applies equally to everyone. And in something like that, I think it will have a general consensus and support for everyone in this country. Because all of us who live in this country and want to stay here to live and above all, we politicians who, here I am going to give freedom and say that mine, here's my colleague and we're not corrupt, our interest is to make a difference between those who have committed illegality and us who don't and don't have nuts in our pockets. And as far as we're concerned, you're free to have your hands off, not just thieves from other parties to arrest, but from ours, you won't hear a word from us. Anyone who has sinned against the law should answer. And that's the position of the chief prosecutor I really support. Further, for, like, I'm about to repeat what I've been saying and on the commission, it's obvious that we have some problems with laws, that some legal matters need to be improved, that we need to improve the Criminal Law, that we need to improve the Code of Criminal Procedure, that we don't even get people who are convicted of some criminal acts to get that punishment until, I don't know, six months or a year, so it's a substitute for fine, and then even the persons who went to the side of the war. Let's see how to improve it, what to change in the law. Let's see why, here we have last time had a general one information on the state of processing of these items, what's being subdued under corruption, so we saw that most of these, conditionally convicted 401 persons, of 125, means in general, not just this year, I think it was 2013.–2015. and refers to the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of 125 people sentenced to prison only 79 were sentenced to a sentence below the prison minimum. I think the state has to give the judiciary a strong repressive mechanism if we want to deal with this monster, and that's our biggest problem. And I would therefore like, in the next report, despite these recommendations, suggestions from the Prosecutor's Office, to get suggestions where we should change, to have an interactive relationship between Parliament and, not just the Prosecutor's Office, to think of other judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Another thing that I'm interested in, and I think we should talk about, I noticed one thing by reading in the media who's the handling prosecutor in which the case is in court, mostly these big, heavy cases are in the hands of the same people, and then I was wondering, does the prosecution have a problem, because we know how the prosecutors are elected, whether the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which should solve the most complex problems of organised crime in this country, has a problem with insufficiently professional people, with people who don't have enough prosecutorial training? So to know if that's the problem of the prosecution too, to look for a solution and for that problem to strengthen that the BiH Prosecutor's Office really does have the best prosecutors, and not to have someone who does, I really don't want to demean anyone, who has two or three years of work experience, and you don't really have enough people who can deal with such difficult problems. On the committee, I asked the distinguished Ms. Tadić if, I am finishing, whether I am running out of time, did not, I have another minute, and the issue of co-operation with police agencies, to see if there is enough co-operation, whether police agencies are effective, whether they respond quickly, whether the stables are quick answers, whether they are always on time and in a quick manner towards the demands of the handling prosecutors. So I think that this Parliament, and not only the Prosecutor's Office, but other judicial institutions as well, we need to open up interaction and work together to get this country out of the huge problem it's found and because of which it starts, I'm afraid, slowly 68 loses and the population, and young people lose their perspectives leaving this country. They're leaving, why? Because they don't trust politicians or the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18857	Thank you very much. So, before I give my word to Mr. Backović for correcting the wrong quote, therefore, only that one notice, so the College decided it was until 19:00, including the vote on the points until then, so by 6:30, closed. I would ask that this proposal be prepared for conclusions regarding the old foreign savings, because we should only vote on that now that we have voted and those points that we pass by 6:30. The violation of the Rules of Procedure Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18858	It's not exactly a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it is an explanation. In fact, if you decided to do it by 7:30, that doesn't have to be a problem, you just had to say in the second part of that sentence that we continue tomorrow at nine, ten, not without any reason to interrupt the session at half past eight and continue, I don't know when, at the end of July of the month. I'm just asking you, so if you intend to stop letting your colleagues know that we're very well paid and that we come to work tomorrow and finish the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18859	So you're definitely going to make a decision about it, this is the position of the College, and when we continue, we have a plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18860	I suggest you cut it down to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18861	The program, it's hard for us to cut to half the agenda now, some will... full discussion, some.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18862	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18863	Yeah, let it go like this, all the same. Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18864	I thank the chairman. It is, however, this, infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 80, so the chairman may interrupt the session only if he considers that he is unable to maintain order during the session of the same, then he may interrupt the session and decide on the continuation of the work when the terms of the House are obtained, the House session cannot last for more than an hour. This, therefore, can also give you a break, it is according to Article 83, but neither the chair nor the College can decide, uh, when 69 will end the session unless it is in accordance with Article 80 when maintaining order in question or 83 when it comes to a break. And I can only support what counterpart Bećirović said that if there are no conditions then we should continue the session tomorrow, and not wait, so next month, because, precisely for these reasons he mentioned, everyone here is earning a salary and there is no reason not to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18865	Okay, I'll put up with it. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18866	Dear colleague Pandurević, I hope it's just a slip, only a slip, you know that former prosecutors, from Barašin, and Salihović, also said that uncompromisingly, not taking care of who the parties are, who is which political forces, and we have today what we have. I'm hoping that an esteemed lady will really do so, but no, that flossula should be avoided, because tomorrow she may have other implications. I also hope that you said as a slip, even if you were from my political party, and I'm going to say, even if it was me, it doesn't matter who the party belongs to, even if it was my child, if this country is destroyed through various forms, these people must be removed and sanctioned. So it doesn't matter which party they belong to, they don't know, ma'am, those parties, they serve as flow water heaters through the money they lag in kipar. And I hope that we will not go to that floscule Mr. Čengić, who took an oath Friday as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and went to a press conference and said – don't forget the citizens we came to power, to point out who, SDA, SDS and HDZ, since Monday in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the rule of law. Until that Friday, it was illegal. And when they came, there was a chaotic state. I just hope it doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18867	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18868	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I have to say that this is the third one, it seems to me, the D.A.'s report on which, here, I have the opportunity to speak and that in a way that I'm a representative of my opinions and visions about him and I can say, therefore, that I felt for the first time, whatever that means, and hopefully it won't be misunderstood, that there seems to be bread, so maybe we'll come to a solution that we have a strong rule of law and that this is the prosecution's commitment right now, so, as it is. Perhaps, Mr. Backović said that maybe we don't have to use that flossula. I experienced it on the Constitutional Commission and I think it was there, that it took an hour only to discuss this report, about, I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, more or less, and that there was really great information, strong information, responsible information that was given to us as agents. If I had felt appreciation that I had never been in these before, I do not have much experience in this House on this subject, but I did think so. And this is the 2016 Report, and I know that we can't cover everything we're interested in, there's been a lot of stories of colleagues about events that, of course, aren't the subject of the 2016 Reports, but I, too, have been speaking on this to the Constitutional Commission and I know that I can't find 70 in the 2016 Report, but I would like, therefore, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office as a roof in some way the Prosecutor's Office in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which in some areas and the results of all the Bosnia and Herzegovina prosecutors's work in its work. So, I've turned my attention to some issues, some questions, and I've got some answers and today I'm not just looking for some of them at all, uh, here's a little bit with my colleagues to share, so, and maybe I expect the D.A.'s office, and she's the D.A. herself, V.D. The prosecutor said she intends to take care of some of these topics in the future work of the prosecution. One of these topics was, therefore, in the area of exhumation of the victims of the last war, and I, for a year and a few days ago, asked the question of false testimony, not only in the area, so, the discovery of the tomb or mass graves, but at all, some events, and the prosecutor said somewhere before the end of her speech that she would pay attention to false testimony, false testimony, false testimony, false accusations in all areas, and this one concerning war crimes. So, I mentioned the Bugojna case where over thirty times certain witnesses were giving evidence that there were bodies from, already known to you public, killed people from the Camps in Bugojn. And it seems to me that sometimes it can be considered that those people who give it may have an intention and that they are interfering with the investigation, so to say, to draw attention where I shouldn't, even though the prosecutor is me and there, and the former prosecutor even in that answer, I actually got when he left, the answer to that question, said that he was particularly working with witnesses, with special i.e., because yet the main goal is to find what he wanted, and I respect and respect it. But it also seems to me that sometimes it can be a turning point where it doesn't have to be, so I've been given assurances that it will be taken care of, but that this is a matter of special attention. Secondly, what I wanted to draw attention to, this, when it comes to this report, is of course for 2016, as I said, but the prosecution said in one place, when it comes to war crimes, that they have one central database of cases that are documented in this and that way, so that they have a certain status in the BiH Prosecutor's Office or any other prosecution. I've talked about this subject before and asked for answers, and I haven't received an adequate answer, so even when a person, not me as an agent, when I can't get such information about certain events that I mentioned, for example. Miletici, for example. The murder of Ivan Ivoš in Sebesic upstairs, for example in Dusina near Busovaca, for example Bikoša, etc., in Central Bosnia where I come from, then I asked how can an ordinary citizen, or a member of a family of certain groups, a group of people who have such persons or know about it come to know what is with the subject they are interested in. So it's clear to me that in terms of a case, as the prosecutor said, it can't get in, so because of the investigation and this and that, but it would have to be made available to the public somewhere. You said yourself, and just now here in your speech, that this should be a different relationship to the public, that people who are interested in any kind of practice and education or anything, that they can find out somewhere else about what they're interested in, whether this object is ever documented, what is with it, what is the status, and that's the basic data that people need. They don't need what investigations you're doing, how many witnesses you are, etc. ...of course there is, you won't give it to them, but you should and should know, so if they're interested in how far that object is. For example. I'm talking about this little Ivoš whose mother buried him herself, and when he told you that I think that the tears would go to you as they took her money, she gave a statement, so to tell her where her child was, then eventually she buried it herself, he was such a big guy that, yes, she couldn't bury it herself, one member of the BiH Army helped her bury him, of course the others killed him, but now I'm not going to get into it and now, but it's one, one drama, so people who can't know what's going on with these items. The second, third thing that I have been interested in and related to this report, and all the reports that will be placed on us and which have been placed on us, and past and others, and in the future will be given to us for consideration, is when it comes to this Department of Terrorism, that is, this area of terrorism, so the BiH Prosecution is, as I said, in some ways a roof institution and I expect one very, 71 very serious approach to all topics, all areas of their activities and work, and also in the area of particularly terrorism lately, of course one of the strongest, if not the strongest topic of everyday life. Because this question of terrorism means in all reports, and even in 2016, and in previous reports, you don't, sometimes you touch some of the links that happened before. So, hardly, I'm no expert in this area, it's hard to realize that you'll come up with a solution if you don't actually remember the terrorist actions that were in '97. In Travnik, killing the return officers, they were police officers, watch out, those were representatives of the state, at a police station in Bugojn, a car bomb in Mostar, so simply what it was then. So if it's not terrorism, I don't know what it is. So neither do you know where these investigations have stopped, which is what counterpart Pandurević was saying. So, it would be good to say that the procedure has been stopped, there is no evidence or I don't know what, simply to stop the public from manipulating it, and these are very serious cases, in my opinion, terrorism, I'm not from the profession and I can't argue it, but of course I expect it to be tied up and that this issue is being resolved both with you and with other bodies, therefore investigative, in a way that, that you connect these activities, because I don't believe you'll come to a solution,...it's just a phenomenon from half a year ago. So, or, yes, that something's only been going on in the last year, it seems to me that there's something constantly happening here. And on the other hand, I, therefore, welcome and support what you said that you would run a little bit more attention towards both these false testimony and false registrations for, you know why me, yes, now I hope, neither the public nor my colleagues would get me wrong, means there's some kind of general climate anywhere, and even here in Parliament, that you take just one object, you know with it mantrates and you're talking about some of the knowledge that you know, and you're asking the prosecution to process it. And if that's what the D.A.'s processing, you're of course satisfied, but you're not going in at all if you have any data on it, did you do it how, in fact, you should, what research is and what the data says? We're creating a picture, we're creating a picture of one fear, so I'm saying that in the last eight, nine months since you came here, I've had some faith that the D.A.'s office is going to let you go for at least one time to see, to prove what you said here you're going to do yourself, so you're really going to go to justice that no one is sacred to you, and you don't need to be anyone's sacred and I agree with your colleagues. But it's also one thing for all the public and all the places that only when you say something, so it's a crime, why no one has prosecuted it, like it's, like, you're at some end and you're supposed to work, only when someone says that the D.A.'s office has to react immediately. You need to do your job and I'm giving you my support and hopefully a colleague who, from my party, but I'm also afraid that if we continue like this and we treat the D.A. like this, we're slowly going to some kind of police state. You know, it's everyone's fault, everyone has the right to say what someone else did, every pretty label without any proof. Clearly, I congratulate my colleague Backović, I also told him on the Constitutional Court, personally he went to the D.A.'s office to hand over evidence, documents, and it has his own name and last name, and that's fine, it's fine, but you have people who only talk, and not to tell the media and the public that everything is being perceived and you've said quite well that the answers can be obtained from you and from the prosecutions of municipal, county and there should be sought, we will naturally look for them. And don't mind, so we don't have a way to give you a report, that something has consequences when we receive or don't receive information, we don't choose you, but I think it's a good way to communicate with the MPs, you're doing well, it seems to me, I congratulate you. As far as I'm concerned, therefore, I will report.../sound warning for the MP/... and I am giving you support if this.../sound warning for the MP/. ... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18869	Thank you. 72 Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18870	My colleagues and colleagues. We, I've been here a little over two years, less likely than all of you, and during that time I've witnessed pretty bad or heavy, I'd say, co-operation with the D.A.'s office. Lately, here, I'd say, the D.A.'s been going through a kind of catharsis. One of the results of that is that I have, here's the impression, and not just me, looking from this that we have some new winds and, here, that this cooperation will hopefully be better and better in the future, and that's something that's good and that's one step forward. I would say that every step forward and everything that happens well, or what's better than yesterday, we need to give a good point here and here in this Parliament. I'm going to focus on the department and the prosecution, so that war crimes department, in one way that I'm going to say it's a particularly sensitive topic, I'd say. Everything that happens within that department, everything that happens here has direct political implications for this Parliament and this country, and that is why it is very important within that department and within these investigations, the indictments, etc., and mother one balanced, balanced non-selective approach. And here, we talked here and about future elections and election campaigns, people from my election base, to say, and these are mostly Hrvat, and as far as military formations are concerned, members of the Croatian Council of Defense, have continued and continuous objections to a selective approach in research, accusing and processing of war zones. When we see on page 23 of the 2016 table and the data that within 2016 42 indictments and 115 accused by five or six different qualifications, by five or six articles of two different laws, that I do not now enter Damjanović-Maktouf and what it carries, and of which almost half of the cases concern Article 172. The BiH Penal Code -- crimes against humanity in 18 cases and 73, so more than half of the defendants. What I am told, here, these people from my election base, that this article of the law is disproportionate to the members of the Croatian Defence Council, and that is one serious complaint. And they're asking me to problem it here, so I sort of sort of do it, because they think that we can do it, that I can do it here. My colleague Lovrinović, more than I do, and I have tried several times through the questions to get to one of the analysts in the area to be more informed, not to talk too casually, so that we can talk qualifiedly about it and ask that, if necessary and balance, to correct it in some way. Unfortunately we didn't get that data from VSTV because it's said that they don't keep that kind of statistics within their, all of their statistics. So I think, in some ways, no matter what, here, it's not good, it's good if it's possible to reason in that part of people, it's well qualified to explain that it might be one way or another, but in any case it's a very important question. I'm certainly not going to ask you here for an answer, especially an oral one, that you're evaluating me, because it's probably very difficult, this table on page 23, to tell me. I have prepared a parliamentary question where I will once again try to get, here, some qualified answers to this part which I will refer to both the Prosecutor's Office and the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council so that, I say, this one, indeed, would get full insight into that matter and that we would all, here, through this cooperation of Parliament and the Prosecutor's Office on this subject very carefully, sensitively and qualifiedly talk and work in the future. Of course, I work with different associations of these people, with people who are in different ways involved in this subject, whether the victims, or the accused, or witnesses, or otherwise involved. So, for the last time, I'm going to read a couple of sentiments that I got from one office for legal aid to people in this way, from the law firm, so I'm going to ask this as a single question – why is there no processing cases for crimes against Hrvat, and in parentheses (Uzdo, Travnik, Guča Gora, Buhi's house, Križanč's village, Bugojno, Varesh, Kakanj, Dusina, Orišta, Busčak, Stipino 73 meadows and so on, that I don't read any further? And one finding, one sentence that seems very important to me, so I'm going to leave it for the end, just consistency in the prosecution's approach, both in terms of treating evidence and in terms of legal determination of criminality, is a condition that is necessary for the achievement of equality under the law and, I would say, a general trust in the work of the judicial institutions, when we talk specifically about the work of the prosecution on this, I say, a particularly sensitive subject that always has political implications. And when they are negative, it has a very negative impact on the overall work of both this Parliament and all the social segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18871	Thank you. Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18872	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. In front of us is information about the prosecution's work for the past year, and we are witnessing that from year to year we have a rather positive trend in the work of the prosecution. A positive trend in terms of labour efficiency, perhaps minor political influence and interference in the work of the Prosecutor's Office, but for a reason I ask the question – would it be more appropriate to consider the information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council and the Court of Justice of BiH at the same session. Because we are witnessing that when we discuss the VSTV – you know we cannot influence the work of the Prosecutor's Office, when we are discussing the Prosecutor's Office – you know the Court gives such a condemning or liberating verdict and, of course, when we are discussing the Information on the work of the Court of Justice of BiH we have similar answers. But I'm asking a legitimate question -- who do these three institutions actually account for, who are they responsible for their work? Many will say, "Well, you know, we are responsible to the citizens. By whom, based on which procedures, etc., etc., etc.? You know, there's an impression in the public that some of these, these three institutions are actually power centres and that they actually have a significant political impact on the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why am I saying this? You know, it's not a rare case that we have a situation for some of the media to publish some of the events as a preparation for the work of someone in the D.A.'s office. What does that really mean? So some of the media have a significant impact on what direction certain processes are going to take, which is certainly not good. We are witnessing that, behold, several months a day, we have a constant destabilising of the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina in a way that some of the political leaders are calling for political killings. That, of course, if the media releases it may be true, it may not be, but the answer to that is everyone should give us judicial institutions. If that's true, then someone could not have influenced or not run certain political projects on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If that's not true, then someone who writes such things and imputes should definitely respond. Therefore, this is a direct link between the prosecution's work on stability, political stability in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Do you need a formal application to the D.A.'s office, because on formal application alone, he's acting eventually or he's doing enough, here's what if certain media are writing, that we have, we really have a problem. Apparently, there have been murders in the last 20 years, there are no people, people have been killed. What about who did it? The answer to such a thing that we politicians can't give, but they can give exactly the institutions involved in this business. Not to mention abuses, here we are today talking about the prosecution, over the past years we have witnessed that there have been terrible abuses in terms of good, under quotes, co-operation, between the prosecution and law enforcement agencies. We are witnesses and 74 here in Parliament, and I myself, that the prosecution was actually just an institution to cover certain actions of SIPA, Border Police, OSA, etc. This is a bad message for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is to create uncertainty, legal certainty for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is a bad message for the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How do you think investors who read will behave – in Bosnia and Herzegovina you have a number of political processes or politically motivated, not to say politically mounted processes. It means there's no security for capital. That's why, here's the question I'm asking. It would be good to have numbers and letters in the Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, of course there are, to explain to us and to the public how, in what way it is done, what is done, etc., but it also takes the last few years of parallel indicators to have in the tables to see... But, I'm saying, it's a very positive trend when it comes to the prosecution's work, and it's certainly a good thing that's going on in this country. At the last session, we had a report on the state of the judiciary with a view to fighting corruption. Gentlemen, corruption is actually a monster that threatens to bring down a complete system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is currently the biggest threat to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we saw in the last session when we were considering this as a burden, how difficult it is, no matter how important the business in Bosnia and Herzegovina is, in a way, related to corruption. Why is that? Is it really necessary for someone to report to the D.A.'s office? I don't think you should, the D.A. should follow, observe, react, process all those who are possibly in any way involved in this. Some of my colleagues and colleagues have mentioned specific cases, I wouldn't have dealt with the team, but the fact is that even through our representation issues you have many indicators of what is, how and how is it done. Last year, we listened to the chief prosecutor here, who was in a very unprincipled manner and with one view from above, so to us MPs in this House, talking about the complete absence of any political influence on the work of the prosecution, the prosecution is doing professionally, legally, without any political influence. It hasn't even been months and we're witnessing that even a conversation has been made between the attorney general and some political leaders, which is a direct political impact on the prosecution's work. I'm afraid that in the future we'll have such cases and, of course, it's not excluded, but it's certainly good that the D.A.'s had the strength to clear up with itself primarily some things, because it's a strong message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If the D.A. has the strength to clear up with himself, then it is certain that he will have the strength to clear up with those who have any ambition to influence the work of the D.A.'s office politically. Unfortunately, we're witnessing that there's more, there's more, and it's likely to be in the future. We are today witnessing that, that the prosecution had the power to prosecute two main prosecutors, meaning in previous terms. It's, I'm afraid it's a trend, but if it's a message that the D.A.'s actually dealing with itself inside, that these are turmoils in terms of fighting for positions, then it's a bad message, but if the D.A.'s sending a message that it's got the strength to clear up with internal problems and corruption, then it's certainly a positive message. That is why I say it is good that the Prosecutor's Office submits information about its work to the House of Representatives and, of course,... because we are direct representatives of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is in an indirect manner to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because who else, because here I am 12 years, 11 years in this House, and we have forced the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to submit a financial report on the donations they received from someone outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they didn't want to show it at all. I hope the D.A. doesn't have that kind of problem. What does that really mean? He who pays you, and you have a responsibility to him. For 75 years this has been the case, and for years foreign factors have affected certain politically motivated and mounted processes in which the Prosecutor's Office has, unfortunately, participated. I hope that's the past, I hope to be honest that the past and that the D.A.'s office will be the institution to cover the indecent actions of law enforcement agencies in which I, unfortunately, was the victim myself. And I hope that, here, and with the new composition of the prosecution's leadership, the prosecution will actually have the strength to clear up what they say about the political murders that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina's premises. Let once a strong nation know the truth about what was actually going on. If that's not true, then someone who imputs such things should answer, but it's obvious there were murders. It must be known what motives, who did it, etc., and not that our foreign-exhausted generals here are telling us that in, I don't know, in a month or two months, the name and last name will be revealed, etc. The generals will be, they will come, they will pass, and we will remain... troubles. [[Employee is warned on time]] So I ask you to engage further, it would certainly stabilise the political scene in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and, of course, it would be a positive message to potential investors in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18873	Thank you. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18874	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed prosecutor. I had no intention of answering but I won't talk much about this year as it stands in this report of yours, but I will say a few things that are related to the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I will certainly say that this positive trend has been going on lately, but I will not take the right to tell you who and in any way you need to prosecute any, any crime that is, because all those who have committed war crimes should answer to the judicial institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of their name and name, and regardless of who they have committed war crimes. And that should be done if possible as soon as possible, because it is a great burden on relations in our country and is a great burden on the future of this country. So it became a theme and young generations that were born after the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they are already the adult citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in principle at the moment they are persons who decide whether or not to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the very difficult topics that are burdened by society in our country. I'm going to add to that what my colleague said earlier, and it also concerns some events that some say are political murders. I uzeću take the right to ask myself what my son has to do with 22 years old with something that happened 25 years ago and why he, or other children, or similar, or current generations should be held hostage to the current topics of who, why and how he did some work that put them into political murder and which in some ways creates a political picture and situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I must say that there were non-discipline decisions in the earlier period and various arches when it came to the BiH Prosecution's decisions. I'll only say that in one or two cases. Almost the same time we had investigations for two entity presidents. They once sent special forces to a cabinet with long pipes, and Drgi told them they would not respond to a call, that he would come whenever he wanted or assess whether he would accept such a kind of call from the prosecutor's office that he did not confess. So it can't happen that in such cases you have two completely different arches. And in the end 76 it turned out that the first one they performed with long pipes was nothing to blame, and the second one was not yet found guilty, and that is not what I'm going to talk about, the BiH Prosecutor's Office will eventually say. I have, therefore, one, something that I want to share with you and the public in Bosnia and Herzegovina and where a lot of dilemmas and questions are raised since the very establishment of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, namely the declaration of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. We've had three elected prosecutors since then, they won't be offended, the D.A.'s office is still V.D., I don't want... a way, so to devalue it, all three prosecutors didn't hold their mandate. Why? Either it was the political pressure to move away, or they were committing crimes, so they had to leave, or they didn't process some that they needed to do, so they had to leave or they basically did the opposite. Most of the time, these are the dilemmas to be answered in this country. Why didn't three prosecutors, the chief prosecutor, hold the term of office? I don't want to defend either one of them individually or blame them, it should ultimately be done by the judicial institutions, or by the disciplinary prosecutor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but this is one thing, as counterpart Lovrinović would say, a sign question to which we should have an answer – what happens in the VSTV or in the Prosecutor's Office and, therefore, the main prosecutors end up. So those who are guilty should be removed, and not only prosecutors, chief prosecutors, but prosecutors, and judges, and MPs, anyone in this country who does not do his job responsibly and who, especially those who commit crimes. In the end, I have to say that we, a country that has an extremely high degree of corruption, and some indicators from an earlier period, say that only at the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina have we lost close to a billion marks. And a few days ago, I read that we're losing more than half a billion marks in the public procurement process. When those two, just put those two together, it's a huge amount of money for Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Prosecutor's Office, and the VSTV, and the judges, and we here as legislators just because of these two issues, we need to open up the possibility of making decisions, each in our jurisdiction, in order to bring these issues and that degree of corruption to a smaller level. Of course, therefore, as a legislator, we help in every sense the BiH Prosecutor's Office and allow both in financial, technical and any sense to have the capacity to oppose what one of the colleagues says eats this society. I apologize again, if I may have left this year in the D.A.'s report, but I had a need to say so. I certainly welcome this sensitive progress in the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18875	Thank you. Dear Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18876	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, the chairman of our House. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the chief prosecutor. I planned to answer, I don't have to tell you, but I will, this is an important issue, Bosnia and Herzegovina's fate depends significantly on the role of legislator and judicial authority. If this function has an intersparring function that produces efficiency, then it is for the benefit of citizens and for standardisation of the system of government that can create perspective and guarantee the European capacity of this country. What my perception was in the present relationship between this Parliament and the Prosecutor's Office was the perception of the opposing parties, each by its own means, without responsibility for the joint action of building an effective authority, in responsibility to the constitutional everyone in their position. Today 77 I see something new that makes me happy, I see a prosecutor who sits here all the time and listens very carefully to what MPs say, MPs as representatives of the citizens. That's a very good thing. I see a report that seeks to provide enough information that we have not had in some previous periods, which allowed colleagues to discuss specific issues. I welcome that, and I will support this approach. I am deeply convinced that our co-operation in our own responsibilities is necessary to increase legal certainty in the country and build an efficient system. I have said in some previous shows that sometimes there is an impression that the legislators in Bosnia and Herzegovina are all levels actually those who act as a socialist factory, produce goods for a warehouse without any knowledge of how these goods pass on the market. In the practicals of what I'm talking about, it's the fact that what we produce as laws doesn't have an effective feedback system going on in the law market, where they apply, in courts where the prosecution is, where the judges are, what should be done, what to build, where we lack what we need to be more efficient. It was seen from what we have in our capacity, here, this year's part of our session, that our legislative capacity is low, that we haven't done it effectively enough. It's part of it up to us, it's part of what they've proposed, but there's still a dimension of incentive from the judicial institutions to do what we need to do, to be effective and that the norm is applicable and that it is not opposed to the previous norm. That is why I strongly advocate the co-operation of the legislative authority and the judicial authority. I've never put it in the dimension of meddling in the intelligence of both sides. This is why today simply does not occur to me to use this address and a concrete example, because it is part of the responsibility and practical realization on the ground, but I am very interested in sharing information and supplementing what is called the framework in which we are achieving our role as legislators and judicial institutions, in this part of the Prosecutor's Office, more fully and directly. I'd even like to go to the fact that we're not going to the annual reports as the only argument between each other and the information exchange, I'm an advocate for this half-yearly debate. Today, a year in building what Bosnia and Herzegovina needs is too big for us to address the previous period and possibly... something new. To conclude, I welcome this relationship between the prosecution and the chief prosecutor's responsibility to speak openly in front of Parliament, to hear and call for a more complete... co-operation in the general framework of mutual relations to build an effective government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18877	Thank you very much. Dear Representative and Chairman of dom Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18878	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few sentences concerning the work of the institution of conductors at the state level in general and, of course, the BiH Prosecutor's Office as one of the key, key institutions. Is it the Prosecutor's Office, which has special jurisdiction as well as the Court of Justice of BiH, is neither the State Prosecutor's Office which has the possibility to manage a public prosecutor's structure at a level or within the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor the Court of Justice, but these are institutions that are at the state level, and these institutions themselves need to be given special importance. And although there is no jurisdiction of these institutions when other levels of judicial institutions are at stake, it still does not run out of 78 echoes what happens at the level of these institutions. This certainly has a very important role in the work of the other institutions. We judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina must put them in a position that they are authoritative institutions, institutions in which the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina trust, so we must bring them in a position to say that they are institutions that when something comes from those institutions that it is then and that there is no discussion. In order for this to be so, there must be principled behaviour, and principled behavior is the only behavior that is based on facts and based on the law. And just like that, no other behavior is possible, and I want to believe that that's the way it's going to be in the future, so it's the only behavior in accordance with the law, with the Constitution. The objective and responsible behaviour is the behavior that builds the credibility of these institutions, and the credibility of these institutions depends, I think, on the credibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the credibility of all other levels of judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, in carrying out this duty it must be very careful, very careful, never succumb to any pressure and always insist exclusively on facts and the law. There's a lot of attempts, there's a lot of pressure of this kind or that kind, sometimes people unconsciously with their speech produce a certain kind of pressure. The prosecution and the BiH Court must base their activities solely on facts, the law, the constitution and nothing else. I keep saying this as a parrot because I think it is the only way to build the authority and credibility of these institutions, which is what Bosnia and Herzegovina needs. And in that plan and in that direction you have the support of this House, I am convinced of that. I don't think there's any man here in the O.R. who would say anything different than what I'm talking about because it's just not possible. When we get into this situation, I think that in my own right, the objections that are sometimes and justified will fall apart, that the complaints that often fall within the scope of politicisation, which is most dangerous when it comes to the objectivity of the judiciary and the work of the judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their authority, will fall apart. So much for this one state where I need everyone together, together, to bring our judicial institutions to the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Your reports that you provide us here, or information, are not reports, we cannot adopt them because you are a special pillar of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we can take them into consideration, by law we must understand as information in which we need to recognize what it is that is our obligation to help you to do our job as successfully as possible. In this context, I also understand this year's information submitted by the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Let me also say one thing that I've said last time, I've noticed, so I failed to believe that we in Bosnia and Herzegovina have a major problem when the trial and system of the judicial authority is generally at stake, so both the prosecution and the courts, due to the inadequate arrangement of the Institute of Art. Experts of various professions are people and institutions whose findings and opinions depend directly on the outcome of court proceedings and prosecution proceedings. I don't think that's arranged properly in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I call on the Ministry of Justice, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH, therefore, the Council of Ministers when I speak about the Ministry of Justice, so the Ministry of Justice is the department of the Council of Ministers, to pay due attention to this issue. I think Bosnia and Herzegovina deserves the Law on Arts at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, even deserves the Institute of Arts. Whoever knows what this job means and what it means to be an expert in court proceedings won't be able to conclude differently from what I'm talking about. Bosnia and Herzegovina, as soon as we do that, I think we'll get to the point I was talking about in the first part of my discussion. Once again, all we ask of you is to act on the basis of the facts, based on the law, based on the Constitution and nothing else, and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18879	Thank you, Chairman. 79 Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18880	Thank you. The esteemed chief prosecutor's office, above all, I thank you for this approach, but I am also in the capacity of the chairman of the Constitutional Righteous Neighbours. And the presence of the Constitutional Commission and the House session is extremely important, extremely important not only for us as legislators to consider and consider what we can do better to strengthen judicial power, but also for the sake of the public and perceptions are important. This is special, this presence is particularly visible in situations where the Council of Ministers that we can, each of his members headed by the chairman, can be replaced by two sessions, two Houses, when so the Council of Ministers does not appear on committees, and then flees from the House session, not only from their report, but as we have seen, from ordinary parliamentary issues, and these perceptions cannot be denied. The second thing we saw, not only from these exposures on the Commission and the House today, but also from the report itself, expertise. Extremely, exceptionally, I can say this both as a lawyer and as an MP here, extremely professional, determined answers, exposure, extremely professional and quality prepared report and all of this based on law and fact. A report abounding with facts, abounding with concrete proposals, which we as a legislative authority can do to strengthen this pillar of power by a judicial one, including a report containing constructive self-critics which suggests, therefore, that no institution is perfect and that there is always room for improvement of work, especially in the situation during which the Prosecutor's Office went through in the previous year. And it's all really one huge breakthrough compared to last year's report. Just compare, if anyone took the time to compare this report to last year's report, the first thing you notice is, I can really say, a huge amount of self-gratification in last year's report and then compare it to a completely sober, concrete report that, I said, is a lot of facts, concrete suggestions and self-critics, which is anyway commendable. And finally, independence. The perception here is very important again. Last year, the chief prosecutor spent more time in the buffet and in the halls here, you all remember that, talking, joking, laughing with individual MPs, than he spent time, as my colleague Škaljić said, in the O.R. listening carefully to our discussions. And we see it this year, and so, this is how it's supposed to be, so it's west. The relationship between this judicial pillar of power and these two political ones should be extremely, extremely formal. Any perception of closeness, personal relations, and in particular the existence of such relationships is not appropriate between politicians and judicial holders, is not appropriate and is not in any case in the interest of any society and state, including Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens. And now we come to that debate from last session of this House when some colleagues have suggested that we appoint a chief prosecutor in this House. I said last time that it was one of a series of legitimate proposals, that such appointment of the chief prosecutor exists in the west that there are a number of such examples in many democratic societies, that it is nothing unusual. But it's nothing out of the ordinary in democratic societies only when there's a universal consciousness in such societies about what I've been saying, about these previous things that I've been talking about, so that expertise is important, that there can be no closeness, that there should be a formal relationship, that there should be reports like this and this approach. But we are as a society still very, very far away from it, we are as a society very far from having such a consciousness. It takes us years to get used to this kind of approach as a society, to this kind of relationship, to this kind of expertise, and when this becomes normal to us, when this kind of approach, this kind of relationship, and this kind of expertise becomes normal, when it becomes completely insane for us to have the attorney general going into political agreements or any kind of agreement with politicians, which, earlier, there are indications that there were 80 cases, and then and only then will it ever matter again how we appoint the attorney general. Because then we'll be a society where these standards, or approaches like this, become a norm, and then it doesn't matter what you call the Attorney General, because whatever you name it, it will behave in this professional, professional, independent and responsible way. And I'm glad that, at least here's what I've seen in the last three days, so, starting with the session of the Constitutional Commission, the switchover, to this day, shows that we as a society are finally on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18881	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18882	It's not a classic correction, but I just hope that colleague Arnaut thought here, not only of the chief prosecutor, but of all the prosecutors, means to get away from that political influence and to practice it primarily from his own party. It means we don't have prosecutors in the BiH prosecutor's office associated with the SBB, other parties, the DF, the SDA, anyone, as well as members of the VSTV. Here, it's just a little bit of a grudge, not just the chief prosecutor, but all the prosecutors.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18883	Thank you very much. Damir Arnaut, correction, pardon, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18884	Thank you. This is really about insulting MPs, which the Rules of Procedure forbids, as it is directly addressed to me, what counterpart Bećirović said. So, I had absolutely never had a cup of coffee with any legal holder, nor would I have thought of such a thing, and out of that courtesy that I would not enter into the insult of the MPs, I did not mention who was hanging by the buffet last year with a former, or suspended chief prosecutor, and that was among other things by colleague Damir Bećirović. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18885	May I have your attention, please? Don't, don't discuss yourself, please answer your word. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18886	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 81 Ma, here, it's hard to say anything now that hasn't already been said, but I'll still take a few minutes and try to be very brief and very concise. So it is a great pleasure to have the opportunity to see one of these reports, and it is especially a pleasure to attend the way in which this report is interpreted. So far, we've been witnessing that it wasn't exactly done in the correctest way, but, see, that was, as I would say, a framework that people allow themselves when they come to a tall home and act like this, but in any case, it's extremely important that we commend, I at least, commend this report, but also to commend the way the chief prosecutor was exposed. The report is very large and very substantial. On 92 pages, much has been said what and how they operate and what and how it should be in the future to increase the efficiency and quality of the work of the prosecutor's institution. Perhaps in one part, an assessment of what many international institutions, legal experts, should also speak of the political impact on judicial institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because you can see how very simply this institution can be affected if we take just two points, one, from the final consideration that indicates what should be done to improve the functionality of this institution, it says – improve the budget or create material and technical assumptions. So, the direct influence on this first and this second can affect this extremely significant institution and an extremely significant function in the judicial system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in every other state. And if we add to that all of what we've heard as a lack of what, which could be absolutely proof of quality and impartial work, we can get the impression that really that possibility is objectively there and there is. As a legislative institution, we are obliged to contribute in all possible ways to improving the conditions in which this judicial institution works so that, in fact, with a lot of rights from that institution, everything that needs to be, and independent, and to fight corruption. We know that corruption is difficult in general to erase from everyday life, none of which has succeeded, nor have much, much more developed countries and those countries that are in a much more pronounced degree of democracy than it is, than Bosnia and Herzegovina. But, uh, I'd like to point out one more time that debate we had here when it came to the High Judicial Council's report. There, as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, I've been offered 47 or 48 conclusions, so it's kind of, uh, condensed, and then the College of this House did it, one material with all these proposals, and then there's this third point of this conclusion that's been proposed by the extended college, which is that these conclusions, among other things, are being delivered to the D.A. And I only appeal that the prosecution really pays particular attention to these proposals that are the result of a comprehensive discussion, they may find a lot of space in all of this to improve their function, to see that in fact there is a mood in this House to really be more and more quality and efficient and to be out of political influence, but also to provide better quality conditions for the functioning of such a function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18887	Thank you. Dear Representative Momočilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18888	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the work of the D.A.'s Office for 2016, of which some seven months the D.A. was led by a man we now have the opportunity to hear as black as 82 can hear about a chief prosecutor. We are discussing a report in which the number of pending cases has been increased compared to the previous Report, a report in which, for example, only in the second part, means where the results of the Special Crimes Department's work on organised crime, economic crime and corruption have been unsettled almost 300 cases, and you can imagine that the chief prosecutor kept in his desk 100 cases, and that I have not heard any prosecutor say that anywhere, and I don't know about their morning meetings, that it's unacceptable, that it can't stand from the point of view of the prosecution, that the prosecutor can't do this work in such a way, and today even very rarely we can hear it, almost in no way. I will appreciate the work of the D.A.'s office according to the results of the prosecution's work, and not according to whoever's leading it, deeply convinced that whoever's leading the prosecution can make a significant contribution to making these results quality and that what happened in the D.A.'s office can change. And that's why the chief prosecutor's office, I don't know if he'll be the chief prosecutor, will have my support all the way or when we have the results. I'll take a few segments, really this is a large report, I'll pay attention to a few. One of these is certainly the application of the State Strategy to work on war crimes cases where I have to say that I am not satisfied with the work of the Prosecutor's Office on the application of this strategy, that's what I said to the Constitutional Commission. I think that in 2008, I am one amendment, and we introduced one of the criteria into the Strategy, so, in determining the priorities of the research of certain crimes, is also the severity of the crime, the tool with which the crime was committed, which was not until then. I'm not sure that this has ever found any place in these cases, at least what I could see, I apologize if I'm wrong, but it seems to me that this criterion has found very little place further in the prosecution's work. And I wouldn't go on about it, I wouldn't talk about how happy or dissatisfied we are, what my colleague Kožul was talking about, I wouldn't talk about it, and I don't want to talk about whether the prosecution did that part of the job impartially, how high-quality, how influenced and under the influence of who. There's only one thing I can say - we're not satisfied with how the D.A. did that part of the job. And it seems to me that no one in this country is satisfied, although from various initiatives, that part of the work has been done so far. In particular, when it comes to this Section II on organised crime, economic crime and corruption, it is clear here in the table that during 2016 360 cases were received, that it was transferred from the previous year 230 and that 297, which will say that the number of cases was increased by some 63 cases, i.e. now there are 293, not now, but at the end of 2016. If something doesn't turn around and we get these 60 increases every year instead of a reduction, I don't need to talk about where we're going. We all understand what we're missing here and what we need to do to make a simple number of these objects that are being solved or solved, uh, increase. I won't even talk about the importance of these items, and I could talk about it because the biggest things, things aren't solved, the biggest affairs aren't solved, I don't know if they'll be solved. I've heard a sentence a few times today that doesn't make sense to me, which is why we repeat it, that the D.A.'s office is going to do not care who belongs to which political option, I don't know, etc., etc., so I guess it's normal for the D.A. to do so, or that means that the D.A.'s Office has never done so before, and that's how the D.A.'s gonna do so in the future. I welcome honesty, if so far has not been done, and in the future it will be done so. It's perfectly normal for the D.A.'s office not to take care of everything the D.A.'s chief prosecutor was talking about, I don't think it should be mentioned, it's quite, quite natural. Here when it comes to the structure of the crimes, let's say, for the charges filed in Section II, I was, uh, speaking, we have a situation, here's the first place in the cause of national, racial, religious hatred, discord and impatience, the number of charges filed one, against five persons. As far as I know it is, I guess it's that ELTA-Cable case where everyone's freed. Imagine in the last few years, so just in 2016 how many statements there have been, that we're not just talking about, I'm not talking about political statements, I'm talking about, in general, this one, which had certainly 83 characteristics of the challenge of racial, national, religious and any other hatred. The prosecution has not initiated more than one process. Either abuse of position and authority – one, or organised crime, money laundering – one, of course, now and through the other, through other departments is going through one number but also there you have plus eight, so neither do I, so it comes down to fingers, all together fingers of one, or two hands. So, I'm not satisfied with what the D.A.'s done, and I can be satisfied with the quality of the information, as the information is written, that oa is detailed, that it's beautifully explained, that everything is visible, etc., that it's like this, that it's like this, but as far as the prosecution is concerned, I can't be satisfied. I cannot be satisfied because the results of this prosecution's work are not only seen in these figures. They also look at the numbers of those who leave this country. The results of the work of the prosecution and the judiciary are reflected in the figures of those who are waiting for the embassies of the Western European countries to leave because they do not have essential conditions here, security and any other conditions, including these conditions. And for that reason, I really can't support this report. We'll see what the report will be in 2017. I sincerely expect these, this way of working by the Prosecutor's Office to change, and I sincerely expect the prosecutor-in-chief to make these necessary changes and give this necessary, necessary force and determination that the Prosecutor's Office will begin to do its job in the way that the citizens of this country expect it to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18889	Thank you. Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18890	I'll be brief again, this colleague Arnut obviously didn't understand me. But here, after consulting with the secretary who said there were cameras down at the buffet entrance, I'm going to use the right used by Mr. Bosić and when someone lies to you, I mean, this was on the TV show, this is now in the biggest legislative body, because I don't know the maltene former chief prosecutor and I've never sat with him, so I'm going to report you to the competent commission, we've got video surveillance, so we're going to see who he was sitting with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18891	Okay, that's how it ends. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18892	Yeah, same thing. I didn't say I was sitting, I was hanging, and I heard you when it was, yes, and when it was, uh, when it was about Judge Džoan Kroner, I heard you personally and I'll confirm it. I hope that the cameras will show that you were together and that you told the attorney general at the time – we immediately issued a statement that you should not support Džoan Korner. I heard it myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18893	So, please MPs, really please, not all things here are arranged by the Rules of Procedure, we have a representative who fourthly appears for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and may be at any point, but this seems to be about this point. It is not arranged by the Rules of Procedure, here, therefore, much depends on 84 patience, on the skills to conduct this session, help us to manage this properly and do not go beyond the context of the agenda. Representative, pardon the vice-president, Mr. Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18894	Well, here, I'd like to start in a positive tone. Mrs Tadić, in some ways, I think you have managed to buy, under quotes, MPs with your correct behaviour and attitude towards Parliament and coming to the commission and this exhibition. It seems to me that all MPs noticed that this was a major change in, or earlier, the chief prosecutor who had been baptizing the MPs here and, practically, for all the remarks, claimed that it was a matter of political interference in his work. I think your job may be the hardest job in Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have a huge responsibility for the future of this society, for the economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, for stopping this trend that there are no people here who can do as much as those who can steal from high political positions. And I think that, while this is the hardest job, it's also the biggest chance for you, not to say that you're celebrating, but to make something that will keep you recorded, if not you, some other chief prosecutor who will have the courage to deal with the crime that keeps this country trapped. So, guys, our society is trapped in crime, and it's business, and public institutions, and education, and health care, it's got to be someone who's gonna have the courage to cut that chain, and I believe that this man is gonna show up, and I'd like it to be you, and I believe that soon there will be some prosecutor who won't choose his comfort before his obligations have been accepted and given to him by society. And now to relate to what Mr. Momčilo Novaković said. As always, I listen very carefully to him because he has a very consistent thought and he speaks smartly, not because he's from our club, but because that's the case. So, the results are what you missed You took the first step, you made a media prep, you made a political one, here I am convinced that with this performance here you have now made political support for your work, but you need to stand behind all that results. I think you have a great chance to change something, because the big cases on your desk, or in the drawers of the chief prosecutor's desk, which, by the way, when I heard somewhere that more than 100 items in his drawers, he went on TV and held a press conference and said he was going to sue Mladen Bosić. Here, he didn't sue me, and now I hear from all the other sources that it's true. Hard work for brave people, uncertain, I know that, I repeat, it is a choice of comfort and conformism a very big challenge for prosecutors in terms of what it means to oppose people who are powerful, whether they have political influence or have big money in their pockets that can provide them with both political influence and any other kind of government. I want all of us to do something better, and I think that this session that we had about justice has revealed a lot and in some way opened up, which is why these discussions here are much more focused, and much calmer and much more rational, I hope that from that session and here from these discussions, some system and some collective consciousness in our society that the time to start dealing with criminals is already past, that we are late and that this is the last moment for someone who will have the courage to break this chain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18895	Thank you. Dear Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto discussion. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18896	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed V.D. Chief Prosecutors with associates, distinguished and distinguished guests at this session, I warmly welcome you all. I'm going to try to say a few words about this report, but of course not getting into a lot, because I think there's a lot of things being said through a debate from distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will also say that according to this 2016 report, one approach has certainly been made, we have also established on the Constitutional Commission, so I will not repeat for long, or again in some way what has already been pointed out, but I would like to say that there is actually a lot of room to advance the work of the Prosecutor's Office. We have seen through your 2016 report that it is both methodologically and statistically done in a way that contains one complete information based on all the problems facing the prosecution in 2016, even in the end and those problems that you were talking about, which you pointed out in a special way by keeping, here in some way, and by protecting that precedent of innocence that is indeed, here at least when our media is concerned, you simply lost. And maybe that gave or maybe caused one big mistrust for all of our citizens when it comes to the judiciary, so in that case the prosecution as an integral part of the judiciary, even though today we can treat it either one way or another. On the one hand, we have a situation that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the prosecution is treated more like a state body somewhere, in other situations exclusively judicial, but when we consider the situation of the appointment of judges and prosecutors, it is only part of the judicial institution. What I would like to say is that you should do in the next period, and in any case I look back at it once again and I welcome this responsible approach of yours, I am particularly glad, I do not know whether, I have not listened to all the debates, today someone pointed out, it has been pointed out that it is one very difficult and responsible job when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, its overall social and all the other relations and processes in which we are, and I am particularly pleased and I congratulate you as a woman on such a responsible duty and I believe that yet one woman, regardless of what I do not know of you or your experience, will do much to make these processes from this one responsible function and duties that you act really change but in the interest of the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a legal state and equality of all citizens before the law. What I'm saying is also, when it comes to the office of the prosecution, I know that you didn't come, you see how you know, and I'm also a graduate of law, so I know what the prosecutor's office is, that within the law he reveals and prosecutes the perpetrators of crimes. All this today that's been said here, of course it may be unnecessary for you, you know that, but we need to do a lot of things that the prosecution doesn't also use certain situations, that it doesn't run political campaigns. All of this will be done until the moment they are and answer those who falsely report crimes, whether by anonymous means unknown perpetrators, whether they are, in some way, those who are behind some reports that have no basis, and we know what we are talking about, about what has been heard through the debate today, about facts, about the law, are about those features that have a character of crime. So, um, I just want to say very briefly at the end, that I really believe that in the coming period you will do a lot of things to further improve the work of the Prosecutor's Office in terms of the exercise of its basic, or legislative function. In that sense, I know you have difficulties, and we saw it in your report, and with problems of financial nature, with problems, with human resources in terms of expertise, you have problems with legislation. What we also expect, along with the cooperation and through the reports that you deliver to this House, to deliver and introduce us to all other problems so that in some way you can fully accomplish your task and ultimately implement this law, and, I say once again, contribute to the fact that 86 really works Bosnia and Herzegovina as a legal state. Here, once again, and my relationship again in terms of submitting this report, when it comes to you personally, you've really changed, so here, for the first time in a long time since we've discussed and received this information, the truth, to the knowledge that one such environment, and that's only, here I would repeat once again, from the aspect of responsibility. But what we can and what we expect is certain that it can also be done on the way from the point of view of this prosecutor's administration in terms of better and better functionality, efficiency and efficiency when it comes to the results of the work that colleagues have been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18897	Thank you. If you want, I can conclude the debate, so now we have the conditions, only if you need to say a few sentences, I will allow you to go out for a pay phone, so please, after that we will conclude the debate. So, the word has the acting attorney general, Mrs. Gordana Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18898	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. I thank you for today's discussion, I have listened to you all carefully, and you have just understood the principle of working as I am, as I do, and as I continued to take office from the suspended chief prosecutor. As you say and seek so must and be by law, to do according to the Constitution and the law and for all alike. I guarantee you that the BiH Prosecutor's Office will not endanger the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina within its competences, but I would ask you now to find a common solution before this electoral activity and you will find among yourselves so that we can all contribute together to the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not lead to political crises that will eventually come to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that we must answer as a repression after what is happening between you. Therefore, your responsibility to the citizens who elected you is as great as ours in the prosecution that we are obliged to act repressively only after something happens. I would ask you to continue to, in order to co-operate this way between these pillars of power, is that, that we can cooperate in a certain way, but this publicly transparent, not individually, not individual prosecutors with individual parties, not individual managers with someone, but thus publicly, transparently among ourselves. Bosnia and Herzegovina's stability, peace and security of all citizens must be a condition for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18899	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Now we're moving on, since we have the mood to do it all the way to point 12, Ad. 12. Information on the implementation of earlier initiatives and decisions of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on ensuring equal conditions for the work of each MEP and MP club in PSBiH – Proposer point: Member Sadik Ahmetović, number: 01-50-1 1621/17, from 05.07.2017 I'm opening a debate. Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18901	Thank you very much. Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. As I have said in proposing this item of the agenda, I hope that this Parliament, i.e. colleagues and colleagues, will understand me and that through one conclusion we will address this problem that is happening to the newly formed Parliament club. Namely, what's this about? At the previous session, we pointed out the problems that we have in mind that we were not assigned rooms, and here until this session is, in a certain way, resolved, but we also have a conclusion where this club is not allowed to participate in the distribution of funds for the smooth work of the Club as well as all other clubs. We do not have a problem for the Administrative Commission to make a political decision, but the laws of this country, i.e. the Electoral Law, has clearly defined that it should and must be a legal remedy, i.e. a complaint to the Court of Justice of BiH, which ultimately makes its decision on who is right, whether the Commission is right or is the one who has filed the application, which in this case is our newly formed Club. Namely, as I said earlier, we had a similar case with our colleague Vukovljak and the commission in charge, the Administrative Commission made a decision and called for a Rules of Procedure, which is exactly what a member of the Rules of Procedure has done, because the Rules of Procedure have prescribed that the Commission has made a decision, left the legal remedy, which is what a respected colleague uses before the Court of Justice of BiH. When it comes to the Independent Block and resolving the requirements of the Independent bloc, the Commission called in the preamble for a Rules of Procedure which regulates and tells about the decision-making process, and in the end it only concluded with one dictionary and did not indicate or write that we have the right to a legal remedy. So I think that here someone, here to say, is playing with, at this point, three MPs, that in a certain way is humiliating them. At the very least, I will say that this is done by the secretary of the Commission, because when competitions are discussed for the secretaries, the commission is written that they should and must be lawyers who need to tell non-legislators that they are making a mistake and that this is not in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. In this case, neither the secretary of the Commission said it, and we got such a conclusion where without, without, without, we can, uh, complain and that the BiH Court of Justice says who is right. So not to spread this story further, I ask you today to support the conclusion that the competent Commission is holding a session again and making only a decision, so whether it approves or not, so I'm not talking about it, to make only a decision where we will have the possibility of a legal remedy, and that the court will say who is right. So, I'm asking you to understand, is this a pea, a deliberate mistake or something else, that we're not going into it now, but please support this conclusion that you're going to get on the desks in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18902	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 88 So, I'm sorry that we, here, know for who knows what time we need to discuss these things, such simple things, so much to all of us, I'd say, such close questions. I invite you human and collegiately to show one professionalism to one another. The more someone tries to do this, I'd say, a lame but fundamentally important question, the more someone tries to deal with people who think differently than some current political leaders, I warn you that instead of dealing with the real issues, you will each time have one debate of this kind in Parliament. If someone thinks, therefore, that in this sense we should treat each other in such a way, okay, but I'm also warning you everything will be and will pass, there will be some behaviour of the current College, right now, and people who are acting in certain positions today. So in that sense, I urge you to provide equal rights and equal chances to every MP and every MP's club without looking for some, I would say, procedural possibilities, to show each other some kind of muscle. If we talk in such a way in the next period, be assured that we, on the same rights, will continue to insist on each of us sitting here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and at each of the next sessions we will have this kind of debate until we come to the justice that we all need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18904	Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18905	Thank you, Chairman. I'm for every club to have income. Morally and necessary can't by law, so we're legislators, give the gentlemen changes and additions to that law that will allow them to, but the question is whether we want equal status to everyone or we'll hide behind some regulation that brought real life to the test. Because there's been a divergence in the political one-block we're not going to change. Here, I suggest you prepare the amendments and the additions of that law I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18906	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18907	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18908	Sadik Ahmetović, a representative, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18909	...maybe colleagues, but we're just asking the Commission to make a decision, not a conclusion. When we make a decision, we don't go into what kind of decision they're going to make, let them make any decision we have, or we don't have the right to appeal, that we have the right to appeal to a court that tells us whether we have the right or not. Because a political decision has been made here, the decision has been bypassed and it has been concluded that it avoids our right to endure, that we have the right to a legal remedy at the Court of Justice of BiH. We have the exact same case with our colleague Vukovljak, where the decision was made, 89 I have this decision here, and he is, therefore, in that decision it is written that he has the right to appeal to the Court of BiH. We've just come to a conclusion, so she's gone over the decision knowingly, so I said it here last time, who's doing it, so they accused me of threatening, here it is today. So, that kind of, the demonstration of such a policy is low, it's low, so first nobody here shares theirs or anyone has the right to more than they belong to. You can't bring various arches to the laws and money of the citizens of this country. So it's not your money, when you come home you have your own budget and then you split the money there any way you want, but you can't have the right beyond the law or the possibility of not allowing us to have the right to appeal to the court, which will eventually tell you who's right. We will respect that decision, but the right to political decisions has everyone, but you have made a political decision. My political decisions are different from yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18910	Thank you, Agent Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, for correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18911	I thank the chairman. A kind of replica to a respected colleague, Sadik Ahmetović, because I do not understand from his statement that he is invited and that he finds it to be the Secretary of the Administrative Commission's fault, primarily because the secretary does not make any conclusions or decisions. In that Commission, in addition to the secretary who is a lawyer, are members and members of the Commission who are also lawyers, and even if she was wrong, there were colleagues and colleagues who could point out some failures. So I think that you put a kind of pressure on employees, or on committee managers or secretaries and secretaries, in which you insult and in such a way perhaps amnesty this political part of which you have spoken. It's on one side. On the other hand, we have yours, i.e. Sadik Ahmetović, I assume the Independent Club, the information where you are looking for the realization of that conclusion, and you are absolutely right, I agree with you that all the conditions have been met, because under the Electoral Law the mandate belongs to the individual. Also in our Rules of Procedure, it is clearly defined how clubs can be formed, but the Rules of Procedure did not define a single word by an independent MP and an independent MP or a member of parliament, which is what this commission needs, which is also given the mandate to amend and supplement home rules, which should be done in the next period. But with this Rules of Procedure today, you have fulfilled, in my opinion, all of you have every right to be provided to you and to give you funds in the context of what Mr. Vukovljak has received. What I'm interested in is why you didn't deliver in these materials, that we have, too, at the outset, and the conclusions made by this Administrative Commission in order for us to get to know each other. This is how we hear from your story, and we're partly familiar with all the steps that have been taken so that from this material we're getting to know each other. clearly what's problematic. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18912	Thank you very much. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18913	Not wanting to be a colleague's lawyer to Ahmetović and not knowing all the details of this story, but from previous experience, it absolutely sounds logical to me that you had problems with the secretary of the Administrative Commission. Since the start of the term of office, we have been trying to, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, get calls to the meetings of the Administrative Commission, because there in the Rules of Procedure says that every MP has the right to attend a session of any committee where a member is not entitled to vote, except, of course, the Intelligence Commission, since the beginning of the term of office, we have been fighting a battle with a civil servant, as a club, because there are not MPs to the commission but a secretary. The MPs are changing the secretary stays and she determines in this building what she can, what she can't. And after reading the College, who I thank once again, twice interpreted the Rules of Procedure and gave the woman a warrant for what she should do, we still don't get a call. The last thing we need to do is look online when there's a call, so ask her to call us. So, I don't really know how you've had the experience, but if you say it's negative, I believe you, because we've had a negative experience with that civil servant for two years.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18914	Thank you, my lady. Representative Sadik Ahemtović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18915	I don't even know who the Secretary of the Commission is, indeed, but it makes sense to me that MPs who aren't lawyers can be found in the Administrative Commission, and it would be logical, so I'm going to ask for the minutes from the session, whether the Secretary of the Commission, who is not a lawyer, is obliged to say that he participates in something that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law. So it makes sense to me that a civil servant who has to and should be a lawyer should do this. And so, from the very very very very sight you can see, this is what was sent to us, so that's one sentence, where there's no lesson about the legal remedy and where it's not a decision and we can't complain. And this is at the same, similar request, exactly the same colleague Vukovljak, where the decision, the explanation and instruction on the legal remedy stands. So this is an insolence, so this is an insolence and humiliation of the MPs. So, this, this deserves to open up the possibility of questioning the responsibilities and those who lead this Parliament in view of such behaviours, the one, according to colleagues. So, I beg you, so I'm not going into it, I'm not going into what kind of decision the Commission is going to make, just to leave us with the possibility that the law has prescribed, that we can complain in accordance with the law and nothing else, the court should say what it says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18916	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18917	Not getting into what counterpart Magazinović had problems with, but very familiar with the fact that on the commission, the Interim Commission for the Amendment and Supplement of the Rules of Procedure has long been discussing the newly established Independent Block, where some colleagues and colleagues have expressed 91 concerns about how you will act in the coming period, whether you will get rooms, whether you have the right to do so, so who are you independent, whether you are independent, whether you will get the money, will you. I just want it here, and that secretary, whoever she is or some other secretary deserves it, because I can't accept the fact that the secretary decides, and that the ruling coalition, because you rocked one whole club, isn't involved in it, and that she doesn't want to traumatize you in the same way that some others are treated. So, the truth is, you have to talk about it, not about the secretary of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18918	Thank you very much. Representative Mirsad Đonalgić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18919	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I'm answering, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm a member of that Administrative Commission, maybe it'd be better if some lawyer interpreted it a little bit, but I can't figure out no matter what kind of document they get that document can't go to court, it doesn't say anywhere. I get a document that I'm not satisfied with, and I think my rights have been violated and I'm going, and I'm opting to go to court, and I'm asking for my right. It doesn't matter what it says down there, whether it's a failure, whether it's a tendency, and I think we're off topic. I think that, uh, it doesn't really matter what kind of opinion I have, I think they should find the possibility of having that right, but if, here, they're not satisfied with that decision here as it's made, they have the opportunity to look for that satisfaction in court, no matter what it says on that solution, or that conclusion. Your request has been denied, you feel that you are not satisfied and go to court, the court will consider it and will make a decision under that document, or by that decision, or by that conclusion, whatever it is they have made. And now, as I say, we turn to discussing the secretary or secretary of that administrative body, so we practically forgot what we started the debate from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18920	Thank you. Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto has her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18921	I didn't answer to convince anyone or explain things, but as my colleague, Đonlagić, said, I also answered as a member of the Administrative Commission. I have talked about these suggestions for a solution with my colleagues individually, and I have simply expressed my position. Whatever the position of the Administrative Commission he was always experiencing politically, and I will only say my position when there was a solution to this issue was exclusively from the aspect of legal justification. As for other issues, counterpart Ahmetović made a proposal and said a different way of resolving the issue, the same issue, means two different MPs. We as members of the Administrative Commission do not have pre-prepared solutions to such matters, means indeed one who does not know, I know that there are many that have skipped many classes, so that they do not know what is the responsibility of the Secretariat or the secretary of the commission, he prepares some proposals for a solution in advance, as well as annual holidays, etc., and perhaps paid permits and, I do not know, some 92 other things that are within the jurisdiction of the Administrative Commission, and those for which he does not know when the Administrative Commission makes a decision and prepares. I asked to see, because we don't know, so we've raised our hand in terms of whether there's a right to comply with the law, and whether it's settled by conclusion or decision, I now guarantee that it's about me in the same situation you can object to the Court's administrative department, so BiH that will decide on such a matter equally to the conclusion and that you've got a decision and whether or not it writes to you. If you have received, then, a decision in which you may have been forgotten for technical reasons to write a lesson on the legal remedy, you have the right to be justified by the Law on Administrative Procedure and Administrative Disputes. I hope you understand me positively.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18922	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18923	I thank the chairman. As a matter of fact, I want to confirm all of this, what Honorable colleague Krišto said, is absolutely correct and absolutely standing. If I understood correctly the presentations of colleagues from the Independent Block, is it a problem for them that they didn't have that lesson on the legal remedy and that their deadline has now expired, because if they knew, uh, if they had written a legal remedy then they would have done everything within the time limit, but if that wasn't the problem, I also think they should do it as soon as possible, the one, if they were still within the time that they needed to do it. I realized the discussion that the deadline had expired. In any case, if the deadline has expired then it is indeed a problem and then it is necessary to investigate why the Commission has not written a lesson on the legal remedy.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18924	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18925	Thank you very much. I don't know if it's the correcting of the wrong quote, but I've come to understand quite differently here the problem. Here's the thing, I think, about analogy. Why, then, let's just focus on the work of the Administrative Commission or already someone who makes such a decision, if we have two equal cases then some committee or someone who makes decisions should, even if it was something new, for the first time, it happened, once, let's follow it and I understood it so, that now it doesn't matter how it was solved, but I would really advocate one principle if we had the same conditions then we should. Now, if he can go to court, that's not a different question, but it seems to me that the form should be monitored, even if it's a series of analogies, it kind of makes sense to me. If that's your problem, why are you treating us differently than someone else, here's a formal solution, a formal question, it's called a decision, not a conclusion. Maybe it's not too late to say anything, yeah, is that a decision, once we made a decision let's repeat it. Here, I just contributed to it like we're doing it, we're staying long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18926	Thank you. 93 Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18927	Thank you very much. Here, I am also a member of the Administrative Commission and the Administrative Commission decides as any other committee by majority vote and as the joint commissions decide by respecting a number of votes from home. And so we decided both in this case and in the case when Mr. Vukovljak was. And we have made the same decision as the Administrative Commission, but the solution is written differently. So we made the same decision, the colleague clearly said, we were not deciding on the solution, but on the request in both cases. In one case and another, it is irrelevant that whoever voted, so I am not saying that I voted, that anyone voted in the Administrative Commission, but it means in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the decision made as it was made, and that is that neither Mr. Vukovljak nor the Club have the right to funds. Why someone wrote in the solution that the legal lesson, and in the second one is not, don't really do it, here I am, and I have no idea why he didn't write it. And here, I'll see on the next Administrative Commission why it wasn't done. Never before has the Administrative Commission at least in this session, and I've been in some of the councils in it, decided on the principle of whether the request from someone in the parliamentary majority, whether it's like this or something, means we've never really been in it, it's always been, or at least trying to be, in accordance with the law, with the Rules of Procedure, etc., and I think that's how it is. I am not, I was not satisfied, but it is less important whether I was satisfied with this decision and as I voted, I say the Commission has decided, so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the exact same in both cases. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So I say, but the solution is different, which is different, here, I don't know as a member of the Administrative Commission which is different.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18929	Thank you very much. Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18930	Mr. Chairman. Well, here, just for some misunderstandings. As far as I am aware of legal matter, the question is the legal force of decision and conclusion, and the Commission is also making decisions, does not reach conclusions. The decision also implies a lesson on the legal remedy, the conclusion does not mean it, and there we have a problem and we do not know whether or not the deadline has expired, because the decision defines the time and legal instruction, and the conclusion is just written and sent, and otherwise the Commission decides on how to make decisions. Here, what are we looking for? Just to make this happen again and make a decision upstairs, to have a deadline and have a legal remedy and nothing else. And, here, thank all the MPs for the comments, uh, that they had here. Here's how much thank you, and we'll actually do that if we adopt this conclusion that we suggested. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18931	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18932	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18933	Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18934	I've been listening to this all along, and I can't come to myself, and the lawyer here, as far as I know, enough. Damir, I'm sorry to call you, Damir, no, something but, in the legal form of decisions and conclusions, i.e. two important, important different forms with significantly different consequences. Therefore, the conclusion as a legal consequence has only a confirmation of the state of something, and the decision provides for further development, and nothing more. And I really don't understand lawyers, I'm not a lawyer, but I know this well, I'm a thousand conclusions in sessions, meetings, work hours, but also dozens and hundreds of decisions, decisions have a completely different legal fact. And so let's not make them, they're very different, everything's different, and let's not pretend that it's all the same, the conclusion and the decision is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18935	I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. The programme for the development of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution-level protection and rescue system, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01-04-1049/17, dated 29.05.2017. At its 49th session, held on 30.05.2017, the House College designated the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH as responsible for the discussion. The Commission shall be responsible for 29.06.17. For years, she delivered an opinion. The Commission supported the adoption of the Programme. The BiH Ministry of Security submitted an updated draft decision on the adoption of a programme of development, protection and rescue at the level of institutions and bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina on 04.07.2017. I'm opening a debate. The word is represented by Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18937	I thank you, Chairman. 95 We at the SDS Club believe that this is a good programme and would not really be discussing it at all if we were not exposed to media sotansation these days by the Radio Television of Republika Srpska, Civil Protection and SNSD. Namely, the claims are that this Programme, that Minister Mektić did not consult civil protection in his work and the Director of Civil Protection sent us, the Honorable Mr. Mile Međed, sent us some of his suggestions, conclusions. By the way, I really thought it might happen, anyone who does is wrong. First of all, the adoption of this Programme stemmed from the Framework Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents that were brought in 2008. This Law, meaning Minister Nikola Špirić's Council, the chairman here was Mr. Milorad Živković, and the Law has made an obligation to adopt this Programme, there are other obligations, to make an assessment plan. And when it comes to this assessment it is clearly stated in the Law – in coordination with entities, here it is said that the programme is brought by the Ministry of Security. And then for many years that program hasn't been brought in. In an audit report that we discussed at the beginning of this year, the impact review on the topic "Activities of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement protection and rescue in natural or other disasters", the auditors cited the adoption of this Programme as one of the recommendations and requests to the Ministry of Security. The Financial and Budget Committee shall be supported by the request of the auditor and indicated to the Ministry of Security within 60 days. Fortunately for the Commission, which was held on 29 December 2016, here are the minutes, I was not, but counterpart Dušanka Majkić supported the request and asked Minister Mektić to write the programme. Well, then I went to the point of that terrible transmission made by Minister Mektić, accused by Mr. Međed. Well, then I found a terrible transfer of jurisdiction, says Mr. Međed, by providing funds from the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget to the border police, state, co-ordination, the Police Coordination Directorate, etc. I thought maybe Mektić decided to transfer the jurisdiction of civil protection to them, so again there I read what he gives them, and why he sets out the money and finds, he says -- he'll get 33 drones for border police officers and border police facilities, he'll get boats for border police facilities located in areas of threatened floods, say in Brod, it's normal for border guards to have a boat so they can be saved, and motor sleds for the border police, say, in the Sceptan field where garbage takes place in winter, that border police buy motor sleds so people can get to Foca. Now, that's how I found that Mr. Međed accuses Minister Mektić of transferring jurisdiction because the border police will buy sleddes, he also has a Sanitary Vehicle for Armed Forces, he also has a bucket to put out fires with a pump on armed forces helicopters, it's all a transfer of jurisdiction, respected colleagues, night flying helicopters and mobile kitchens for the Red Cross, and there are transfers of competencies from Republika Srpska. So, the conclusion is this – if the border crossing on Republika Srpska's territory is in that case, if it happens, God Bog, let natural disasters those officers should not save themselves, they must not have boats, they must not have sledding, but should wait for Mr. Međed to wake up and come... _________(?) If it's winter. If it's winter or, God Bog, the flood. So, truth be told, I am angry with Minister Mektić, and I am angry because he planned this Programme to have 50,000 KM for promotional videos to be broadcast, among other things, on SNSD TV called Republika Srpska's Radio-Television. I can't forgive him for that, and that's why we're in a position to vote. 96 So, dear colleagues are about one of our obligations, a good programme, but I really can't believe that there are people out there who ask us not to support this, and at the cost of and endangering human lives, and in 2014, it's not far behind us here and it's never happened to us again, not to us, not to anyone in this region.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18939	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18940	Well, I've actually come to this tiny hour to ask a question about this very important document...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18941	It's not small yet, it's big.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18942	To me, Proposer, I don't know if he's here, or if there's no proposer, at least the people of the Committee who discussed this document, because to me, I don't know what we're adopting. You see, in an act accompanying what it says - in addition to the act, I present to you the Programme for the Development of the System of Protection and Rescue of Institutions, Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities to consider and adopt at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The Development Programme is a complement of the previously submitted Proposal for a Decision adopting the Development, System, Protection and Rescue Programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies since 13 April 2017. This document bears the title "The Programme for the Development of the System of Protection and Rescue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions and Authorities." I, from the accompanying act, assume there was another document that was also called and that this document was complemented by the document. And then it should say that he is the addition of this document, because if we adopt this document like this and if we have previously adopted a document called the same, we'll have two documents called the same, this second one is the addition of the first one. How it's going to look formal to me is not clear. I'd like this clarification, is there any... I forgot what it was on the 13th of April 2017, which was delivered to us, did we adopt this last time at the session at all or is this a complete document? This says it's a supplement, and the material doesn't say it's a supplement, it says it's a program. Is there another document we've adopted, or are we going to adopt it completely or not? Are there two documents of the same name, should we adopt two documents of the same name? If we publish them, what would it look like to have two documents of the same name? A few questions, I'd like someone to answer me, just before the plea, I say, about this very important document.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18943	Okay. Thank you very much. Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18944	Well, here's a few words in favor of discussions and Mrs. Pandurević and Mr. Kožul. Here, I just want to remind us that the Office or the Office for the Audit of Institutions carried out 97 impact audits at the Ministry of Security, Ministry of Defence and the Directorate for Co-ordination of Police Authorities on the subject – The activities of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement protection and rescue in natural and other accidents. This report was discussed by us at the Commission for Finance and Budget, but this report was also adopted by the Council of Ministers and ordered the Ministry of Defence to bring, to the Ministry of Security, to create a Programme for the Development of the Security Protection System at the level of the institutions, bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And what Mrs Pandurević was talking about is quite right, because the Framework Law on the Protection and Rescue of People and Material Goods from Natural and Other Accidents, Article 13(a), determines that the Council of Ministers, sets out a proposal for a programme to develop a system of protection and rescue at the level of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is nothing controversial about it, this, and the Council of Ministers has done exactly that way and has done so when, through the analysis of the report of the Office of Audit, this one, has been authorised by the Ministry of Security, as a further member of the 14th Framework Law, point e), it is now bound by the Ministry of Security to draw up this law, this Programme. I think that, if my fellow Members and colleagues remember, I have asked one of the parliamentary questions in the direction of formation, and as far as this Framework Law is concerned, the formation of a mixed special unit which clearly, also through the Framework Law in Article 13(k), explained that all conditions exist, there are all the conditions that this unit is formed from water rescue teams and underwater, but this is an obligation, this, the Council of Ministers, and at that time it was disputed that entities, and the predominantly entity of Republika Srpska, asked for certain, giving some consent to, uh, forming this team. And here, as we see it now, they repeat the same thing, and when it comes to the program, uh, the programme in question on the system of protection and rescue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18945	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18946	...a false allegation, but with the dilemma brought out by my colleague Kožul, I must add one more. If possible, this is not the first time in the name of a document that creates a language blur. Here it sounds like a programme to develop a system of protection and, does this mean a programme to save Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies? I think it's time for this to somehow be avoided.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18947	Thank you very much. Representative Hazim Rančić, hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18948	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, and I will join in my discussion to all those who speak of the need to adopt this document. We all know that natural and other disasters are with such characteristics that they exceed the potential of any community in terms of the constitutional and legal arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so any municipality, any city, any canton, any entity and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Natural disasters and disasters and their resolution of the developed country are heading towards a compatible and interoperable force of these countries combating major floods, accidents, fires, earthquakes and all other whites that can happen in those countries. And in practice 98 is so that the questions are solved, and we here would like to get caught up in the malts each in their mahala, in their local community, or perhaps in our home counseling, and we think that this way we can fight these problems. So someone said '14. and floods and we all know well how we've been through, and we also know which of the forces within Bosnia and Herzegovina is the greatest contribution to the resolution of these whites, when the floods were, gave. These were the Armed Forces of BiH. It never occurred to anyone, and don't let Bog fall, say it's something in the jurisdiction of the oneness, the canton, the municipalities, the cities, so there you are, fight with how you know and can. Of course, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina should do everything when these problems arise, and we also know that, from other countries, they have come to us and helped solve these problems. A few more years ago, let's remember a fire that doesn't watch where the border between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is down around Trebinj. Can a country fight such fires? Here, and now it's season, that one, about these whites. Only united, efficient, functional forces can solve these problems and we need this document to go that way as a country. Framework law, therefore, here I am going to repeat some things that colleagues have already said, the obligation to make stems from the Framework Law on the protection and rescue of people and material goods from natural and other accidents. Therefore, the 2008 Act, published in the Official Messenger, and Article 13(a) which found that the Council of Ministers of BiH sets out a proposal for a programme to develop a system of protection and rescue at the level of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and delivers it to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for adoption, and Article 14(e) which found that the Ministry of Security is developing and proposing a programme for the development of a system of protection and rescue of institutions and bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, there is no obligation to co-ordinate with the competent institutions of the entity and the Brcko District of BiH. And we have this on the agenda and this Parliament needs to make a decision on the adoption, that is, the adoption of this Programme. As an obligation, this obligation stemmed from a Sendai declaration adopted at the Third UN Conference, held from 14th to 18th March 2015 in Sendaji and Japan, which both adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina. The work programme of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Security Ministry Strategic Plan for 2017 also envisions the adoption of this programme. About the Office of Audit discussed by previous colleagues and colleagues, also, from their position that is to say – to draw up a proposal for a programme to develop a system of protection and rescue of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2018-2022 gives us the obligation to do this thing. The Council of Ministers held at 81st session, held on 16.11.In 1916, the report on the audit carried out and tasked the BiH Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence to propose measures to improve the protection and rescue system, i.e. to remove detected weaknesses, and that those institutions have without delay access to the implementation of recommendations contained in the Report. The House of Representatives adopted the Review Report at its 40th session on 29 December 2016, which is requested by the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Defence to report within 60 days to the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives on the planned activities to implement the recommendations of the Report within 6 months on the activities undertaken to implement the recommendations and to meet the Office for Auditing BiH institutions. The same conclusion came to the House of Peoples by considering this problem. The Council of Ministers is on 6 April '17. set out a proposal for a programme for the development of a Bosnia and Herzegovina-level protection and rescue system for the period '18-'22. The programme is being developed based on an assessment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's threat from natural or other accidents in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Otherwise, the beginning of the work is from 2010, I have here by chance a decision on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the assessment of the threat of Bosnia and Herzegovina from natural or other accidents, which was published in the Official Messenger on 3 June 2010, signed by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleague Nikola Špirić, who is now our colleague here in 99 Parliament. To dozens of people and experts, the institution's representatives participated in this, of course, and 17 people from, representatives of institutions from Republika Srpska's unit. All positive opinions of all relevant institutions and bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, have been obtained. No legal or sublegal regulation has established the obligation to seek the opinion of the entity or the institution of the Brcko District, as their institutions have no obligation to seek the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Security when they adopt their development programmes. The development programme does not apply to entities and Brcko District institutions in any segment. The funding comes from Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, international commitments, donations from international institutions and organisations, IPA funds, the EU and the UN, and financial support from international partners. The programme covers exclusively activities stemming from a law regulating the work of institutions and bodies at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. All activities contained in the Programme are based on proposals from competent institutions and authorities at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Realising the Bosnia and Herzegovina-level programme of institutions and bodies that operate in the event of natural and other accidents would create conditions for them to act effectively in accordance with the law and prescribed competences. So I could also further analyze these memos, i.e. they have two memos that have come, they're not true, they're all listed there in all 10 points, I'm not going to repeat the things said by a respected colleague, all these arguments and reasons are in favor that we need to make a decision today on the adoption of this Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18949	Thank you very much. Representative Safer Demirović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18950	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I'll try to be as short as possible, since something has already been said about this program. And like most colleagues, I'll agree, and I'm glad we have this program ahead of us, especially since it was the subject of a recent audit report that we had on this House. What's like a man who, who is close to this topic and who deals with this, protecting people and saving lives and saving lives, which I've partly been disappointed with is some of the solutions that have been given here and suggestions on how to do it. For me, it's very modestly all presented. I had some dilemmas and questions for myself, but after this presentation of a distinguished colleague that through this programme, strict consideration of this entity line and the transfer of jurisdiction, some things are certainly more clear to me now, although what this Programme treats has no entity line, there is no jurisdiction, there is no jurisdiction, so in natural disasters and accidents we are all equally threatened. I underline again, I am glad that this programme is, I will support it anyway, but what particularly disappointed me, what, yes, I didn't know it either, which are actually the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina on this issue and what Bosnia and Herzegovina still needs to adopt from the documents, from the plans, from the activities. For example, only the environmental law states there, I do not know when we will be, we will have the strength and when we will be able to pass such a law at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18951	Thank you. 100 Let's see this breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18952	Thank you, Chairman. I have to be honest that it's not a injury, but I don't know how to baptize what I want to ask, and the simplest question is, how far do we work, how long do we work?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18953	Until we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18954	Namely, as I've heard here from some colleagues, until we all pass out, or at least three members of the College, since no one can interrupt this session, so I've heard. So the College can't, can we as the House decide, given that it's the 22nd point of the agenda, so it's being discussed on special terms, it's going to say that the hall is free, like this, like that. We know it takes an hour's break, a regular hour's break, that until we're done, so it can be and, uh, formally when you look at it can really be some kind of abnormal time. I ask you indeed, College, that either you propose to the House, so that the House pleads, or that we as the Club propose to the House for a while that... we can finish this session. Because believe how time moves away so, this one, individual debates about points will become less and less concentrated, there will be more and more discussions that will not be in line with what is expected or what is expected of the promoters. I don't think it really makes sense to work with a reduced concentration as clearly as it is right now, here we see from these last few points, but now at a very low level.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18955	Thank you very much. All I had to say on this subject was I tried to say. If there are any proposals, please suggest, we will decide on these proposals, we are Parliament, we make decisions. Representative Salko Sokolović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18956	It's not the wrong quote, it's, uh, here, and I'm looking for a way. I forgot to say two more sentences earlier, but I think they're essential. I just want to point out, and as far as this Programme is concerned, that exactly the rescue teams are equipped and trained by the European Union's means, and I think we're going to get into trouble, if in some foreseeable time we don't form this unit, a mixed special unit, because we're going to be in a situation where we're going to withdraw these funds from the European Union and we're already already having a debate about it, so we're going to be unserious and thus present the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18957	Thank you very much for correcting the wrong quote, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18958	Thank you. My kolega Novaković, I spoke about this subject, and I said that I could not interrupt the session at my discretion, except in those few situations prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and of course the House could decide to suspend the session at a given time and at the same time it would be desirable to decide when to continue it. I then joined what counterpart Denis Bećirović said, why don't we continue tomorrow, and now I especially think we should tomorrow or as soon as I hear, uh, sentences like, half seven, tiny hours, when I hear someone's going to pass out after he's spent seven, eight hours here. This all indicates that some here are not aware of the realities facing the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina when they have a job. So, don't really, uh, insult the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with complaints that it's half seven, that they're small hours or that someone will faint because they sit and discuss seven, eight hours. Don't compare it to the miners, etc., I mean really, don't. Once a month, we hardly meet here and I think, I am someone who for two and a half years advocates working as the Republic of Croatia, as the Republic of Serbia, as Montenegro, who has as many as Sarajevo, 600,000, 700,000, and who has more sessions of its Parliament than all these parliaments, state and two entities together have in Bosnia and Herzegovina over one year. So these things really need to be serious and it absolutely says that Dom can decide to interrupt the session and continue it at some other point, but I think, uh, that it should be as soon as possible, as tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18959	Thank you very much. So, please, I think that if we turn to the points of the agenda, if we get up many times, and we say that we want to replicate, and it's not a replica, that we use business interventions to have discussions, it's all today, so it's seen, it's all seen through this stenogram, we're going to end this session in one reasonable time and we're going to meet the obligation. We have to finish this session, especially this one, which is why I was saying, this point regarding foreign exchange savings and the decision of this last one that must be, the secret part of the session, because we are bound by a deadline of two, three days. So we have to do this, and I'm asking you not to say anything that's within the agenda, and you were going to say, say it. And it's possible, if so, but the agenda points, that we finish this session on time. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18960	So, as counterpart Novaković said that the hard work and members of the College could begin to fall, etc., etc., I would only ask counterpart Novaković if it is possible that such a type of replica would no longer repeat, as he could collectively mourn and cry Bosnia and Herzegovina's working people over the difficult fate of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18961	Thank you very much. Can Mrs. Kožul and Novaković give up correcting the wrong quote? Can't you? Mr. Kožul. Here you go. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18962	I can, I can give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18963	Okay, thank you very much. Novaković?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18964	Well, I'm in the mood to work late at night. I left at 6:00 this morning, so I'm not at 10:00, but at 6:00, and it's not my problem, I'm an older man, I'm in no hurry, I can sit here and work here tomorrow. What I didn't say was that anyone would faint by working, but I said whether the session should last until someone passed out because some colleagues realized that no one could interrupt this session, and I think that Dom could break it off. That story about 8 hours, 9 hours, 10 hours of work, so someone can work 25 hours here, of 24. He gets up an hour early and works 25 hours without ever answering, so he doesn't read any material, and someone who reads everything and one of this stuff Bog tired of me in eight hours, pal. I don't have a problem, Mr. Chairman, but I'm asking you to make this a future practice, we're working until we finish the session, so long as it is, and I'm in the mood to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18965	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. This is a question that we're going to discuss at the College, so practice work, maybe in two days, we'll see, so, in the College, we'll find ways. I am concluding a debate on this agenda point and from this point forward with regard to all the remaining points, according to Article 27. Rules of Procedure, I'm limiting the discussion to five minutes, and let the electronics adjust to five minutes. We continue with point 14, Ad. 14. Consideration of Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 10.05.2017, which reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge that, no later than six months from the day of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, it also delivers the National Security Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in parliamentary procedure", issue: 01-50-1-1206/17 At its 49th session, held on 30.05.2017, the House College designated the Joint Defence and Security Commission as responsible for the discussion. The Commission submitted its opinion on 29 June 2017. The Commission did not support the initiative. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18967	103 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18968	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18969	Don't, don't, don't, don't, he's the author of the Initiative. You have, you have, of course you have a word. Here you go. So, Denis Bećirović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18970	The Honorable Chairman. I'm sorry that one important and important subject like this begins with a cut of discussion, but you have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. It's not exactly an ideal timing for discussing this important issue, since 90% of ministers are not present, it was particularly important for me to have the Minister of Security, but what is there. I personally believe it is of strategic interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina to receive the National Security Strategy as soon as possible. I believe that this is the most important strategic document in this area that determines the course of action, and this document should improve our co-operation with international institutions as well. In this regard, I would like to say that we can fight against a number of security threats, including terrorism, in two ways. The first one is strategic, planned and designed, the second one is unserious, non-strategic and unthinkable. I think that today we are sending from this session, on this agenda point, an important message to our allies and friends, above all in the West, and that message is whether we are going systematically and seriously, together with our Western allies, we are fighting all security threats or we want to send a message that we are not going to do this seriously. Therefore, the listing from this vote and this item of the agenda will have a little longer useful meaning than perhaps some other vote. I remind those who, eventually, do not know, these strategies exist both in the European Union countries and in the United States but also in the region environment. For this topic and this vote, therefore, there is no correctional exam. It is our desire to move towards a strategic document and I think we should adopt it unanimously today. Without strategy in every area, especially in the area of security, we'll just wander in the fog. We don't need that. And that is why today we should adopt this proposal and start a systemic struggle in a strategic and elaborate way on this matter. I remind you, we should clearly identify all the challenges and risks and threats to security and set goals, basic principles and elements of national security policy. I believe that, therefore, it is very important for us in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we should finally start to act strategically and preventively. When I say this, let's not just remember these documents when certain unwanted situations occur in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but to do so in time, to do so as the European Union countries do, and we are heading towards the European Union. I would therefore ask that we bear in mind this fact and adopt this strategy today so that we do not, in the coming months or years, come into a situation where we could possibly repeat some unwanted situation, and that the state Parliament has a decision behind it that it said that unlike all the countries of Europe and the world, it does not need a Security Strategy. There are, of course, many more reasons why we should support it today. I remind you we're not. As MPs, we are already trying to initiate the adoption of such a document together with the Council of Ministers of BiH, and in the interest of all of us living in this country. [[Employee is warned on time]] 104
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18971	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18972	Thank you Madam President, ma'am, more, in a way, replica. So, I'm free of this strategy when I already feel insecure because my colleague said that the voting list from this point... will be delivered and in optics who knows where. And it's not his first time, so when he threatens his fellow MP and threatens his democratic right to vote however he pleases. So, I don't know what he meant by that, but, well, at first, we don't really care how we started. So this strategy will not come out well, because here are the threats in Parliament. I hope that colleagues who receive the vote will understand that we have voted under pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18973	Thank you. Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18974	Well, we're just two different worlds.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18975	Obviously.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18976	The vote is a mirror of a policy and why a list of your vote would be a threat to you. Well, here, unlike you, I invite you to take all the voting documents in which I participated and I will be proud to stand behind every voting document, and by this, both by the previous and the next points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18977	You didn't say that, you said...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18978	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18979	However, therefore,...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18980	...to whom you will deliver it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18981	You want to warn a colleague from a place he says? 105
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18982	I said – please warn You, you are invited, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18983	Okay. Have you finished your post, Mr. Lovrinović?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18984	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18985	Yeah, that's great. So it's something that goes beyond this kind of debate that you're trying to open up to Mr. Lovrinović. It's... things. The point is that we have problems, the bottom line is that in the future individual centres of power don't shed crocodile tears over what happened or could happen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but that we all join together and do everything we can to make us look like other developed and advanced countries. In this country, a lot of the fair and honest world lives, but unfortunately there are also destructives. That's why we have to stand up to these destructives in a systematic way. I hope your clarification was clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18986	Thank you. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18987	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I was just hoping this would take some time between us. Of course, not paying attention to who the proposer is, because this is not a strategy, we start talking as if we have a strategy ahead of us, but about the initiative to do something. And I'm gonna watch it that way. Very often here, the vast majority of MPs at certain points, which are very often concerned with both security and security, security and security are not only of a physical nature, but of a variety of species, so, among other things, we had a prosecutor before, so we were saying a lot of things on his report, and inside is all that should cover the strategy, it's not just to provide and have guards, but also financial, like this, like that and all kinds of possible attack on the ground. Very often here we talk about terrorism, potential dangers, very often in our homes we talk about the monster of the drug abuse that has affected this country and the destruction is to the bottom, and those who close their eyes in front of it are doing a bear service to their younger generations. Before, of course, before I decided to speak on this dot of this haber box that we have in front of us, they give us the opportunity to look at what's in other countries. So one of the first things Nikolić and Vučić did as a tandem in Serbia was to adopt a National Strategy. This is not a national matter in terms of the name of the nation, but of the state, of the protection of the state. Mrs. Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović-Kitarovic has no advances, look at him, in which he says – based on a national strategy, so now that Piran Bay is in question four times I listened to him, based on the national strategy and interest of the Croatian state. Therefore, it would be our turn as citizens of this country to think. This isn't about the nation, egonationally, egoraligicly, it's about the state. So this strategy refers to something called state. Cyber crime, who's protecting us now, who? And now I can count it all you want. 106 He mentioned my colleague Bećirović of the United States, and it is no secret, you enter the official CIA party, about every American citizen annually, the average I speak to annually, the CIA gathers 220 information, 220 information about each. So, about someone 1,000, about someone not one, but on average, every 220 information. It's not to follow him, it's to have... it's exactly how you believe me, we're talking about money laundering, we've created a system to launder money, make a system. And in order for this system of laundry and laundry and all kinds of Cayman islands, Cyprus, and I can list you a lot, very much, we must have a national strategy in the fight against all monsters. It's not just financial, it's not just It's not just drugs, that's all. [[Employee is warned on time]] and what the interests of this country are. [[Employee is warned on time]] I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18988	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18989	Thank you. Very short. In the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, I assume that what is also in the exposé of the Council of Ministers' Chairman, we talked about it today, so he promised to form a National Security Council that would make up the highest representatives of the legislative, executive authorities of the state, entities, heads of intelligence and most important police agencies. We really welcome this announcement by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and would like to see it realized. Here, on several occasions we asked what was wrong with it, we didn't get the answer, we reminded again today, they'll probably tell us what stage this promise was in. However, another promise came from the Council of Ministers, i.e. the chairman, which is a promise to draw up a Security Policy document for the period 2015-2025. In any case, it corresponds with the initiative of a respected colleague, Bećirović, and I hope that it will all be one serious whole. I, therefore, only the MPs left in the parliamentary majority would like to remind myself that he is also the leader of the executive government, so the chairman of the Council of Ministers is about this background, so it may help to put their vote on this initiative. And finally, let me just say that counterpart Bećirović forgot to say that apart from the documents we will also require a stenogram from this part of the session, so I don't know where to use it or how to use it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18990	Thank you very much. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18991	Mr. Magazinović, I don't know if you're familiar with this, you can download it all from Parliament's website, you don't need to specifically require it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18992	Thank you. 107 Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18993	I smiled sweetly, Damir. The same thing I wanted. Now I'm going to spread it a little bit, same thing, exactly.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18994	If it weren't for your families at sea...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18995	They're not yet and they won't...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18996	Come on... discuss it. Please, nice MPs. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18997	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18998	In the national strategy, Mr. Magazinović. We should also enter many elements that do not have neighbors, because we are a very specific country. We consider ourselves dangerous to be a name and a name, I saw a beard now at a football rally in Moscow and San Petersburg endlessly. No name is Islamic, and a beard is as dear as Bog wills. That's what I'm... I'm looking at, I'm used to watching MBA basketball, beard as much as Bog wants. We need to start working on some other stuff. And we need it, we have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u18999	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19000	So, I knew when he started telling Mr. Magazinović that he would continue to threaten, so it's in their blood. But, uh, that's why I'm not going to say anything that they have nothing to take off, and the luck of the prosecutor is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19001	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19002	Well, I just see that I was right when I was talking about a session interruption, because it's obvious that the way this point is now being discussed and what we're talking about and the way 108 we're talking right now is in favor of it. I'm now wondering if someone's trying to scare me by, uh, taking a listing, which can normally always be taken, put out in public. What I'm losing here, I'm going to get on the other side, I'm actually going to get where I have votes, I'm going to lose here where I don't have votes. Now I don't know if anyone's scaring me. You see, we were just discussing the D.A.'s work report, and I mentioned the strategy, uh, when it comes to war crimes. Another colleague, apart from me, expressed his dissatisfaction with the implementation of this strategy and the way in which this strategy... means respecting that strategy that the prosecution referred to the victims and perpetrators of war crimes, and we have a strategy and we have not solved the problem with that strategy. Does anyone really think that all these problems, and I appreciate that there are all these problems that you've been talking about, that we're going to solve this strategy, or we're going to solve it by passing laws or at least at first showing the will to solve them. Half of these problems we don't want to solve depending on where they are, where they're located, who's behind them, etc., because there's no will, not because there's no strategy. The second or third thing, I agree with Backović that this is not a national strategy but a state strategy and you have actually said what I want to say, which is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not the same state. And that when someone says "national" in me, they cause immediate resistance. I don't see why the promoter didn't put in a state strategy, so by that notion, the state would mean everything he thought he was saying or at least what my colleague Backović was saying. We see this question in different ways, and I see it primarily as a lack of will to solve these problems, not as a lack of mechanisms. There are mechanisms now that these issues are being resolved, or most of these issues are being resolved, but unfortunately, the government is not working in a way that shows the will to solve them and to show activity to solve these problems. And we're not gonna solve the problem of terrorism with strategy, we're not gonna solve the problem of causing racial hatred, etc., no criminal law or strategy, we're gonna solve something else entirely that we're here about and what we're not here about...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19003	Thank you very much. Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19004	Well, from this session, it won't remain recorded in which working hour we've been considering this and what was the point of the agenda, it's going to end up being the result. It wouldn't be good if it remained a negative result. Niko of the debaters have said that we are going to solve all the problems of this Strategy, as none of the other countries, either in Europe or outside Europe, but it is certainly one of the steps taken by all the countries of the world, all the members of the United Nations. What's the problem with us doing that? This is our chance, therefore, to try to systematically deal with this, to know what our strategic directions are, to know what we are doing both in the executive and in the legislative and judicial authorities, to know what problems we are facing. Once upon a time, there is a diagnosis of the state of 50% solution to the problem. Why run from it? So once again before the vote, I call on us to consider and support this proposal, before we have prejudged any solutions, but rather invite people in the Council of Ministers, especially in the Ministry of Security, to come to the best and acceptable document for the common forces. Any other message would be a very bad message, and believe that many people in both the country and abroad are following how we behave on this plan, what we do, whether 109 we want to be strategically serious, whether we want certain situations to be ours. permanent manipulations or we want to take this seriously the way serious states approach it. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19005	Thank you very much. Corrections to the wrong quote are used to correct the wrong quote, not as further short discussion. Zaim Backović is a representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19006	Short, one sentence. Mr. Novaković I agree with you, but it is difficult to find another word because you have Belgium – the Flamanac and the Valonac and writes..., it is not a nation in terms of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Bošnjak Srbin, but a territorial environment where we live, so it says. It says so in the translation of Croatia, it also says in English... but in Croatia live both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19007	Please don't throw each other in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19008	... that's different things. There you go. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19009	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Consider the Parliament's initiative of the Independent bloc, submitted on 31.05.2017, which reads: "We propose to place a point on the agenda of the first next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and no later than 30 days, titled: Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016 and the implementation of the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for the period January – May 2017," issue: 01-50-1-1386/17 At the 49th session held on 30.05.2017, the Home College was responsible for considering the information(?) set up a Constitutional Commission. The Commission submitted its opinion on 04.07.2017. The Commission adopted the initiative. I'm opening a debate. Representative Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19011	I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19012	At the request of the club independent block 15 minutes break. We'll continue at 7:55. We've got a quorum, we're moving on. The break was requested by the Independent Block. You have your word, please. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19015	So, we needed consultations, it's a matter that we partially treated a few points of the agenda. So, it's the 2016 Report and we've been looking for more additions on the Council of Ministers' realisation activities in the first five months of this year. Since we've already discussed it, we've ended it the way we ended up, so we know how we've been assigned to, uh, that part of the agenda. Since we feel that this issue is very important and that we need it, this, that we need to finish it, a group of MPs, in accordance with Rules of Procedure and Article 68, will request an emergency session on this subject, and the agenda will also, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be proposed at the beginning of the session itself. So, here, you'll be informed about it in writing and we want to continue this kind of activity.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19016	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm closing the debate on item 15 of the agenda. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Consideration of Parliament's Hanka Vajzović, submitted on 13 June 2017, which reads: "It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and by the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives (scheduled for 05.07.2017) at the latest. It shall provide all MPs with a comprehensive and detailed report on: 1) activities related to the construction of the Pelješko Bridge and 2) events concerning the construction of the bridge on the Sava near Svilaj.’, number: 01-50-1 1474/17 The initiative was addressed to the Council of Ministers. On 5 July 2017, the Ministry of Communications and Transport provided brief information on the activities undertaken related to the initiative. 111 I'm opening a debate. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19018	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is obvious that, according to media reports and information coming from the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia is intended to build a bridge, so to speak. A Peljeski bridge that would close free access to Bosnia and Herzegovina's open sea for all time. These are the internal territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia, but this is also a question of international law of the sea treated by this area by every maritime country, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, must have free access to the open sea. In the context, here is the verdict concerning the Piran Bay between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, and I think this is a very important issue, and we do not have enough information, so here I strongly support this initiative and that complete information is already being provided at the next session regarding the construction of the Peljega Bridge. Here's my focus on this, this problem, and as for building a bridge on Savi in Svilaj, that's another question, and that's why I would suggest, here, and the conclusion: 1. To deliver all agreements or contracts or other acts signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina and related to the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, as well as to the construction and approval of the Peljesac Bridge activities. 2. To send a note to the Republic of Croatia to suspend all activities of the Republic of Croatia regarding the construction of the Peljesac Bridge until full mutual agreement is reached. 3. All competent institutions for this issue should actively engage in these activities. 4. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is tasked with closely monitoring the activity on the issue and reporting to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19019	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19020	Thank you, Chairman. I think this is an important and overly serious issue that Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken very seriously. The issue was opened about 12 years ago and was slowly approached by euphoric approach, and everything should be done to ensure both neighbouring countries' mutual satisfaction with this issue as soon as possible. So it's taking so long. What I mean by that circumstance to put an end to our approach to the type is to delegate to some expert teams of people by heart, and then one of the experts claims that Croatia allows us a 200m long ship to pass, as if it has connections to the length of the ship, the train can pass if it passes to the width or height. Or let's say something I'm going to read from the report, which we got, and the report is missing what my colleague Mehmedović was talking about, the documents are missing. One of these, since the most incriminating story was about 2007 at a time when it was clearly signed something without our confirmation of when the Minister of Transport and Communications was Mr. Božo Ljubić, it was from that time, later 112 things were still happening. In any case, what is most unfavourable, that is all I want to draw attention to, what is most unfavourable for Bosnia and Herzegovina, what has escaped Slovenia in the arbitration process is at our disposal, so it says, let's be quiet, please, is what Momo said is already the end, but therefore in that report it stands like this – in March 2006. The Ministry of Transport and Communications delivers, as chronologically without documents and names and other things, it provides information to the Council of Ministers regarding the building of a bridge with the opinion of the expert group, I do not trust this expert group after I have studied the documents well, and a proposal for the conclusion that the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs is tasked with taking action to find a solution to ensure that Bosnia and Herzegovina's rights are respected. That notion of harmless passage is the most unfavourable thing for Bosnia and Herzegovina if we focus on it. So, the harmless passage into the water, and that's exactly what the internal waters say, because we don't have any mention of the territorial sea here, that we're not talking about to get to the open sea as it is in some, some imaginary lines as it is already by definition of the limits at sea that includes our other problem of controlling the sky, so it goes into the air. That's something I wanted, it means a whole new approach, a more serious approach, and I think this is a place where we need to talk about it and possibly make decisions, and some border committee, expert, like this, like this, made up of delegated people, probably similar, and also people who are actually civil servants. So then the Presidency asks that a report from the Commission for Borders, etc., be delivered to them through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, instead of having the Presidency behind these decisions, which was 2007, here is one from the position of Željko Komšić, who was very loud in 2007, was Silajdžić and Radmanović, but later I'm not sure that it was, I'm not sure that there was any interest or that there was some particular commitment that this, I say, was resolved to mutual satisfaction and to accept Yes, and the Republic of Croatia has, of course, the right to do what they want in their backyard, but to respect our right where they touch. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19021	Thank you. Momčilo Novaković representative, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19022	I first have a dilemma about whether we're going to have this material, or this point on the agenda. Namely, the motioner asked that, therefore, the initiative is to – The Council of Ministers is to prepare and, at the latest, by the next session, will say to today, to all MPs a comprehensive and detailed report on one thing and another. We don't have this detailed and comprehensive report, so I'm asking if we're still going to discuss this, or if we're going to end this part of the Rules of Procedure, so the debate on, not this part, but the debate on this initiative at all? If we end up with the conclusions proposed by our colleagues, I must first say that we have sought this information on the Transport and Connection Commission several times and have finally received this information. The information we received was such that the Commission was again, so it asked the Ministry to deliver the updated and complete information that we, which I suppose the colleague meant to deliver to this day. What could be seen there and what could be seen? I think we're too late for this story told by my colleague Vajzović when it comes to the Peljesk Bridge. There's 113 finished people or almost finished, at least what I've seen in the media people get money to build a bridge, have the consent of competent institutions in the European Union, have obligations to Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide what my colleague was talking about in a way that was determined by relations, that is, what the expert groups did, and I think we're late with this initiative. What, the other thing or another initiative, is an initiative that talks about events related to the construction of a bridge on Savi near Svilaj. I have to say that we received from the information an amazing thing or amazing information, that this job was given to a Croatian company that took over as a subcontractor "Metal" Zenica who went bankrupt after two and a half months. So, at the moment of the job, our contract-making people felt that it was good that "Metal" would work, be a subcontractor, and that was already in bankruptcy, a bankruptcy procedure. Next, the next step, which seems even more amazing, is that the company from Croatia, and I'm deliberately not speaking names, suddenly has serious financial problems and cannot keep the liquidity and business leaving a member of the college from Široki Brijeg, to the consortium from the Wide Brijeg. And in the end, the whole job gets whoever's supposed to get it at the beginning, that firm from the Great Brieg. That came out, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina, right. What I'm saying is that, as some of the examples that my colleague Backović has talked about many times, he's only talking about our ministry's relationship to such important issues as the Peljeski bridge, I'm not talking about the current ministry or the current minister, but work, this is a job that's taking a little longer and this is being talked about a lot longer than it is, he's just saying that there are other interests, unfortunately, put ahead of the interests that we're talking about here today. It seems to me that we're not too late for this second part, that at least that's where we're going to build that bridge on Svilaj, if nothing because of us, which corridor goes over that bridge and it's just not possible for Corridor 5c without that bridge to end. And again, I'm afraid that for all the initiatives when it comes to the Peljesian Bridge, we're better, we're late.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19023	Thank you very much. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19024	I'm sorry to return, but I have to complete this presentation of my colleagues, Novaković. In fact, on the Commission for Transport and Communications we sought several times information on the construction of the bridge in Svilaj and on the construction of the Pelje Bridge. As for the construction of the Svilaj bridge at the time of Damir Hadžić's minister's ministry, so many failures were made that Štrabag demanded compensation from Bosnia and Herzegovina 2 million and 600 and will receive the compensation. It's, it's a waste of money. The next steps are to renew the tender procedures and they have received these companies, i.e. the consortium they received, what counterpart Novaković was talking about. And I'm afraid we're coming back to the same situation as Bosnia and Herzegovina giving some money without having another bridge. And rightly, we in the Commission have reacted and asked for information and further information, and it seems to me that someone in that ministry is harassing us with the lack of adequate information, and they don't really want to deliver the information that we're looking for. And that's why this happened at this House, and that's why we've been looking for it, and here's why Hanka started it, and here's the agenda. That's one question. 114 The second question is the construction of the Peljega Bridge by the Republic of Croatia. We had informal information that at the time of the ministry, Bože Ljubić signed some agreement with the Republic of Croatia. We have never seen this document, we want to see this document, or if anyone on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given any consent to it, because under international law Croatia cannot build that bridge without the consent of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina anyone has given it, is that the Presidency, is that the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or, God Bog, here, Božo Ljubić as Minister of Transport and Communications, then we need to know, the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to know. That's why we asked to discuss on this, on this House, this issue, and that's why we're looking for information and all the contracts, all the consent. Whoever's on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina at any time... [[Employee is warned on time]] The Republic of Croatia. That's why this was on the agenda, and I don't think today's debate is over, but at the next session we want all this information to have and to confirm, that Dom is behind it and that we're looking here. Thank you very much. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19025	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19026	Here are the reasons why I decided to start this in the House of Representatives, we couldn't get answers from this ministry. I'm afraid we're confused, as the people say, jump first and say hop, we've disrupted some steps here, we haven't solved the access corridor before, the border at sea and things like that, and this goes. I think it would be good if we agreed today to pass this on as separate two points. She was third where we made constant demands, give us information, that's Corridor 5c. So that's three things we're trying to get literally out of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. We failed, and it would be very important to put the agenda here. So if people didn't get the material then there's no point in going further into the debate than, uh, leaving it for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19027	I agree, but here's the report. Željko Komšić is a representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19028	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry this is kind of a little abuse of this institute, but I had no other way, I'm not going to engage in this kind of discussion, I'm going to advise something, if you'll let me. You have here in this House of Men who really is an expert on these things, it is a colleague of Arnaut, I remember that period when he was an adviser to Mr Silajdžić's presidency and he really learned, especially the situation around the Peljesak Bridge. Because it's not that simple, there's a question of the border, of the sea borders. I ask you to listen to him, I apologize to my colleague Arnaut for this kind of thing, by quotes, by references, but I am telling you that the argument of 115 aspects of international public law and the law of the sea that Mr Arnaut then built, you can freely use it today in this whole story. I ask you if we want to speed up this story at least from that point of view, to listen to Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19029	Thank you very much. Representative Zaim Backović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19030	I'm sure I'll help you out here, because you're gonna do it on the legal side, and I'm gonna do it on the technical side. I think it is, that we are a rare state and a few people of a country who are very often doing a bear service, that is, we are working against our own country and against generations that are coming. I feel silly, because the other night on TV said that all the problems were solved and that the European Union had approved the funds for construction, I heard it with my ears, and then I took it to see, and since it will be debated fatly how it is possible that the basic rate of the largest port is directly in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territorial waters, as possible. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] In the inner waters, in the inner waters... meaning the basic rate of the bridge at the largest port directly in, so we have nowhere else to go, we're not going through our territorial waters, that's not true, but that's not going to be seen. It's very interesting and everyone's silent, and those experts, some of them show up and say yes, we did it and we agreed. How could that be? Mr. Novaković, you're absolutely right about these companies transge-frange, but that transge-frange in this country is going through a lot of trouble. Do you know what water supply systems are for, say, Brcko, Tuzle, where it's managed, do you know that people click on the computer one click to remove Tuzli's water, it's gone? Zenon from Budapest. We're a very, very strange country. In this country you can do anything, wonder country. What the Council of Ministers asked for is to give us, we are as an organ employer to the Council of Ministers, not the Council of Ministers to us employer. If there's a problem tomorrow, it'll be put on our necks, not the Council of Ministers, and they're obliged to provide us with full information. Which of our experts took part in the project, who? I've tried asking around all the houses that do this job, no one. Who? Who was involved in the project review? Niko. Who's in a row like that, I can talk all you want right now. Woe to our children, regardless of the name and the religious commitment, we destroy our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19032	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19033	I thank the chairman. 116 I, above all, thank my colleague Komšić for these fine words, this one, and he put a little burden on my back to explain this, but I did have some lines prepared already, so that we didn't seem to have an agreement. During that period, also mentioned by her colleague Vajzović, in 2007, in '08. So this session of the Presidency is indeed huge, and can be said even the only, progress made on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest in the international law of the sea, so this composition of Mr. Komšić, Mr. Silajdžić and Mr. Radmanović, to be completely honest, so this was a totally unique action and I took part, if I may say so freely, as adviser to all three members of the Presidency, which was a great honor and privilege, and I thank another Mr. Komšić for remembering it, although it has been a long, long time since then. After that, unfortunately, it is not, I can even say, anything done or extremely small on the protection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests when it comes to the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, etc. UNCLOS and this is, Mr Komšić is absolutely right, a very complex question. So, we have at least six issues that are related, let me put it this way, about this general issue of demarcation at sea between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. First of all, we have, number one, so-called. Bosnia and Herzegovina's flat baseline lines that do not exist. So Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country in the Mediterranean region that has never drawn its straight lines. Since the discussion is limited to 5 minutes, there's no way I can explain here what the straight lines are, but here's enough to say that we're the only country in the Mediterranean region, maybe even in the world, that has never withdrawn its own. I asked the Council of Ministers and got an answer to conclude that no one in the Council of Ministers knows what straight lines are. Uh, I suggested that they read some of the articles that I wrote about in international publications, but I never got an answer to the additional parliamentary question. That's number one. The number two, which depends on the number one, are the internal waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, by never pulling straight lines, we were never able to declare Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal waters, although we could, with these flat starting lines, be brief, close the Neumese Bay and then be the internal waters of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To illustrate, Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal waters, by international law, have an identical country's land territory. So, completely identical status, there's no safe passage, customs, borders, border police, etc., identical status. We are again the only country in the Mediterranean region, except for Monaco, which is too small to compare at all, this one, which has no internal water. Number three, the territorial sea of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have never concluded a final contract with the Republic of Croatia from which it could be concluded where our territorial waters stop and the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia begin. However, the situation is complicated by the fact, and now I'm moving on to number four, that the Republic of Croatia insists on the flat lines of the former Yugoslavia and insists that it has internal waters at the border with our territorial waters which are not allowed under UNCLOS. So, the former Yugoslavia had straight lines that pulled from Istria down to Dobrovnik, and the Republic of Croatia could not inherit or take over those straight lines because of Article 15. UNCLOS prohibits the country from drawing straight lines in a way that territorial waters of other countries separate from the open sea. We come to number five, and this is again the demarcation of the territorial seas between the two states, and we should insist that Croatia first amends its Maritime Code, which it passed in '94, and then reiterated in 2004, and that it amends that provision concerning internal waters between Cape Prozd and the island of Vodnjak in order for Bosnia and Herzegovina to succeed, i.e. to have the full right of 117 UNCLOS to achieve this harmless approach, and that is the least we have according to UNCLOS, a harmless approach to the open sea. And then we come only now, under number six, to the Peljega Bridge, or to the gauges of that Peljega Bridge. And the Pelješki bridge is somewhat bound to where it is, or whether it is located above the territorial sea of Croatia or above our territorial sea, and in order to know that we need to make the first demarcation. I don't have time anymore, but now I don't know if I can get another two, three minutes to finish this or stop now and use the replicas, I think it'll be faster to end up like this. Thank you, I'll give up the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19034	Don't give up, take you later replicas certainly used, say you, you'll have a chance, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19035	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19036	Mr. Ahemtović, we will not deny you what you have. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19037	Well, I'd be happy to give this time to my colleague Arnaut, because I know that he's an expert from both his profession and his science, so very close or closest to all of us here in Parliament to talk about it. I can only say or ask, therefore, the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina if this is the subject of an external-political plan, which is the talks with the Republic of Croatia and the leadership of Croatia and the European Union. So, we daily have information from the media that this is okay and what my colleague Backović said, so I also heard that when it comes to building the Peljega Bridge on our part, the informed public that there are no problems. Has politics been established when it comes to this by and the Presidency, does it have an opinion on whether it talks with the top of Croatia on these issues, did it also talk? So we don't have that information from the public. The fact is that our state summit is almost completely isolated, very few contacts outside Bosnia and Herzegovina or almost nothing, but this is an important and foreign-political issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the economic issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina and every other issue this Parliament should have an answer to. So we also have the foreign minister, we also have the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we have all those who can inform us about this issue that is very important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we have a view, as Mr. Vigemark is called, that excises are the most important thing to join the European Union, the other day he said that, it's the most important thing in the world. And so he, I understand, defends the Bank or the Bank of the European Union, but who defends Bosnia and Herzegovina's interests in talking to Mr. Vigemarka or doesn't know who in Brussels? No Niko, because they're afraid to go there and kiss their hands and come back, take pictures and say, well, we've done great things, we're on a good path, we're entering the European Union, we're walking fast, we're not, so everyone's so in the mood to see, I don't know, someone there called the secretary in Brussels. And we have a problem, so here's the one that's pulling out of the presidency's summons from a period of ten years ago. Give us at least these minutes from the Presidency whether, ever, anyone has discussed this issue or taken a stand at the 118 Presidency and transmitted it to, uh, the Croatian or Croatian Prime Ministers, the Prime Minister of Croatia. I don't know if, so I'm saying, I don't know, I don't know. So we should be given information on this matter if they think we should have it, so what time are we at? The bridge will end, Bosnia and Herzegovina will have a problem, then I don't know if we'll have the capacity to raise the issue before the court, because we won't have a consensus here and then Bosnia and Herzegovina will be closed when it comes to the sea. So it's one of the possible, possible developments. So, I think that, and I thank the distinguished Professor Vajzović for raising this question, I don't expect much explanation from the ministry, because around there's nothing, there's nothing anyone's done in the last 10 years and there's nothing to write. I'm afraid there's nothing to write to us either the Presidency or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, at least when it comes to one of the outstanding issues with the Republic of Croatia. I think it should have been on the agenda of talks and the presidency and the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, so one of the priorities in each meeting with Croatia's leadership. I hope there is room, that in time it has started to talk, that both sides should be satisfied with both the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this issue should have been resolved long ago, but I fear that no one has worked on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19038	Thank you very much. Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19039	Thank you. Here, as we agreed, I'm just going to continue, uh, just for a short while to Mr Ahmetović, uh, has a very large amount of that invitation to the Presidency, so, decisions, conclusions, notes even sent to Croatia on these straight starting lines which she had no right to declare. And if anyone knows anything about international law, the first thing they know is that the most important thing is precedent, or if you protest something. This session of the Presidency really did it and it can't be said that it's out of date, that, that base exists, so, uh, but it's been a long time and I think it should, uh, intensify these activities. Also, this meeting of the Presidency was, then the stories were that Croatia would build a bridge of 30 meters high and if anyone deserved it, if Croatia raised it to 55 meters, we have unofficial information that it is, that is, that is, that is, the meeting of the Presidency. You see, this is all defined by this international convention as I told UNCLOS. There was an Interressor Working Group for the application of UNCLOS, and I was appointed to the group in front of the Foreign Ministry while I was an ambassador to Australia, so interestingly Mr Lagumdžija named me. As far as I'm concerned, this group has never met and it doesn't work anymore. We're not too late, as Mr. Novaković said, anything but the gauges of the bridge. We have unofficial information that Croatia has agreed to a height of 55 meters and a width between the 200m arches. If that's true, if it's true, I don't have anything official, and if it really is, and now look out, this is the most important part, at a height of 55 metres of waterway, and that's the height from the high water line to the lower part of the bridge platform, because 55 meters can mean anything, if that's the height of the waterway, then that's, I can say, in accordance with UNCLOS and Bosnia and Herzegovina's rights under that Convention. We care about good relations with Croatia but I think we will have much better relations with Croatia if we insist on these rights, including this right 119 to a harmless passage. I don't know if we have the capacity to get that corridor that Slovenia got, I've never personally advocated anything like that. It should take everything into account, including the potentials of Bosnia and Herzegovina to come up with something like that, but in any case it needs to be with, the minimum we need to go with is what we do which belongs to us under the international law of the sea, which is that we are not going through the internal waters of Croatia but through the territorial seas of Croatia. [[Employee is warned on time]] The prerequisite is for Croatia to delete the straight lines between Cape Proizd and the island of Vodnjak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19040	Thank you very much. Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19041	Oh, just an answer, an explanation of what Mr Ahmetović asked. Yes, Mr Ahmetović, every time in the official talks of the Presidency or the delegation of the Presidency with the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is a presidential level or a prime minister, it is mentioned. It's really true what Mr. Arnaut said, imagine this case, I don't know when it was, about such important foreign-political issues the entire presidency, all three members were performing together. I once told the Prime Minister at the time, Mr Sanader, that because of what Mr Arnaut mentioned, that the Repbulika of Croatia had broken the International Convention on the Law of the Sea by its two-time legislation, that we would sue them to the International Court for the Law of the Sea in Hamburg. You know how he acted? It's like lightning hit him. Then he said, "This is not right, for the first time you mention it." That's why there's always the first time. They offered us arbitration. No, we were right, we have the right to go to the International Sea Law Court in Hamburg with a lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia. Now it's a matter of political assessment if you're going to get into it, if it's worth doing it, but we have the right to do it for the reasons mentioned by Mr Arnaut, because Croatia took advantage of the right it had for the former Yugoslavia to withdraw its border by that rule of the straight line. It's, I think, a nautical mile from the mainland. So, technical matters, technical negotiations, of course, led by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Transport and Communications, but the Presidency then took a more active role because of this situation and we made it clear to the authorities of the Republic of Croatia what could happen if we entered that story.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19042	Thank you very much. Hanka Vajzović, MP, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19043	Well, I was going to say that this point deserves, deserves actually a whole thematic session, it's such an important question, and it's so much, it's so good that if we had to do this right, it's such a shame for the local community, for Neum who, as if there's some nowhere else that we're neglecting that space. But I just wanted to explain, so it would be good, it's a shame not to take advantage of the coincidence, it was a Frisky arbitration with Slovenia and the day after tomorrow, I think the day after tomorrow that there would be a session, it would be good if Parliament today, but here I am as it is not, they didn't all get that material I suggested for the next session. I wanted only if I had so much time, why am I warning of this harmless passageway. 120 Because Damir Arnaut is quite right when he says that the previous Republic of Croatia must change some items in its law. Their law states – the harmless passage refers to the territorial sea. This part where the bridge belongs to the inner waters, which means if you go through that space, you can't get out of their territorial waters anywhere. You can go to Luka Split, Rijeka, to Ploče, where you will then because you enter their inner waters. And another thing that, God Bog, but there's a legal space left for someone to say tomorrow is that the government has changed, it's going to be, you're not going to, these are our inner waters, you're not going to do it again. There's a danger with this notion, with this termology harmless passage. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19044	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19045	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, here, I've listened to all my colleagues and I have to admit that in this range of debates on these issues, especially the Peljega Bridge, I've really met for the first time, so. I have some information from the public that they have, and I have some information from the commission... spoke, so it is not clear to me at this point what a shame it is, that practically someone is showing me, for Bosnia and Herzegovina, what a profit, what a threat Croatia is. So, it's good that our colleagues started that information that's the point of the agenda, that we get it and that we continue it at the next session. And that's why I just got up, so someone's trying to get us here... explain to us what a shame it is for Bosnia and Herzegovina, what she is, how she looks, which is why she's a pity, which is not a pity and how we're going to overcome her in agreement with them. There are, here are some indications that the height of the bridge, here, solves some of these things when it comes to Peljesac. That's why I'm saying this, because of these conclusions proposed by Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović. I first of all suggest that they are not voted on in the package because when we get this information, when we continue talking on this topic, then we will be able to talk about notes, and I don't know what, I don't think it's good because of good neighbourly relations, to everything that we're going to do together in the future as neighbours, etc. I cannot believe, therefore, that Croatia wants to harm Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I should be told that this is where it was done and done. So you don't get me wrong, so I don't mind the information being delivered, to keep talking about this. I don't know if it's so late and fast, when it's been waiting for 10 years and it hasn't waited, I don't know, people are done with this, and what Mr. Arnaut says is whether it's 55 meters now, whether it's 200 meters, and that all these concepts that we don't understand. So, I'm just suggesting that if Mr. Šemsudin will stay at this conclusion that he doesn't vote in the package, and however he wants to, I don't think it's mature time that we're making some conclusion today about the note when we don't know a lot of information. I don't know maybe some colleagues a little more, especially Damir, but some almost know nothing about it. So, come on, let's be serious, I suggest if we don't at least vote in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19046	Thank you. 121 I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 17th agenda, Ad. 17. Proposal for a conclusion of the SDS Club MPs: "The House of Representatives temporarily suspends MP Nikola Špirić from the seat of the chairman of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency until the Commission's statement on media allegations that he committed the counterfeiting of the Commission's conclusions", issue: 01-50-1-1619/17, from 05.07.2017. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate, Agent Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go. I'm sorry, Nikola Špirić, injury to the Rules of Procedure before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19048	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19049	So why don't you get yourself settled right, so I know what I'm gonna do, I think. Uh, Damir Arnaut, agent, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19050	I thank the chairman. Here, I'm not really going to, uh, I said the same thing today, and given the course of the session, and if I didn't get out of the session, I still didn't see what the portals were about, so I'm going to strictly stick to, uh, the Rules of Procedure. The first thing, so I'm the title of the initiative, and we don't have any, I mean at least I haven't seen any written material, but the House of Representatives temporarily suspends MP Nikola Špirić from the seat of the chairman of the Joint Commission, etc. A few business provisions again. The first question is, when it comes to the leadership of any commission, can Dom do anything about it? So it is absolutely concluded that if the commission appoints its leadership to commission and replace its leadership. The other thing is, we had a precedent. It wouldn't be the first time, uh, if the commission were to replace the chairman or any deputy, we'd had it on several other committees and it'd never been Dom. However, perhaps the most promising example here -- it is a joint commission, a joint commission, if I should go further, both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And given the constitutional, constitutional position both at home and at home, I say constitutional position, because both homes are defined as completely equal to the Constitution of BiH and even in the Constitution, constitutional matter is also the fact that both homes adopt each and every one of their Rules of Procedure, so the House of Representatives can do nothing that has a final character when it comes to any common neighbour. So, I'm here again saying neither I've seen any debates on the portals on this issue, nor know anything about this issue, I don't even know if these things can be spoken of in an open session given, uh, what committee it's about. But what we can definitely talk about is the Rules of Procedure, like this in the open debate, and I, I'm surprised that the chairman actually put 122 of this kind of conjecture point on the agenda, because you know, I mean really, really, uh, I don't respect you, but the House of Representatives can't suspend it at all, even if it can suspend the chairmanship of a committee, it can't temporarily suspend or commit any action of a final character when it comes to the leadership of a joint commission. So we here at the beginning have a very rough mistake regarding the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest, uh, a colleague from, or the SDS Club, whose proposal is already, uh, to think a little bit more about these issues. But, indeed, this one, I applaud, given the fact that since the beginning of its mandate, the OSA Commission has had a disbalas entity, because both rules clearly prescribe that 1/3 members of all joint committees come from Republika Srpska and 2/3 from the Federation. We in that commission instead of 8:4 ratio have 7:5, I think, 7 from the Federation, 5 from Republika Srpska, therefore to the harm of the Federation. In that case, I, too, applaud because this may be a prelude to correct it, to kick a member out of Republika Srpska and, perhaps, even at the head of that Commission, come someone from the Federation. I am truly grateful to the SDS, uh, which has done us this service to open this issue, because, I am not politicizing, take a stenogram from the 8th session of this House of Representatives when I have conducted a heated debate, perhaps the chairman of Džaferović will remember, when I held a heated debate with you which allows this ratio to the damage of the Federation. I didn't get a chance to get it right later, I'm glad my colleagues in the SDS finally did it and opened the way for us to settle this in favor of the Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19051	Thank you very much. Staša Košarac's representative, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19052	I'm taking another chance to say hello to all my colleagues and colleagues. I want all of us together to remind you of one fact that our position is definitely not an accident. We remember when there was a period of constitution of commissions and the controversy surrounding the structure of this Commission was that and then there were strong political pressures not to be Mr Špirić within the Commission at all, and it seems to me that those who seemed to be the authority at the expense of one of the Republika Srpska's positions gave the post to one of the political parties from the Federation of BiH just so that Nikola Špirić, in front of the SNSD, would not happen to be a member of the Commission. Let's remember the period when we had offers from some political structures here that anyone can, and only Nikola Špirić can't. We have a situation today that no one knows how to introduce the term of suspension of the chairman of one of the committees and that of the Joint Commission both at home, reminding everyone here to attend us in a way that when the commission is elected, the commission chooses its own college. I think we're getting into something that would be completely unnecessary. On the other hand, what is the material today, do we have the right today at an open session to talk about it, do we have the Commission's position in charge? There is obviously a certain amount of concern here, given that a meeting has been announced for 25 or 26. The Joint Commission, which means the commission of both homes, together with the Executive Intelligence Committee and the management of the OSA. OSA is not a means in the hands of one option, this is how it is tried, I would say using a jargon dictionary, to prevent the Commission from doing its job and to supervise the OSA. The OSA can't control the Commission, I don't think there's much of that here. Don't go too deep into these things, I think it's quite clear here that it's unfounded that on the basis of newspaper inscriptions, spins, the interests of some who participate in some of the institutions 123 this puts this on the agenda. Here, not only do we want to defend Nikola Špirić, Nikola Špirić should not be defended, I think Nikola Špiri must be treated in the best possible way using existing legal regulations that he has done several times. Are we going to launch every time an initiative to suspend any member of the commission or chair on the basis of some media inscriptions? Are we serious? It's a dilemma, a challenge I really want to share with all of you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19053	Thank you very much. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19054	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the return of my colleagues from the SNSD to the parliamentary bench, and we have just realized that Mr Nikola Špirić is the country's dry national interest in Republika Srpska, much greater than the debate on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office or the many laws we have done. So in the past period we have seen that Republika Srpska has two key national interests. One is excise, when MPs also gave up their principle and others are now a request for suspension of a respected counterpart, Špirić. It's not just media signs, there are people on these commissions who claim that these media inscriptions are correct. The second thing, I think Mr Špirić's interests are that, until this situation is cleared up, until it is seen whether or not it is true, he voluntarily withdraws from his forehead, temporarily from the Commission's forehead. If that's not true, there's no reason, a man stays at the head of the Commission. After all, there is Mr. Sredoje Nović, who comes from the SNSD who certainly knows more about these affairs than Mr. Špirić and, behold, he will have, today-to-morrow when he changes, if he changes, chairing the Commission, our support. We don't mind, man isn't, he hasn't used anything, he's doing it. So, I don't see any reason to panic. I guess it's everyone's interest to find out what it is and what it is and I guess it's the interest of Mr Špirić himself if it's not true to say – here's the people, I won't, so I won't say I'll affect it all, I'll move and let the commission determine the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19055	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19056	Please warn your colleague, I really, really, throwing her away right now is rude, I know they're rested that they haven't been working here all day. I think it's his biggest interest if it's right, healthy. Anyone who's right, healthy, move nice and let the commission finish the job, Turns out everything was fine and he comes back. [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19057	Thank you very much. Don't, uh, have a dialogue with each other, answer the word. Staša Košarac's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19058	Well, here, I really wouldn't want to take too much of this discussion and the previous one, but I want to say something. It is definitely Republika Srpska's interest that we have quality control over the OSA, given the fact that it is an intelligence agency at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that Republika Srpska does not have such a similar agency. And of course our goal is that through our people who come from the Republic of Serbia, we have adequate participation and supervision of the Komija because it is not, or that Agency, neither naive nor naive are those people who operate the Agency. We can talk a lot about this Agency, but the important thing is that we protect the interest of the Republic, which is quality supervision of the Intelligence and Security Agency, given that we have shared opinions here and the full public on the self, management of the Agency itself, of course, some of the work or some of the activities we hear from the public to be used. Of course, the goal is to determine the truth, but on the basis of which we will establish the truth, on which we will establish the truth. And that's why I said this wasn't exactly the most rational move and the smartest to do it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19059	Thank you very much. Representative Borislav Bojić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19060	Here, just for a little while, and I'll say hello to the distinguished colleagues and tell them that Mr. Džaferović is there, don't be afraid, you're welcome to sit down until the end of the session. And let me tell you, when it comes to suspension, there is therefore a possible suspension and neither Republika Srpska nor SNSD will be damaged. Mr. Sredoje Nović can certainly do this job as well as any other member of the SNSD, without any problems. So that's a fact. Therefore, no problem is a matter of choice. You can choose freely whoever you want in front of the SNSD, but right now until this question is cleared up, it would take that kind of suspension, and the moment this issue is cleared up, there's no problem with us, there's a willingness that unless we're right to give you words of apology, but I think we're right. So, there's gonna be a way to prove in this investigation who was right here and who was wrong. So there are certainly enough elements here to act, among other things, in the way we have suggested from the SDS and in no way will Republika Srpska be damaged. And we are not asking for Nikola Špirić not to be in the Commission, but rather not to be chaired by the Commission, since he has executed this type of act from that position. So that's the essence of what we've made.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19061	Thank you very much. Representative Lazar Prodanović, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19062	It is thought that there is absolutely no business assumption here to consider this item of the agenda. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure there is a term of suspension of the chairpersons, particularly joint committees, nor are there elements to consider this point 125 of the agenda. We do not mind that at the meeting of the Commission for, the Joint Commission for Intelligence Oversight, all questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, including, therefore, the initiative for the possible shift or resignation, and the business which is the way, therefore, this is, the replacement of the chairman's commission. So that's one question. The second question, we are entering a very sensitive issue here, so parliamentary oversight of intelligence services. Even if we adopt this decision now, it has absolutely no power. This would mean that we must amend the Rules of Procedure to appoint the chairman's commission homes and agree afterwards. In that sense, I believe that either, so it would be correct for the proposer to withdraw this item of the agenda. I am fully prepared, i.e. we are ready to support the Commission's initiative to conduct a debate in line with the allegations, including, therefore, a stenogram from that session that is being challenged, and that homes are being reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't think there's any dilemma here, we're wasting our time, and we're delegating the position of the commission in accordance with the business position it has, including the commission's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19063	Thank you very much. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19064	Well, if there are any of these dilemmas that will be, here I come from the Bosnian-Herzegovina entity Republika Srpska and, uh, there are no obstacles to replacing Špirić at the head of this commission. It's not nobody, it's no problem that as a Bošnjak from that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am in this Commission. But that's for another story. We, I am a member of this Commission, and I must say that in two or three of the session's continuing sessions, I participated in two, not in the third, and that in the last session, although even this is not a good thing to talk openly about this sensitive matter when it comes to OSA and the work of this service, and what we don't do at a closed session, we open up the possibility of talking more openly. It is in the interest of this country that OSA works in full capacity but also that the Commission also works in full capacity in accordance with the law. None of us are allowed to fall for this party or any other bickering that will certainly leave the consequences of OSA's work, and that's not good for the state. We have told the Commission that, given that the story has been opened that the President of the Commission has misused its signature or signed conclusions that have not been reached, which have not been voted on, but we have said that the Commission on the Minutes, which should be compatible with the conclusions, will be discussed at the next session, it is 25, already scheduled, is 25. If the Commission determines, and I voted in favour of such chronology, then I would ask the Proposer to amend the suspension and say the change, because if the Commission finds that Mr Špirić has signed conclusions that have not been made by the Commission then it should be removed. But as a member of the Commission, I propose that Parliament's proposal or leadership leave a statement for the already scheduled session of 26th, since the Commission will be 25. So, don't fall for the story or any party bickering, which is the biggest damage to the state, or the Intelligence Service, of which the OSA. Then we'll get into a bigger problem. I'm afraid we're entering a sensitive field, opening up a space from which we'll have a great 126 damage, a great deal of damage. So, the opening of these problems, the opening of problems should be if there are, and there are, but it is necessary to close the work of the Commission, but if it is necessary for the public to close, uh, Parliament's work and discuss it here. I propose to the Proposer, so if there is anyone, if we have a good intention, to wait for the Commission to determine whether there has been a failure and to make a statement. That would be a serious approach. If it is determined, I repeat, that Mr Špirić has abused, therefore, and signed conclusions not voted by the Commission, then there is no dilemma, he cannot be at the helm of this Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19065	Thank you. Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19066	Wait a minute, Mr. Ahnmetović, your discussion has gone a little further, we can't stop here now. This, as the people would say, is just one story about Nikola Špirić, you have here on two or three times, on the other hand, reiterated that the situation in OSA is bad and that you are proposing to hold a special session closed to the public on the OSA situation. Now does this have anything to do with this topic today, I think you owe us a sort of explanation – what do you know as a member of this Commission and we don't know? What's going on in OSA? What is this disturbance that here is now proposing holding a special closed session? Don't let people get over these things just like that, it's a service with significant and special powers. What are you suggesting to us, how, what, what's this about? Is this about the intelligence window of other agencies, is this about the leak of information, what's the problem with OSA? Because this is now for me, this, excuse me, Mr. Špirić, what is now yours is less important to me than this story Mr. Ahmetović told as a member of the Commission. Please, if you know this, initiate holding a special session closed, so let's see what's the problem with such a significant service. You know how important OSA is, not only on the internal agenda, but in international co-operation, especially in the fight against terrorism. Don't play with it, or we'll pretend it wasn't anything and cover it with ash and dust. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19067	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19068	Thank you. I am when I started discussing the Rules of Procedure, I said, uh, that I know nothing about the substance part and that I am even afraid that the debate does not go into that part, and it is open to the public, not to say something, uh, that would go public and potentially endanger Bosnia and Herzegovina's national security including in the field of, uh, terrorism, as Mr Komšić said. I, therefore, should have said this from the leadership, uh, home before me, but I urge Mr Ahmetović not to respond to certain things he may know as a member of the Commission, which are not to be said in an open session. But I think, and I think it's clear from all this that let politics stand behind this, that this isn't as simple as the SDS Club put it and that obviously there are problems in the OSA. But here, I therefore urge that, as my colleague 127 Komšić suggested, it should be done at a special closed session, that these issues be considered, and that today, in the open part, we stick to the fact that what the SDS has proposed, regardless of what their motives are clear, there are simply no business opportunities. It wouldn't be the first time, Mr. Chairman, that you simply find out, it's your right as chairman, that there's no business opportunity to vote at all on this point, that it's being considered at all, and where do you vote on this point, and that you just now take this off the agenda and, uh, I support what my colleague Komšić said, that a special closed session is being held to discuss these problems in OSA because they are from all of this, it's more evident that they exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19069	Thank you very much. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19070	Well, I don't know, here's my colleague Komšić said some things, a few things. I must say that at the previous meeting of some members of the Intelligence Committee, we have said that at the next session we will discuss the situation in the Intelligence Service together with the Intelligence Committee and the Management Board, i.e. the Director and Deputy Director of the OSA. Whether this will call for need and whether the College of the House estimates that this is current and important and that it should be discussed, so up to the College of the House it is that these issues, here I say, which I say that certain members of the Commission have initiated such a kind of session of the Commission to attend the chairmanship of the Council of Ministers, its two deputies, the Commission and the Director and his deputy. So that's what we concluded a few days ago on the Commission, yesterday. I haven't said anything new, and we're closing the session here and we're signing up for some bullshit stuff, and here we started talking about maybe the most important, most important agency, and it's very important for this country, and we can't get into a column that because of the day policy we vote and make a mistake. So, yeah, if he's wrong, Špirić needs to be replaced. This, the Commission's conclusion, is that it will determine 25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19071	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19072	I thank the chairman. Well, you know what, here, some new evidence came out during the day, media statements that confirm how right we were. In his statement today, Mr Špirić said that, so he publicly said this, that the mouth action is a serious story for a intelligence service in which for the first time, as far as I know, he says he knows, one state has seduced intelligence work towards the neighbouring country, according to Serbia. When Intelligence considered before that, and pleaded on the "Moses" act, Mr Špirić came out as chairman, so a few months ago, and said – the document we received, so the action "Moses" is original, there, it exists, and that OSA acted according to the law, there was no listening to citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor outside Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor officials. There was a little spin, a little bit of this, a little bit of that, and I'd like to stay professional and support the professional work of Intelligence. So, 128 two, on the same issue, this first conclusion was indeed adopted by the Commission, today's second statement. It shows that I'm afraid there are some abusers there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19073	Thank you very much. Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19074	Ma, I have answered too, and I will be very brief because my colleague Ahmetović said actually what was necessary here to say, because five living members of the Commission are sitting here, including Mr Špirić. Then, we know far more about this topic than the media, so it's not, perhaps, necessary that on the basis of... allegations we formulate this point. For business reasons, counterpart Arnaut normally explained quality. The next session of the Commission is scheduled on 25 July. It's very difficult for me to talk about this subject for two reasons. Like counterpart Ahmetović, on the last, at the last extension of the session at which these spectral conclusions were probably in play, I was not. That's one reason. The second reason is that when I talk about this, I am constantly standing on a thin or special regime of the Commission's work. I really propose, and I think it is best that, at the last session of this Commission, I think that I can say, the minutes from the previous session we removed from the agenda for two reasons, because it contained a question of how, why and what about those conclusions, and the second reason was that we had people outside the Commission at that session, so we discussed the Council of Ministers' report within our jurisdiction and that's where we put the agenda. It seems to me that far the best for both business and all the other reasons for this job to really be handed over to the Committee at his next session, 25.07. If the Commission is unable to complete this job and resolve it, then there are still more business opportunities that we will, uh, at one home and another, resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19075	Thank you very much. Mirsad Đonlagić is a representative, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to be honest that the more this debate moves away, the less I know, this is one extremely sensitive question. In doing so, I don't want to challenge anyone's legitimate right to suggest a part of the agenda, but I also think it's correct that we have enough elements for that part of the agenda, not that, based on sympathy, or I don't know, antipathies, we're committed to some things. This is an extremely important issue, an extremely important topic, and I don't think we should take it off the agenda, never talk about this again, but in order to be able to judge in a quality way we need to have much, much more details. Here, I would not repeat what is said about which segment and what important issue it is when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, there in that commission are extremely experienced people, I can't believe that they can afford to make such failures that if something happened, it won't be sanctioned. That we're asking them for a report, that this report is submitted to this House, and that's fine, but now I don't think they've gotten the conditions that we can vote on this item of the agenda, no matter how anyone thinks they'll give their vote for or against, but it's correct to say 129 that they haven't gotten the conditions that we're having a debate about this. Especially given the fact that it is scheduled, that the Commission is scheduled and that here we have heard discussions of those who are members of that Commission, who are just suggesting one of these approaches to resolving this issue which we are now unable to say without a sound debate, not wanting to read the portals and not wanting to read the newspaper and to discuss these things based on these written details in information. I would like to have a quality report from the Commission and then to discuss, on the basis of this report, if possible, the guilt of the chairman and to suggest some things so that they can be resolved that these things are no longer happening in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19077	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Špirić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19078	Mr. Chairman. So, I have no objection, in fact, it would be good for Parliament to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as it is always good for the Commission to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the law. This is the Joint Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, it is known how this Commission is established and how it is elected by the chairman. I'm not arguing with anyone that they're doing business with anyone's initiative responsibilities, and today I don't just want to come into a trap, because it's a highly sensitive area, to talk about the content of things that we're talking about in closed sessions. I thought today would challenge Parliament's attention in what way conclusions come out from closed sessions. The Commission has not yet agreed on the minutes of the 15th and 16th sessions. I am responsible for saying that we voted on the conclusions, that it was a 7-5 ratio, for the first time in the Commission, so we unanimously reached conclusions. It says that there are certain problems, certain challenges. The Commission must be..., cannot control the work of the Commission, but the OSA Commission for the sake of the citizens of this country, the state. I feel like it's what you want. I don't have any misunderstandings with the OSA leadership if anyone thinks anything at all. I have never been more supportive of them than I have been all this time, but I am not an MP or a member of the Commission who can manage the OSA. A couple of colleagues at the last Commission were having problems sending conclusions. How is that possible, the conclusions sent on 8 May, and that OSA has already followed the conclusions in April? Because people were in the session, feeling the need to deliver some of the material. Why does it suddenly get complicated, I don't know. I don't mind having the Joint Commission come to whatever position it is, and we will have the 25th session, because it was unanimously supported by the Commission yesterday with the presence of President Zvizdić to hold a Joint Session, so the Commission, the Executive Intelligence Committee, which makes it chairman, two vice-presidents and management of the OSA. We wouldn't hold her, people, if it were an ideal situation, so when we come to conclusions, it would be logical for this House to discuss in a closed session what we are talking about in closed sessions. Well, if it had to be public, it would have been public. How is it possible that the conclusions are public? That's what we should be asking parliamentarians. So who are we Parliament that won't strengthen its Commission, not Nikola Špirić? So in this country, if institutions don't get stronger, we're still going down. It doesn't matter if Nikola Špirić is going to be, so don't think that's why I'm fighting. Absolutely... but I beg to be respected by the Rules of Procedure and the Law. And whenever this area was in question, I was careful not to endanger the activities of the Service. Well, normally, when I'm attacked, I can't say party portals 130 – Nikola Špirić sent unauthorized conclusions. I'd like my colleagues from the Commission to discuss sitting here. Why aren't they here? I don't mind having an open discussion about everything in this country, and I'm not going to have a session about the metrics, because there were three extensions, and we don't have the opportunity to have a stenogram. The problem is why the conclusions aren't in the record, in one country. So when the American Congress calls trampa, both Republicans and Democrats want to know what's going on in the country, or any parliament in Europe. Why don't we want it? Here pick up the dust Nikola Špirić, no problem, I'm ready for it. Will the earth be happier? No, we can't put these things under the carpet. A member of the College sent an appeal to the Constitutional Court, many things fall under the work of this in courts and prosecutors who turn into political prey. Well, I feel the scars of a vigilante horde feeding the court and the prosecution. And I'm wearing it, I didn't say it wasn't institutions for me, I'm always within their grasp. If I can't wear everything I've done in this country in public for 20 years, I don't have to deal with this. My people, this country is going to the sunset like this. So, I'm sorry I don't want to talk about meditation, respect the Rules of Procedure, I respected the Rules of Procedure of the Commission and I still respect it, when the Commission has any report, it is obliged to send it to both homes. If you consider it necessary to have a closed joint session, I will respond and tell you everything I think about the metrics, but keeping the OSA's elevator. It would be good to deal with it, while Wikileaks saves the documents of the world's strongest service, we tire out the driver that he brought out the secret document. Well, people, so, then you mention Nikola Špirić in that role, so I don't mind checking it all out. Well, you don't think I'm that... or naive that I could play with serious state stuff, that I don't have any experience in it. So, I'm asking you only business, if Parliament has the right to temporarily suspend business, I'm telling you that we are entering anarchy. If we treat the Service this way, we'll push her into anarchy. It's not the Service Director's Office, nor is the Commission Nikola Špirić, nor do I have a problem with a man, I don't want that spin. Everything there is, that's what people know to say on the Commission, closed session, I'm reading party portals that say here. , without the Commission’s reply. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'm begging you, so I don't mind. to have the Commission take a position, to send a report to both Parliament's homes, to close the session, to talk. [[Employee is warned on time]] It's our country, it's our Commission, it's our Intelligence Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19079	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19080	Well, here, I have to, like my colleague, Đonlagić, say that as this goes, I'm less and less aware of this. I mean, all the time I feel like we're trying to blur something out in this whole thing. Now, I thought the question is whether it's a signed conclusion that hasn't been adopted, which I've taken as a problem, and now I realize that the problem is who's in charge, the OSA Commission or the OSA Commission. That absolutely has nothing to do with it, at least in my first opinion, maybe I'm mistaken, but obviously, then we don't have all the information here. So it's important for me to ask if this is what my colleague, uh, Ahmetović, was talking about, is a signed conclusion that has not been reached. It's the key to all this, when it comes to initiative, I'm talking about initiative, I don't know what happened at sessions, I don't need to know because I'm not a member of that Commission. Now the more important question is why the conclusion came to the public than whether it was brought or not. Well, people, you've put him in public, you sitting there like the Commission, I can't fight him, I have no idea what you're doing out there. 131 So one of you leaked it to the public, you clear it up between yourselves, and don't criticize us who wonder what it is, how, uh, is it true or isn't it true. I mean, it's not right. So I join all those who think the topic has matured for a serious debate at this House. Not this, this initiative, but the topic of relations now mentioned here between the OSA and the Commission, and within the OSA, and within the Commission, etc., in a closed session to open all these issues. It's not... about this debate, it's... But in one serious debate, people, let's get this off the agenda because I'm afraid this will follow us by the end of the term. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19081	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19082	Thank you. A colleague, Novaković, said the only topic here is whether a signed conclusion has not been adopted. No, the only topic here is how you wrote it – the House of Representatives temporarily suspends MP Nikola Špirić. It's the only topic that's ahead of us, if you'll... And I'm telling you again, wave as much as you want, that, uh, there are no business conditions to consider, let alone vote on it. And I'm saying again, I'm surprised that the chairman is having a debate about this and what I'm really underlining right now, and if you let me, I warn you, it's gone too far, one of these members of the Commission is going to say something that isn't public and then there's going to be responsibility, but there's going to be responsibility and a College if something that can't go public. Now let me go back to what counterpart Novaković said, that the topic is whether a conclusion has been signed that has not been adopted. If we were to decide here, in an open session, that we should first know the content of the conclusion, what is discussed, what is, what people voted for, and then we should get an insight into the text, that is, the document that you say is signed. And to find out all that and get an insight into us, we should close this room. So it just proves by itself that you're wrong when you say it's a topic, so it can't by definition be a topic because this is an open session. Therefore, to return to what is the topic, the topic is what the SDS Club wrote, the House of Representatives temporarily suspends MP Špirić from the chairmanship of the Joint Commission. And I'm going back to the basics of this, I don't know how they're not clear to you so far, the House of Representatives can't suspend anyone from the Joint Commission, the House of Representatives can't make a final move on any joint commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19083	Thank you very much. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19084	I thank the chairman. So, I join those who are less and less aware of how this goes on, but I have one proposal. So, I suggest that we don't finish the debate, that we put today's item 22, and that this point continues to be discussed, if we need to make a statement, and we're going to have 132 of this session on the 25th, so today, here's the last one, which should be closed too, we're not doing today, but as we did today, at the beginning, we're going to go with this and with what we've agreed here to discuss, and that we leave it all for the 26th, and we're going to have a session of the Committee on 25th, and that's the only solution that might be acceptable right now, because really, how are we going to decide, what?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19085	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19086	I really point to that, please finally get your attention about my business intervention. The House of Representatives may not decide today or 26th to suspend a member of the leadership of any joint commission. There are no conditions for discussion, and especially for the vote, therefore we cannot transfer the agreed agenda point to 26. And just to correct my colleague Lovrinović, it is not the next session, the next session of the Rules of Procedure will be required to be called in three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19087	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19088	Well, I don't know, I didn't hear a colleague of Lovrinović say we'll make a decision on 26th, that we'll end up with this agenda point the way we end up. So we'll have the Commission's position, see what the Commission has concluded, see if this is true, it's not true. Niko's talking about making a decision on 26th, but they're delaying a statement just about this decision until 26. What's the problem with business? Is that a problem now? I think this is a rational and pragmatic solution like that first part, and I'm joining this proposal to finish the session in a way that those two points of the agenda, so this 22 and leave this one for the next. I think that's a correct suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19089	Thank you very much. The Honorable Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19090	Thank you very much. Here, on the proposal of this point for the suspension of the Chairman's Intelligence Committee, I will approach it in the way that it should, as proposed here. Respecting all this, in fact, which I have heard, because it has already been pointed out several times that from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, I do not think we have any basis to discuss these matters in this way, without material, without any reason, without, to discuss it, and in particular to make 133 decisions when it comes to changing the chairmanship to do so, both choice and shift within the Committee of Commons. Of course, this is also done when it comes to permanent commissions and one or the other at home. There's a lot going on here, and I'm not going to, uh, mention something that I just, when my colleague said, experienced and experienced these days, I'm going to keep it quiet, because each and every one of you and of us is responding to the Personal Data Protection Act for the things he's talking about. So, in this case, my proposal would be, if we wanted to be what we're calling for, both business and legal, to get things back to the Committee. At this point, I don't think we have any reason, no argument, or any fact that we're discussing in one way or another, especially things that concern the work of the Intelligence and Security Service. So I would pray to Dom and, behold, my suggestion would be that we do not say anything about this point in any way or in case it insists on any statement, that it is not accepted, because I really think then we do counter what, here, all day, in some way, we convince each other that we are for some kind of system, how we are for the state, how we are for Bosnia and Herzegovina, how we are for the law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19091	Thank you. I, including the debate, for the debate only from this place as chairman, therefore I do not report for discussion, and I am obliged, since I am responsible for respecting, the first among the answers for respecting the Poslonik of Procedure, the Law, the Constitution, I am obliged, therefore, to say that I am responsible, of course, for each of the details and there is no need to warn me too much, it is my responsibility. So, it's every MP's responsibility under the Secret Data Protection Act when the material is the way it is, it's not marked the way it's supposed to be, what it says, what it says in this room. So I don't need to warn anyone in particular, and nothing that isn't constitutional, legal or business obligation or the jurisdiction of this House will be put to the vote. So I've shown it a few times now, so wait and you'll hear how things go on. We're going to the 18th agenda, Ad. 18. Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01.02-34-1-1590/17, dated 30.06.2017. The interim joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly home for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure, please pay attention, from the Serbian people delivered the report in the procedure on the appointment of a member of the Independent Committee. The proposed candidate for the Independent Committee is Vladimir Jurišić, with 91.66 points won. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. 134 We move to agenda item 19, Ad. 19. Consideration of the resignation of Mirza Milišić as a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council, issue: 01,02-29-1556/17, of 23.06.2017 and Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the duties of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, Act No 01,02-29-1556/17, of 03.07.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19097	I thank the chairman. We've just received suggestions from the SDS Club. Article 82(1) of the Rules of Procedure on the content and essence of the act, on the content and essence of the act referred to in each item of the agenda, shall be discussed prior to the decision on it. It is already scheduled to vote, we have not discussed the content and essence of the act that Mrs Pandurević has just divided, so there are no business conditions to vote on. I ask you to consistently apply the Rules of Procedure. The content and essence of the act shall be discussed before the decision is taken on it,...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19098	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19099	We can't even vote on these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19100	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. So, I said that everything that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will not be put on the agenda, everything that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will be put on the agenda. We have received a proposal for a conclusion on the agenda we discussed, and we will vote today at the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote on agenda points. We vote, point one. – The adoption of the minutes of the 47th session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're voting on the adoption of the record. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) 136 [[no microphone turned on]] You're funny at half past 11:00, that's, I don't, I have to admit. 29 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. We've adopted the record. We are going to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, from 20.03.2017 (second reading). Is this the second or is it the first reading?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19102	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19103	Prepare to vote. Vote now. 18 votes for, without votes against, 13 abstentions. No entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19104	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19105	It's an ex post adjustment. Let's go to point 4. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Taxes – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1185/17, from 09.05 and 12.06.2017 (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 for, 18 against, 3 abstentions, no general majority. The law wasn't passed in the first reading. Let's go to point 5. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01-02-1-1374/17, since 30.05.2017. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 votes for, no objection, six abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. The law was passed in the first reading. We're going to point six. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, issue: 01- 02-1-1377/17, from 31.05.2017 (first reading). 137 Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, no problem, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. The law was passed in the first reading. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, issue: 01-02-1-1378/17, from 31.05.2017 (first reading). Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, no problem, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have passed the Law of the 7th agenda. Point 9 is – Information on the state of justice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with special reference to the fight against organised crime and corruption, the BiH Ministry of Justice material, issue: 01-50-19-1344/17, since 25.05.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the College's conclusions in an extended composition, so we have suggested. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 6 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. So we adopted these conclusions. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 11 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. We've received this information from point 9. Let's go to point 10. – Information on the state of public responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina on 31.12.2016, material of the BiH Council of Ministers, issue: 01.02-16-1-1382/17, since 31.05.2017. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, no problem, 7 abstentions, enough entity majority. We've also received this information from the 10th agenda. We're going to point 11. – Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2016, issue: 01-09-1421/17, since 06.06.2017. We're voting on receiving information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 7 against, 10 abstentions, there is not enough ethnic majority from Republika Srpska's entity. 138
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19106	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19107	He can go to round two right now. Prepare for the second round. We vote in the second round of information on the prosecution's work. 20 votes for, 9 against, 8 abstentions, less than 2/3 against, Republika Srpska entity. I understand we've received this information. Let's go to point 12. – Information on the implementation of earlier initiatives and decisions of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs on ensuring equal rights for the work of each MP and MP club in the PSBiH – Proposer of the point: Member Sadik Ahmetović, number: 01-50-1- 1621/17, since 05.07.2017. We are voting on the adoption of a proposal for the conclusion of an independent bloc MP. Should I read you the text of the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19108	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19109	Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 for, 3 against, 9 abstentions, enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Let's go to point 13. – The Programme for the Development of the Protection and Rescue System at the level of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the BiH Ministry of Security, issue: 01- 04-1049/17, since 29.05.2017. We vote on adopting a Decision adopting a Programme for the Development of Protection and Rescue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 votes for, 6 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted a Decision adopting a Programme for the Development of Protection and Rescue at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and bodies. We move to item 14 of the agenda – Considering Denis Bećirović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 10.05.2017, which reads: "The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge of delivering the National Security Strategy of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the latest within six months of the day of adoption of this initiative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, as well as in the parliamentary procedure", issue: 01-50-1206/17. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 votes for, 15 against, no abstentions. 139 An insufficient entity majority of Republika Srpska entities. Round two?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19110	I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19111	Round two, let's go to round two right now. Prepare to vote in the second round. 22 votes for, 15 against, no abstentions. From Republika Srpska's more than 2/3 against, so this initiative has not been adopted. We are going to the 15th agenda – Consider the Parliament's initiative of the Independent bloc, submitted on 31.05.2017, which reads: "We propose to place a point on the agenda of the next session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and no later than 30 days, titled: Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016 and the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers' Work Programme for the period January – May 2017", issue: 01-50-1-1386/17. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative. Prepare to vote, disengage from the debate who applied for the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No more arguing, no more turning off, so don't make any mistakes, we can't vote. Prepare to vote. 14 votes for, 14 votes against, 3 abstentions. So, there is no general majority, this initiative has not been adopted. We move to item 16 of the agenda – Considering the parliamentary initiative of Hanka Vajzović, submitted on 13.06.2017, which reads: "It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare and at the latest until the next session of the House of Representatives (scheduled for 05.07.), this is now a surplus, providing all MPs with a comprehensive and detailed report on: 1. activities related to the construction of the Pelješko Bridge and 2nd events in connection with the construction of the bridge on the Sava near Svilaj.", number: 01-50-1-144/17. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for the conclusion of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. There were demands to vote individually here. Does the representative agree? So, prepare to vote on Mr. Mehmedović's conclusion. Prepare to vote. 26 for, no objection, five abstentions, enough entity majority. We've adopted Conclusion 1. 140 We vote on Conclusion 2. Prepare to vote. 21 for, 3 against, 7 abstentions, enough entity majority. Conclusion 2 was also adopted. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food 23 for, 3 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. I also find that we have adopted Conclusion number three. We're voting right now on Conclusion number four. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes for, without against, five abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I also find that we've adopted conclusion number four. Should we now vote on Mrs. Vajzović's initiative, we do not have it? So now we're voting on Mrs. Vajzović's initiative by not writing for the session that is today, but for the session, the next session will write so. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 for, 3 against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. We also accepted Mrs Vajzović's initiative, which reads as it reads, with the correction not on 05.07.2017, but on the next session, as it says there. Let's go to point 17. – Proposal for a conclusion of the SDS Club MPs: "The House of Representatives temporarily suspends MP Nikola Špirić from the seat of the chairman of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency until the Commission's statement on media allegations that he committed a falsification of the Commission's conclusions", issue: 01-50-1-1-1619/17, from 05.07.2017. So, uh, with this agenda point coming up like this, we've got a proposal for a conclusion that we're going to vote on. So, the proposal for a conclusion for this agenda point: 1. The House of Representatives calls, so we now vote on this, the House of Representatives calls on the Joint Commission to oversee the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency to suspend, temporarily, MP Nikola Špirić of the chairman of the Joint Commission by emergency until an urgent statement from the Commission on media allegations that he has committed counterfeiting the Commission's conclusions. 3. The House of Representatives is asking the Joint Commission to monitor the work of the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency to provide the House with information on whether the chairman of the Commission has sent OBA conclusions which the Commission has not adopted. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 for, 13 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. We've adopted these two conclusions, which I've read and which you've received in writing on this agenda point. 141 We move to point 18. – Report on the establishment of a proposal for candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, the materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home for the appointment of one member of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure from the Serb people, issue: 01.02-34-1-1590/17, since 30.06.2017. We vote on the appointment of Vladimir Jurišić as a member of the Independent Committee. Prepare to vote. 14 for, 14 against, 4 abstentions. So there's no majority here and we haven't made this appointment. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19120	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19121	At the request of the SDA Club, please, at the request of the SDA Club we vote again. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 14 against, no abstentions. An insufficient entity majority of Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19122	Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19123	I'll get right to it. Prepare to vote, we will go to the second round of voting immediately. Prepare to vote. May I have your attention, please, your attention, your concentration. 17 votes for, 14 against, no abstentions. _________(?) Repeat the vote. Please, at the request of the SNSD Club, we repeat the second round of voting. Prepare to vote again in the second round. So 17, please, 17 votes for, 16 against, 1 abstention. There is no 2/3 opposition from Republika Srpska's entities, nor from the Federation, so I understand that we have brought olduka on the appointment of Vladimir Jurišić as a member of the Independent Committee. We're going to point 19. – Consideration of the resignation of Mirza Milišić as a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications Council, issue: 01,02-29-1556/17, of 23.06.2017 and Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, Act No 01,02-29-1556/17, of 03.07.2017. Prepare to vote. 143 vote now. 17 for, 5 against. Insufficient entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity on resolution. Shall we go to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19125	I'll do it in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19126	Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-05-1.u19127	Let's go, then, to the second round of voting. Prepare to vote. [[Common discussion]] I'd like to ask the representatives for some attention to finish the session, please. 15 for, 9 against, 7 abstentions, no 2/3 against any entity. I agree that we have reached a decision on the discharge of Mirza Milišić as a member of the Council of the Communications Regulatory Agency. Let's go to point 20. – Information on the protection of the property of the owner of the old foreign exchange savings laid down in Slovenian and Serbian banks, and all according to the judgment of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg in Case 60642/09 Ališić and Others – Proposers of the point: MEPs Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vrazalica and Denis Bećirović, material number: 01-50-1497/17, since 14.06.2017. We vote on the adoption of the conclusions of Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, which you get, one, two, three, four, five conclusions, we vote in the package. Isn't that right, Mrs. Vražalica? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 votes for, no objection, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted all five of these conclusions in the package. We are now voting on receiving the information we discussed. Prepare to vote. 28 for, no problem, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've received this information. Point 21. – Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Poland on military co-operation, material No 01,02-05-21431/17, of 07.06.2017. We are voting on granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement. Prepare to vote. 144 Vote now. So 30 votes for, without against and 1 abstention, a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have given consent to ratification under point 21. Now we're going to point 22. – Confirmation of decisions of the BiH Presidency (Act of the BiH Ministry of Defence, issue: P-OV-07-03-10-9-47/17, of 2106.2017 and material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 17-50-1-1948-6/17, of 06.06.2017: 1) Review of the BiH Presidency Decision, issue: 01-50-11948/17, since 26.05.2017. 2) Review of the BiH Presidency Decision, issue: 01-50-1-1948-3/17, from 26.05.2017. We vote now on confirming Decision No 01-50-1-1948/17. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 votes for, no objection, one abstention, a sufficient entity majority. I find that we have adopted this Decision, in fact we have confirmed this Presidency Decision. And now we're voting on confirming Decision No 01-50-1-1948-3/17. Prepare to vote. 29 votes for, no votes against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I understand we've confirmed this decision as well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you to stay here for two minutes in the O.R., so I'd like to give you two notices. Furthermore, notices to conclude the work of the 49th session of the House of Representatives and to note that the next House session was scheduled for 26 July 2017 and to thank you for your cooperation, I would like to inform you that the College of the House of Representatives today received a request from a certain number, a sufficient number of representatives, to convene, in accordance with Article 68. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, an emergency session of the House of Representatives to discuss the work of the Council of Ministers. So a sufficient number according to the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in Article 68 states that, exceptionally from the provisions of Rule 67 of this Rules of Procedure, there are at least five MPs, so there are more than five, or at the request of most members of the House College, the Chairman of the House will convene the House session within three days of the date of receipt of the request mentioned, in which case the session agenda may be proposed at the beginning of its maintenance, and the materials distributed at the sitting itself. After receiving this material, the College of the House of Representatives held a session and assessed that there were no reasonable reasons for calling this session and I am informing the applicants of the initiative and the entire House that this initiative will not be adopted and that this emergency session will not be called on the basis of this initiative because there are no justified reasons, because today we have decided at the House to discuss the report on the work of the Council of Ministers last year at the next session of 26.05.(?), after the committee with the presence of ministers decides on a report on the work of the Council of Ministers and at a session to be attended and chaired by all members of the Council of Ministers. This is ours, my notice as chairman, you'll get, of course, and a written answer according to what I said in the stenogram. Thank you, safe and sound. See you at 26.05.(?) Session completed at 11:00.
