ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17327	Please take your seats, it's time to start working. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 45th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests were invited to this session: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. BiH Civilian Minister Adil Osmanović and BiH Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs delivered a notice of the inability to attend the session due to their official absence. BiH Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirko Šarović also delivered a notice on the inability to attend the session. The delay was announced by representative Dijana Zelenika. According to the Service of the Session, 38 MPs are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As indicated in your call for a session, in accordance with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, MPs will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. The questions are sorted by the order of arrival, and the representatives will present them in this order. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17328	Mr. Chairman. I asked my question in February, I'll just repeat it for a second if the Minister of Security is here. First of all, I welcome the activity that has been carried out in Bosnia and Herzegovina's real estate campaign and I am interested – Does it have information on the number of properties, so I mean the property, which was held by local communities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that were sold, so to unknown owners and what were local communities, and who gave the defences a positive opinion about, uh, these activities? Unfortunately, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, thousands of hectares or hundreds of hectares of land have been sold to fictitious firms, nothing has been done in this regard. So, I'm curious about what the local community, the commissioner, the mayor of 2 municipalities and local congregations were like about this, as well as the attorney general, does he have any information? If he doesn't have information in this sense, I'd be happy to get that information in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17329	Thank you very much. Can anyone from the Council of Ministers give an answer? So at this point, we have an announcement that there is no answer. I ask that this issue be handled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which means that either the answer in writing is delivered or that the question is repeated at the next session, as the representative chooses in his comment. Here you go, Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17330	I would be pleased that the Minister of Security, given that he provided detailed information two months ago, delivered this information in writing. So my question concerns the activities carried out by local communities and who are the owners of the property sold by local parliaments, which gave the defences positive opinions and how much in this sense in the local community's budgets, this, has been obtained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17331	We can then be in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers that the Council of Ministers actually only, in the context of their schedule of jobs, they know what the portfolio is, prepares a reply in writing, according to the Council of Ministers' order. Is that the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Security, what it is, let the Council of Ministers assess it in the light of the content of your question. If we can move on then I give my word to the esteemed representative, Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17332	I thank the chairman. I have been trying to get an answer from the foreign minister since May 2015, and I have tried several times through oral parliamentary issues, but no foreign minister has been there. And then there's the problem, because when I don't get an answer at the previous session, I only have, uh, one question at this session. And then I'm wasting it on my question, and the point of oral questions is to update it, or ask the ministers about the current issues. And then I'm not allowed to, because from the previous session I've transferred a parliamentary question to the foreign minister, I'm not allowed to ask any other minister about any more current subject. And if I had received from the foreign minister, as I should have, at the last session of the House answer to my then question, I would be able to ask today the distinguished Minister Semiha Borovac, the Minister of Human Rights, the question – What, as the competent minister of human rights, thinks about the racist statements of the Head of the Municipality of Novi Grad about who can and can not be a Bošnjak member of the Presidency, who can be Bosniak, who should be issued a certificate to be Bošnjak, etc.? I call on Minister Borovac to answer this simple question, because it is current, not that Mr. Crnadak is wasting my time on, uh, these issues that are no longer current because of his absences. 3 Minister, I failed to announce it, I had no right because Minister Crnadak was not in last session, but please stand up and answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17333	Thank you very much. So, you will now raise your question to the public and it will, by procedure, be set up by the competent ministry. This is, therefore, a session where we discuss issues that have been orally announced, as you know. Minister Crnadak had a question. Does Minister Crnadak have an answer to the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17334	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17335	So you didn't ask a question. You have a comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17336	Chairman, I think the question is simple – What does the Minister of Human Rights think about racist statements by the head of the Novi City Municipality about who can and cannot be Bošnjak? Please don't stick to procedure hard. Have the minister stand up and speak his mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17337	Please, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right to ask a question, to announce the question in oral form, 24 hours before the beginning of the session. The issue is being delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers and these are the only issues that can be discussed at the Parliament's session. Every question, including what you have asked, will be answered by it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's my comment. I now give my word to the honourable representative Maji Maji-Gasal-Vražalica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17338	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. My question is addressed to the BiH Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Osmanović – Why has the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs not been provided all these years... with funds for the Health Sector and will the BiH Ministry single out funds for the purchase of GPS bracelets for children with autism? If, seeing as Mr. Minister is not present, someone from the Council of Ministers of BiH will probably give me an answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17339	So you heard the question. Is the BiH Council of Ministers prepared to answer this question? 4 So no. Representatives, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17340	Well, it's unclear to me, since the minister also has his deputy that he's not even in attendance and that he's giving me an answer to this question that's very important, with the fact that I'm demanding, that I don't spend the next session on this issue, that the answer to this question be delivered to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17341	Thank you very much. You've heard the service request from the representative. postupiti as the MP asked in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I give my word to the esteemed representative, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17342	I thank the chairman. Honored chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers. My question is to the Minister of Communications and Traffic, Mr. Jusk. I mean, I know he's not directly in charge of this, but he certainly has information. After the change of Corridor 5c route in the Mostar area, I am interested – Can we get information and is the correct information that has appeared in the media that a new route is passing below, meaning as a tunnel, the land of Ortiš airport belonging to the Armed Forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17343	Thank you very much. Minister Ismir Jusko, Minister of Transport and Communications at the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17344	Honored chairman, MPs, MPs, media representatives. Dear MPs from the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH and the Ministry of Defence held a meeting in 19.12.2016 on the subject of Corridor 5c route in the area of Ortiš airport. On the basis of a meeting held, the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH, on 20.12.2016, requested written consent from the Ministry of Defence for the Corridor 5c route that passes through the area. To date, no written document from the BiH Ministry of Defence has been received in the Public Enterprise of the Federation of BiH on the basis of a request for consent. Depending on the consent received from the BiH Ministry of Defence, the position of the route in the area around the said airport will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17345	Thank you very much. zastupnica Pandurević, comment. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17346	I would like to thank the esteemed Minister for his reply. I would just point out that it is a promising military property and that here it is the responsibility of the BiH presidency that, for such a course, jurisdiction should give consent, for the use of prospective military assets must be given by the BiH presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17347	Thank you. I give my word to Honorary Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17348	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My question is addressed to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Dr Zvizdić, and concerns the activities of the Council of Ministers, i.e. inactivitys in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Cake Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17349	Thank you very much. Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mrs Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17350	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable delegates. Following a series of failed attempts to pass the Law on the rights of victims of torture in Bosnia and Herzegovina at a thematic session of the Joint Committee on Human Rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in June 2015, an initiative for the creation of the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina was updated when a conclusion was adopted that the BiH Council of Ministers was also tasked with preparing a draft law on the rights of torture victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In October of the same year, the BiH Council of Ministers formed a Working Group for the drafting of the text of the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which the government of Republika Srpska did not only delegate its representative, and the same Decision left the possibility of subsequent accession of its representatives to the Working Group. The Working Group has drawn up the working text of the Law by handling the principles of United Nations Resolution on basic principles and guidelines for the exercise of the right to legal remedy and reparation of victims of serious violations of international rights, human rights and serious violations of international humanitarian law. The BiH campers' association during the work of the Working Group submitted its proposal to the Law on the Rights of Victims' Rights to the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, whose proposals were expressed during the work of the Working Group. Under the applicable entity rules, certain rights as civil victims of war are exercised by this category, but there are different legal solutions in terms of these rights. Therefore, there is currently an expert analysis of entity laws, then the proposed text of the Labour Group Act, as well as a proposal submitted by the Association of Campers of BiH. The analysis is aimed at establishing a common basis for the status and rights of torture victims. The analysis should be completed by half of May, so these days. 6 It is a significant issue of the protection of human rights and we are aware of the specificities and sensitivity of this area and we pay particular attention to it, with a view to reaching full agreement on the nature and scope of the rights of torture victims. The adoption of this Law really requires time and therefore this programme activity from 2016 was transferred to the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17351	Thank you, Your Honor. Commentary, Mr. Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17352	Madam Minister, you've reached out to the delegates and we're MPs. So, I insist on a written answer and, of course, I use myself to appeal that these activities definitely end and the law is in parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17353	Thank you very much. Let's move on, the word has a esteemed representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17354	The Honorable Chairman. I have one question very precise and clear. I refer the question to Justice Minister Josip Grubeša, and the question is – did he, as a resolution minister at the Council of Ministers of BiH and a man standing at the head of the Justice Ministry, propose any legal act aimed at protecting the victims of genocide and victims of war crimes in one principle, fair and legal way? If so, I'd like to hear about the legal proposals. If the answer is no, I'll have a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17355	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17356	Thank you very much. Dear chairman, members of the College, respected MPs, MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers of BiH, ladies and gentlemen. Appreciation of the provisions of the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Administration for the Protection of Victims of Crimes, and hence victims of genocide and war crimes, is not within the jurisdiction of the BiH Ministry of Justice, but of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Regardless of the lack of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice to be the bearer of these activities, bearing in mind that victims of all criminal acts, and especially the most severe such as genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity, are not statusally protected, or the system does not address these issues adequately, representatives of the Justice Ministry will make their full contribution to the working bodies formed by the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for the production of legal texts from this area or other normative acts. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17357	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17358	Usually the MP says he's not happy with the minister's answer, but I have to say, this is a terrible response. The minister of justice is now telling both parlament and citizens that he is not in charge of helping victims but has been competent to propose a law that provides for the assistance of war criminals and that of the convicted. It is hard to find the right word to describe the legal situation of things in the right way but I must really say that with this kind of response and this kind of work of the BiH Ministry of Justice, it may be better to call it the Ministry of Justice in the future than the Ministry of Justice, because it found it appropriate to protect war criminals, rather than those who were victims in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17359	Thank you very much. I give my word to the honourable representative, Safer Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17360	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. My question is also addressed to the Minister of Justice and that is – at what stage is the implementation of the complaint at the Order of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office of the Tuzla Canton of 19.01.2015, which was directed by the Municipal Council of Banovići?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17361	Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, Mr. Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17362	Thank you very much for asking. As soon as this inquiry was received, the ministry directed the competent institution to receive an answer. Since we haven't got the answer yet, as soon as we get it, we'll send it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17363	Thank you very much. Commentary, the esteemed representative Demirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17364	Well, I'm bound to comment a little bit. So, this procedure was initiated in 2013, the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office adopted the Order on 19.01.2015 and informed the Municipal Council on 21.01.2016, meaning one year after the adoption of this Order. The municipal 8 councils have referred, so, enquiries to multiple addresses, none of which we haven't received yet, one, the answer to which stage is the realization of this complaint. So I ask you that when you get this from the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office, you will definitely deliver it to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17365	Thank you very much. I give my word to Honorary Representative Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and given the chaotic state which in Bosnia and Herzegovina has ruled in the area of higher education, and I want this opportunity to warn about the consequences we will really be suffering, and this serious consequences, for years because of this, because of this fact that the situation is completely unsettled. I would like to commend the Ministry of Civil Affairs at the same time that about a year ago they made a decision to adopt priorities for the development of higher education for 2016-2026. So, starting with this belief and this information that I have available that the situation is really extremely serious, and even dramatically in certain segments, I want to ask the Ministry of Civil Affairs – Do they have feedback on the effects of the decisions made? If there are – what are they, if not – why is there not, and does miisitarstvo in this sense intend to take any action towards higher education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17367	Thank you. There's no Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs here. So you can choose whether you will answer in writing or ask again at the next session. Please just give me...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17368	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17369	Well, of course, that's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17370	Just to remind you that I also asked the Foreign Ministry a question maybe two months ago, I didn't get an answer, and I ask the Foreign Minister not to send me an answer on that question, so he thinks I pulled the question. That's number one. But I will not give up on this, I insist that the status data on higher education, on the power or impotence of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and those in charge of the issue of higher education be made publicly available. It's an extremely serious question that we don't discuss for a moment, whether it's our jurisdiction or not. This tall House, the most responsible in Bosnia and Herzegovina's legislative sector, must take appropriate measures to introduce the situation in the higher education segment as soon as possible, not to lead to a nine-optimal state, but to fix it, because what we currently have on the ground is really alarming and dramatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17371	Thank you very much. From what I understand, an oral response is required at the session. For the next session let the Ministry prepare an answer and let it be answered, and you will have the opportunity to ask that question again, that is your choice. I give my word to the honourable representative, Fehim Škaljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17372	Thank you, Chairman Džaferović. Mr. Zvizdić, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. One social institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina has 105 years of existence – the Red Cross/Red Cross of BiH as part of the International Red Cross Movement and the Red Crescent. I refer my question to this celebration, and based on the talks I had with the representatives of this organization, I refer to the respected Minister Borovac, with the commitment to obtain information – How is the position of this institution in light of the fact that since 2004, we have a special law on this? So, what is the capacity of this law, what did it show in the field? In a conversation that I had with representatives of the Red Cross, I was told that there was a need to amend and supplement the law, because in some things the practice has shown that it does not work, as well as the provisions which provide for the possibility that this institution obtains equipment under favourable conditions in relation to tax and customs barriers is not implemented because it does not comply with some of the rules relating to the Directorate for indirect taxation. In order to help them to have this important social institution and young people involved in this, we are undermining as Parliament to continue, I refer this issue to the minister with the intention of being active in this area and contributing to the promotion. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17373	Thank you very much. Minister of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mrs Semiha Borovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17374	Thank you. Here, now I give my regards to the MPs, I apologize. The Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH with a single network of Red Cross organisations and volunteers who are the basis of this organization on their own or in partnership with government institutions or other non-governmental humanitarian organisations was also the driver and realiser of a series of activities in response to the needs of the most vulnerable categories of the population. Their activities are also seen through quality international co-operation and the participation of society in the work of international organisations and actions carried out at regional level and beyond. The BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees in Continuity supports the work of the Red Cross/Crying BiH Society and grants a 150,000 KM grant each year as a contribution to achieving the goals of the Society. 10 When it comes to the process of amending and supplementing the Law on the Red Cross/Cross of BiH, the Ministry launched an amendment to the Law in 2012 to comply with international standards relating to the powers of the Red Cross Society, especially during elementary disasters, and other natural and other disasters in the world, as well as clearer roles of the Red Cross/Cross Society in humanitarian activities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The activity on amendments and additions to the Law was suspended on the basis of the Red Cross position of Republika Srpska, which informed the Ministry that it was withdrawing from the procedure of amending and supplementing this Act due to unconformed positions on the content of the amendments, which implicated changes to entity laws. The Red Cross/Cross Society of BiH has left the possibility for entities to agree on the content of the proposal for amendments to the law. The BiH Council of Ministers has also been informed of this. In the last two years, the ministry has not received any new proposal to amend and supplement the law by the Society. The issue of duty-free imports of the Society's equipment is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH Direct Taxation Authority. At the end of 2015, the ministry organised a meeting with representatives of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and the BiH Direct Taxation Authority due to problems in exercising the right to duty-free imports. The problem is seen in the fact that there are no clearly prescribed procedures that define the right to duty-free imports of equipment to Bosnia and Herzegovina, although the applicable Customs Policy Act of BiH allows humanitarian organisations to be exempt from paying customs duties, i.e. those sublegal acts that need to be defined by the way these rights are exercised. On the basis of the asked question, we contacted the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH, which informed us that the procedure for the production of these sublegislative acts was completed, and that their adoption at the BiH Council of Ministers is expected soon.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17375	Thank you, Minister. Commentary, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17376	I'd say that's how to answer, coordinate, get an answer and give a message to those we're in charge of taking care of. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate the organisation of the anniversary, to invite the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to provide individual material assistance to this organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17377	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17378	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the chair, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. My question was asked to the BiH Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security of BiH – What has the Expert Group done so far to amend criminal law and bring the provisions of the criminal laws of the entities and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina which began with its work more than 11 years ago? What is meant to be done to finally standardise and sanction the crimes of child abuse, child trafficking, child pornography and similar crimes against gender freedom and morality, especially from the aspect of child protection, that is, in accordance with the practice of the countries of the region, tighten sanctions for the perpetrators of these increasingly frequent and more frequent crimes? Is it intended to establish in Bosnia and Herzegovina a unique register of persons who have committed such crimes, or a register of pedophile in order to protect the entire community, because such registers exist in the countries of the environment as well as in countries around the world?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17379	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by the minister of justice, the esteemed Josip Grubeša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17380	An expert group, mentioned by a prominent representative, is called the Monitoring and Assessment Team after BiH Penal Code was passed in 2003, as well as the Law on Criminal Procedure of BiH. The team was comprised of legal experts in the area of criminal law representing the most judicial institutions at the state, entity level and Brcko District, as well as entity law offices. The team's task was, as it calls it, to monitor and assess the application of criminal laws originally passed on a provisional basis by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the same text. The follow-up team and the assessment of the application of criminal laws has carried out its tasks by the beginning of 2013. All the proposals prepared by the team in its ten-year work have resulted in a large number of amendments and additions to criminal laws adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly The penal law of BiH since 2003 has been amended and completed nine times, and the BiH Criminal Procedure Act eleven times. The amendments and additions of criminal laws at national level were mainly accompanied by changes and additions to the identical provisions of the criminal laws of entities and Brcko District, given that there were the same problems in their application at all levels. As regards provisions that protect children's rights through criminal laws, it is important to note that a provision is incorporated in the Penal Code of BiH which prescribes a prison for international trafficking in persons who have not completed 18 years of life and can be determined for a period of at least 10 years, Article 186, and Article 187 provides for an international punishment for prostitution of 6 months to 5 years. Other provisions sanctioning child abuse, child trafficking and child pornography and similar crimes against sexual freedom and morals, particularly from the aspect of child protection, have been incorporated into the criminal laws of entities and Brcko District. As regards the prescribed sanctions for these offences, it may be pointed out that for all acts, prison sentences are prescribed where, for certain cases, a lower minimum of 5 or 10 years, respectively, until the maximum penalty has been fixed, which means that prisons within the limits of the above maximum penalty may be imposed for 20 years. Given the division of jurisdiction, there was no plan to prescribe these parts in the BiH Penal Code. As regards the issue of establishing a single register of persons who have committed criminal offences to the harm of children, etc. The pedophile register is about the BiH Ministry of Security's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17381	Thank you very much. 12 Commentary, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17382	Of course neither I nor my colleague Denis Bećirović are satisfied with your answer. The European Union will not be absolutely interested in whether it is a division of entity competences, this is about the interest of our children who have been abused and I do not know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there has been a criminal sanction for pedophile that is up to 10 years old as you have said it. All the credits someone needs to give themselves are the representatives of the Ministry of Security who did a great job in the field of child trafficking and human trafficking, and I congratulate and the current assembly, and also the last meeting, so that's what you did. It is unclear why 2013 was abolished, the work of the group was abolished, I know who chaired it, I do not want to appoint a gentleman whose decision it was, but we are aware that every few in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are putting changes to the Criminal Law on the agenda, which shows that BiH Criminal Law is not good, it is not finished, it is not well done and it is not in line with entity laws. You and I both know that. So on behalf of the protection of our children, the children of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are increasingly victims of abuse, not only of physical abuse, but of sexual abuse, in the name of the fact that in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is an increase in the number of paedophiles, that at least two, three, five times What we can read about is that the children of Bosnia and Herzegovina are raped. [[Embassy is warned on time]] As BiH Minister of Justice, I advise you to consider opening a new chapter in the Criminal Law of BiH, in line with positive European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17383	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17384	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. I would like first to point out that from December when I asked the question at this House of Justice about the number of cases in courts older than 5, 10 and 14 years of the minister was gone, in January we repeated it, the minister was gone, I sought a written reply unfortunately I did not get it. My question today was addressed to the finance minister, Mr Bevanda, finance and vaults, which is: Who, why and on the basis of which criteria and reasons he decided to seek and take a loan from the World Bank of 56.6m euros? What exactly will be done with that money, where it will be invested, whether the entire amount will be in money or will it be paid for by other people's advisory services? Will there be a reduction in interest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will after this credit debt be better for legal persons and citizens related to the business of banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina? What good will citizens benefit after that?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17385	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17386	Hello, everyone. Yesterday afternoon, I was passed on a question that did not have this width, namely Mr. Rančić's question is that this question is being announced, and yes, I will try to give an answer, and I will record all of this as an additional, so if there is an incomplete answer, then I will also write it in writing and supplement it. The issue was, in fact, about taking loans from the World Bank to support the financial sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a number of loan agreements in the conclusion process or are concluded with the World Bank, and in the area of the financial sector there is currently a procedure for the conclusion of the Loan Agreement for the Project – Strengthening the banking sector. In this regard, the Council of Ministers adopted an entity government initiative at its meeting of 30.03.2017 to hold negotiations on the conclusion of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the World for the Projects – Strengthening the banking sector. The loan amount is $60m, of which a location for Federation 30 was proposed and for Republika Srpska 30m. Loan conditions are up to 30 years, including grace period of 17 years, interest rate is variable, usually 6 months
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17387	Thank you very much. Commentary, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17388	I'm not happy with such a short answer, maybe it's not an answer or a focus on the questions I've asked. The minister has prepared himself as he thinks he should, so I will ask the Honorable Minister to provide me with a precise, clear and comprehensive written answer to the question exactly as I asked. As I understand the answer and this loan is in a way that the state is re-indebted to restructure private banking capital, i.e. private 14 fallen banks. For me, it's unacceptable. In one media report, I don't know if it's true, I read somewhere that banks in the last year were trading with 969 million profits. They have bad business, and I think it's logical that the state doesn't get involved in it. Let the banks of their total turnover and their profits create an appropriate fund, be mutually helpful and sound, be restructured, not restructured, and not restructure private fallen banks. As far as the question is concerned, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure, we are not obliged orally. the issue to write and send to ministers, but only to announce it and the area to which the issue relates. [[Employee is warned on time]] I did it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17389	Thank you very much. I give my word to honourable representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17390	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. My question concerns BiH's defence minister, and is related to the regular rotation of the general's crust in key positions in the Armed Forces of BiH. In fact, on February 28th, the deadline for a regular rotation in all key positions in the BiH Armed Forces concerning the generals has expired, but this has obviously not been done to date. I'm interested in where the stasis is, why isn't it done? Because, imagine, there is no rotation of the members of the BiH Presidency, the House of Representatives College, the College of the House of Peoples, etc., is this the introduction of any new precedent and new practices in the Armed Forces of BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17391	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ms Marina Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17392	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I did not get that question, but I am willing to answer the question because I did the same, and I gave that answer yesterday to the Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly for Defence and Security, and, therefore, an answer or rather an inquiry to the BiH presidency which is responsible for the appointment of Generals of the Ministry of Defence I signed on 16.12 last year, where the structure of the General Cora is first determined. Of course, after establishing the structure of the general crust, access is made to the proposal for the appointment of persons. I have to say this isn't a precedent, because these things have happened before, but here's the answer, I can give you a more detailed answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17393	Thank you. 15 Comments, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17394	Of course I have a comment, I asked this question yesterday, the day before, excuse me, at the Commission's defence and security session when, due to the absence of one of the votes of a constituent people, there was no political will to ask for written information on this issue at all. So someone doesn't care at all why there's no regular rotation. I sent a question in time, and I was not even obliged to write it in detail, but I announced it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Therefore, I expect detailed information on where the stalemate occurred, because imagine that for a time it was a completely one-national structure in the BiH Armed Forces chain of command. So that's not good, because imagine we're going to get into a situation, let's say, in a year, two, five, it doesn't matter that the other two people block the third, etc., it's not a good practice in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think when the time of the regular rotation comes, it should be done as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17395	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. My question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The area to which the issue is concerned means the BiH Institutions Audit Office has carried out an impact review on the topic – the management of grants in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The findings resulting from the revision indicate that the existing way of managing grants is not effective and aimed at achieving results. Although significant funds are allocated year by year through grenades, especially for certain areas, there are no indications whether and to what extent an improved situation is in one, and in one area for which grants have been allocated. In order to improve the management of grants and to create better conditions for achieving the objectives for which grants are allocated and more efficient use and such limited budgetary resources, the Audit Office has made certain recommendations to the Council of Ministers. Given that, in the opinion of the Audit Office, it is possible to implement the recommendation during a relatively short period of time and that, during the preparation of the 2018 budget, I am asking the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers – What has been done so far on the implementation of the recommendations made, since the report was delivered at the end of December 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17397	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17398	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected fellow ministers from the Council of Ministers, distinguished media and guests, I welcome you all. 16 I would like to thank the honourable representative on the subject, and I can give the following answer, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, therefore, immediately upon receipt of the recommendation of the Office of Review on the subject – Management of Grants in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as upon receipt of the same conclusion from the 41st session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, and the same conclusion from the 27th session of the House of People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held its session and reached the conclusion that the ministries and other institutions of the Council of Ministers of BiH have been in charge of removing all observed irregularities within 6 months, i.e. implementing recommendations to the Council of Ministers to provide information on the activities undertaken on the full and full implementation of the recommendations of the Office's review report on the subject matter, according to the structure and content set out in this conclusion. So, the Council of Ministers' conclusions are actually based on 10 recommendations made by the Office for the Review on the subject – the management of grants in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, three of which refer to the Council of Ministers in general, three of which refer to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury and four of them to all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in general. The audit itself was done comparatively for 2014, '15. And '16. A year and a few important things are visible. First of all, there are problems in the inherited practice of grant allocation, but there is also a whole series of positive findings, such as, say, one or a series of them that the Audit Office has found, that it has come to light in the medium-term plans of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2016-2018. It has been cost-effective to include projects, activities and programmes to grant grants that contribute to the realisation of strategic objectives in these areas, as well as to the important sectors and areas for which grants are allocated, such as sport, culture, justice, Roma problem, etc., necessary strategic documents have been adopted. Of course, the recommendations themselves show certain irregularities or shortcomings and, in this sense, the institution will, together with six months of this year, implement the necessary level of harmonisation of procedures at the level of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, clear evaluation of the requirements and certainly better control of the results and objectives achieved for the grant allocations in the areas concerned, so that this year and when the grants are allocated, and certainly when the budget is set up for next year, we will be guided by recommendations given by the Office for the Audit of Institutions in this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17399	Thank you very much. Commentary, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17400	I thank the chairman for the information I have asked. I consider the Council of Ministers responsible and, in some ways, the Council of Ministers should coordinate the work of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury as well as certain institutions, which is why I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And, here, I have, to say, satisfied with the answer received but, in order for there to be no such questions from me or my fellow MPs in the future, I would suggest that for all the audits carried out by the Council of Ministers' Audit Office, a comprehensive report should be drawn up and delivered here in parliamentary procedure, and that we MPs should also be in the process when it comes to the implementation of the recommendations made. All of it, here is the activity and what the Council of Ministers is doing, in my opinion, has one goal, which is strengthening the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17401	Thank you very much. 17 I give the word to the honourable representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17402	Thank you. I welcome you and your deputy, colleagues and fellow representatives and everyone else present. For a change, I will not ask the question of President Zvizdić, but I will ask him to deliver in writing the answer I asked at the previous session. My question goes to Minister Pendeš. A year and a half ago, members of the BiH Armed Forces Armin Salkić and Nedeljko Rodić were killed in a terrorist attack in Rajlovac. - Is it true that at the time of the death, the soldiers were without insurance on the basis of collective employee insurance, so they were not provided on that basis? Are members of the BiH Armed Forces insured today on this basis? Did families exercise their rights, by which I mean compensation, children's benefits, and others? Do they have any open court proceedings that are still under way on this matter, so the disputes they have? Did the Ministry provide legal and other assistance to the families, and in the end, did you visit them as a minister, so these two families? I know Minister Borovac, I think, was in Nevesinj visiting a family, I saw it somewhere, but here I am interested in whether you as a minister did it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17403	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister Pendeš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17404	I thank you for this question, and I must say that I did not accept that question at the Department of Defense. Partly I can answer the question, if you're satisfied I'll deliver in writing. On the other hand, as regards helping the families of our members of the Armed Forces, Minister Pendesh, along with the Joint Chief of Staff, took a number of activities, as well as visits to the families of our dead members of the Armed Forces, and I felt there was no need to publicly expose when I was helping someone because my faith does not allow it. But if you think that when you help someone over and over again to present it and take pictures, next time I'm gonna take a picture, I'm just gonna be in the media all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17405	Thank you very much. Commentary, MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17406	So, this is more catastrophic than what happened with fellow Bećirović. So, you don't need to be nervous, but you need to answer the question and you don't have to throw away the place you don't have the right to do it even though you're a minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17407	Please continue, don't let... others. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17408	So I've asked you a series of questions that were meant to show whether or not there are concerns about people who have lost their lives in a terrorist act as members of the Armed Forces, not whether you're taking pictures or not. You are, enough to say – yes, I have visited, quite enough. But it's not a key question, the key question here is whether these people at the time of death were insured by collective employee insurance, because there are rumors, and I assumed that you would answer that question because that's the point, that members of the Armed Forces don't have insurance from injuries at work or those insurance they all have paid, so the injuries on the way to work, the return from work, that's what children in schools have. So, members of the Armed Forces say they don't have it. And if you were to worry about this, as you don't care, you'd know that there's a lawsuit that people are trying to prosecute. be compensated. [[Employee is warned on time]] Which means that, say soldiers, there's a newly introduced silent rule that they don't get paid for insurance, but if someone breaks, say, a hand then sues the Armed Forces and thus gets A fee. [[Employee is warned on time]] And the fact that these families have not solved everything they should have done, that the ministry has not been able to help communicate between the Republika Srpska PIO in resolving administrative issues, is also true. And I'm looking for a detailed written answer to what I've asked, especially this part about whether members of the Armed Forces are insured or not. Since they say they're not me, I believe you're going to convince me, I hope so, because if they're not, then we have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17409	Thank you. Please take care of the weather. Dear representative Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17410	Thank you, Chairman. I welcome everyone in the O.R. My question is, in fact, a repeated question in several ways, addressed to the Council of Ministers. Twice I received a modified, modified question in the same frameworks from the Public Administration Reform Office and, of course, I never got what I was looking for, but in principle what their job description was and so on, and today I got one such answer. And the question is, the question concerns reviewing or reviewing the justification of the existence of the number of institutions that we have and additional for today and the working bodies, permanent working bodies, this time I asked how much of the funds on the annual level are allocated to these two segments? The working bodies are 62, I got an answer once, someone calculated that it was 30 million savings, and this time I asked in the light of some controversy about the Excise Act, so where are those savings, someone calculated that it was 30 million. It is not negligible, I ask – How much is spent, or is the essence of whether the Council of Ministers will ever reconsider, as they promised, as even Mr Ivanić promised at the beginning of the mandate, that the justification of the existence of these so many institutions will be reconsidered. From agriculture and I don't know what, from education as much as we could for a lot less money have the Ministry of Education. Well, that's the point, I don't know if anyone's prepared any answers, but I've also asked in writing for the first question of these two I've asked here.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17411	Thank you very much. 19 Dear Minister of Finance and Treasury of the Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17412	Say hello to everyone again. I got this question yesterday and I'm going to try to answer it, and quite normally to your request to deliver everything in writing as requested. It should be noted that all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are established by law, which means they could not be established without the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly as a legislative body of government. Also, the state budget is passed in the form of the law and the procedure for its adoption ends in the Parliamentary Assembly, which means that the amount of the budget for each institution by economic category has also been approved by Parliament. The budget law is publicly available, published in the Official Messenger, but is constantly on the Ministry of Finance and Treasury pages. The expenditure data shall also be provided for the adoption of the Parliamentary Assembly by submitting a report on the implementation of the budget for each fiscal year in accordance with the budget calendar. The distinguished representative Vajzović cited several institutions for which data and approved and spent funds were sought in the matter itself. In order not to quote these institutions for each of these institutions, the Ministry will prepare a reply in writing in the way you asked. With regard to issues relating to the separation of Council committees, boards of directors and supervisory boards, the Ministry also provided information to the Parliamentary Assembly on planned and spent funds on several occasions. In her own question, the MP also cited several bodies that were particularly distracted. For all the numbered bodies I've given a warrant, we'll prepare an answer in writing with exact financial indicators. When it comes to reviewing the justification of the existence of certain institutions and working bodies, it is a fact that there have been more initiatives focused, as you have said, on such activities in a reduction, in order to reduce the consumption of public funds, but once again, it is solely in Parliament's power to approve, by law and amendments to the law, both the formation and termination of the work of an institution. Especially both intriguing and what you said, and thank you for the opportunity to answer, that's the last part of the question that actually speaks about media inscriptions on the planned new employment of 800 civil servants. Namely, on the basis of a decision of a technical nature which aimed at establishing a quarter-level employment control, which we have made and which is an component of the Scriptures' intention as structural... according to the IMF, has acquired a completely wrong perception, and I will use this figure to clarify, both for your sake and for your public, what it is about for MPs and the public to be familiar with the real truth. The decision to limit employment at the quarterly level has been made in accordance with our programme of work of the Council of Ministers and the requirements of the International Monetary Fund, which are required as one of the conditions for implementing the extended arrangement. The budget law for 2017 approved the total number of persons employed by 23,058 persons, which is more than 206 employees compared to 2016. The increase in the approved number of employees relates to the position of a state prison whose employment is planned in the second half of this year. The decision is purely technical,... is a defined reduction of salary expenditure to 650 million in total and it defines the commitments undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should also be noted that because of the clarification of false perception, as a result of the continued fluctuation of personnel, for example in the service of the Armed Forces, police agencies, we have come from the data that speaks of the number of employees employed in places during the year The kind of people they're previously retired from. [[the speaker is warned on time]] For example. Only 20 of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces provides for the retirement of 229 people, but new people are received in those vacant places in accordance with the applicable legal arrangements. The same is true of police agencies where cadets who finish training and then become working relationships are accepted as retireds. So once again I say that, that the questions are concrete, the answer is asked in writing, and we're going to do it and deliver it exactly the way you asked. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17413	Thank you very much. Representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17414	Thank you, especially the Honorable Minister Bevanda. In fact, no one suspects that the agencies are legally established. However, in the meantime, if we have for 10 years the Public Administration Reform Office and we all swore that we would do something about it, we have, say, the Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency, 30 employees in three centres, Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo. So if we've passed legally, we can legally and examine the justification, and at the same time it's on cantons, at least in the Federation, education, so I'm actually asking for it, not to say how much further, agriculture, and yet the Advisory Council of such an agency, that was my goal, to review whether we need it all, to rationalize and to do something about it. We've sworn to reform, so here we go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17415	Thank you. I give the word to the honourable representative Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17416	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask a parliamentary question, since it is multilayerly why I have addressed the Council of Ministers, separately, identically, to the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the Ministry of Communications. My question is – Please provide me, according to the available data, the following: how many so far have been collected from existing excise duties on fuel? What is the total amount of the toll money collected? Total funds collected when registering vehicles intended for roads? Total budget allocations at all levels, municipalities, cantons, the Federation, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, intended for roads? Total credit funds for roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels, municipalities, cantons, Federation, Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as other funds from other sources, are donors, grants and all other types of supply of funds intended for road infrastructure? A brief explanation: Given that it insists on increasing fuel prices as the only prerequisite for building road infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina through an increase in excise duty by 15 fencing plus 21 add to cca 3 VAT fencing which creates a total amount of cca 18 fening, which creates an atmosphere in the public of endangering citizens' standards which, most importantly, is the only source from which the expected increase will be made, It is necessary that the same people know what has been gathered to this day, what has been done and what has been done to this day. [[Employee is warned on time]] There's some data that says they've been collected since '96. until 2017, the funds to be used could build 400 kilometers of highways. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17417	Thank you very much. Any answers? The Council of Ministers, the Honorable Finance and Treasury Minister, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17418	Since the issue of the esteemed representative Backović is complex and requires more participants and would not give, so we agreed, that I should try to give an answer. In fact, the question is complex, it takes a considerable time to analyse all the data requested as well as the competence of all the institutions that should be given and which should provide data to make up the overall response. I would like to remind you that the Department of Irregular Taxation was formed in 2004, and that the Excise Taxation Act was passed in 2009 and we immediately gave a warrant to the Irregular Taxation Authority to provide us with the required information on the amount of these revenues collected. How much money is invested in travel infrastructure from all levels of government we also need to get data from all levels of government. Mr. Jusko coordinates the unification of that part, uh, data. And what's the same content of your letter, your question about how many municipalities, counties, the unity of segregating funds from your own budget are not the data that we have, and we've asked for arrangements on these issues so that one comprehensive answer can come up with and deliver it, which will be on, and meet what you're looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17419	Thank you. Honorable representative, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17420	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I am aware that this cannot be answered in one day, fully aware, but I will take this opportunity, since we are going into a process like this, to help you a little. In 2001, INA's claim was 137m unpaid toll. That INA went out, a new one that's running today, and that 137 million has been forgotten. 60 million, same year, by Energopetrol, Energopetrol was destroyed and became INA, bought by this new INA. I'll just give you some information. Energopetrol company operating in Herzegovina as a separate firm, not as part of Energopoterol Sarajevo, the then established debt of the Tax Administration was over 70 million, no more, and the money was completely And so on. [[Employee is warned on time]] These are the means for the fuel roads. Only those three, I added that it was almost 300 million marks. That's how I have the papers because I was then on the Federal Parliament's committee to investigate these cases, and you were Mrs. Borovac with me back then in Parliament. No, you're looking at me and let me remind you. So we have 22 the situation in which the enormous resources are isolated, the realization is incredibly small. [[Employee is warned on time]] But we'll talk about it when we get the total data.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17421	Thank you, Mr. Backović. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on to the agenda. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. The agenda has been downloaded: Point 3. Proposal for a law supplementing the Administration Act – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-3044-1/16, of 06.01.2017. (second reading) Downloaded from the agenda at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Point 11. Annual report on the results of the Human Rights Institution's Human Rights Institution for BiH for 2016 – submitr: BiH Human Rights Institution, issue: 01-12-828/17, since 27.03.2017. Downloaded at the request of the reporting officer. Point 14. Report on the work of the Management Board of the Export and Credit Agency of BiH for 2016 – applicant: The Management Board of the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-946/17, dated 05.04.2017. Downloaded from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. At the request of the Commission for foreign affairs, the following points 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Educational and Scientific Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, material No: 01,02-05-2-831/17, dated 27.03.2017. Point 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Education Co-operation Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, material number: 01,02-05-2-999/17, dated 12.04.2017. Point 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Status and Functions Agreement of the International Commission for Missing Persons, material number: 01,02-05-2-1055/17, dated 20.04.2017. Point 28. Approval to cancel the Convention of the International underground work organisation (female), number 45 of 1935, material number: 01,02-05-2-1079/17, of 24.04.2017. In the agenda are added : Point 17. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to conduct procedures for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal, issue: 01,02-50-14-389-6,5/17, of 03.05.2017. Point 18. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-34-1188/17, of 09.05.2017. 23 Point 20. Information on the effects of the Agrokor crisis on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, material number: 01-50-19-1180/17, dated 08.05.2017. Points 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda now reads as follows: Point 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-957/17, dated 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. Point 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-958/17, dated 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. Point 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to the Single Account and distribution of revenue – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-959/17, of 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. The word came from a respected representative, Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17422	The Honorable Chairman. I therefore propose that a new agenda should be included in the agenda of today's session – Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the implementation of the adopted initiative in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is tasked with preparing and delivering in the parliamentary procedure the Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Constitution, which ensures the full and consistent implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Sejdić-Finc case. I remind you, at the 38th session of Parliament's House of Representatives, so on 30 November last year, he made such a decision. I also remind Parliament and the public that at the end of last year, a convincing majority of MPs here at the House of Representatives voted in favour of such a decision, and I especially remind that most of the MPs from both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities are in the majority. Knowing of such a decision by the HDZ House of Representatives has obviously abused or used the fact that the Council of Ministers has not been manifested and has not realised what was his obligation to Parliament and has launched a procedure in the House of Peoples regarding changes to BiH's electoral law. I think that fact needs to be made very clear today. It is our obligation to enforce the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg from the Prejudice of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci as well as the verdict in the case of Zornić, Pilav and Šlaka, which we also talked about at the session, not to bypass this House and to launch one of the political parties in a similar way in the House of Peoples of BiH. And, let us remind, regardless of the jurisdiction of both homes, it is clear that the House of Representatives has more weight than the House of Peoples, for the simple reason that it is directly elected by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also because of the fact that the BiH Presidency under the appropriate conditions can disband the House of Peoples, but cannot disband the House of Representatives. It is therefore quite logical that at this session or possibly at the next session of the House of Representatives, we finally get a reply from the Council of Ministers. I remind you, at the last session, I publicly asked Prime Minister Zvizdić, he was not at that House session, he has not answered in writing yet, but the House of Representatives must know what is going on with the 24th initiative voted so convincingly. So we don't get in a position to have this kind of abuse of this issue. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17423	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present in the hall. So, I would just like to ask my colleague Bećirević to explain how it is to comment in the House of Representatives on what is happening in the House of Peoples. First of all, I would like to explain what this means to abuse Parliament if it is to use a business opportunity. It is obvious, therefore, that he and his option, if the HDZ as a parliamentary party is in a position or is using the right of the Rules of Procedure to raise certain issues, initiatives, amendments to the law, that this has now become an abuse for him. So, as far as I can see, so he and his options are heading towards a solution to maybe ban some parties' work, maybe if they did, it would seem to be the best solution and then there would probably be no abuse. So this is completely incorrect what he was saying, but it's using a business opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17425	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17426	Well, as far as both homes' competences are concerned, I made it very clear that this competence regarding legal acts and others is clearly precise, but I also said other things relating to the election of the House of Representatives and in a way that the BiH Presidency can do, or that it can disband the House of Peoples and cannot represent a House. But it's not a subject. Mr Lovrinović, I have only called upon the convincing decision of this House, which we are members of, who have concluded and tasked this Council of Ministers and who had an obligation to deliver what Parliament asked for in early March this year. The Council of Ministers has not done so, and we haven't had for over two months, and for more than two months, the realization of Parliament's decision in this House, while the party that was against it in this House has abused it in a way that it has launched in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. And as for this proposal in the House of Nations, given that it didn't even come here, and we know how to pass and that it came, I would recommend to you as so-called holders of European values that you try to be bearers of European values, not that with such a law sent to the House of Nations you become bearers of South African values, but from the time of the blackest ethnic apartheid.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17427	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17428	Thank you for your love and respect for Mr. Denis Bećirović, therefore, I am immensely pleased and happy with his comments today, therefore, and the public will be the one he is alluding to. But, therefore, he didn't dematize, I don't know, so he's still giving out incorrect information that we've misused the position as a party, as a political option, to run certain initiatives, legal solutions or anything else. So we have this right by the Rules of Procedure and he's disabling the public, and I don't even know how psychic it is to get that bill through here, so unless it's just as he says it would be. So, it's not a subject of course today, but yes, yes, I'm asking you to warn him that he's not presenting incorrect data. We used business opportunities in another House that doesn't concern this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17429	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong quote, Mr. Bećirović, I think things are clear here, there is a proposal, there is a familiar attitude, come on please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17430	It is not clear to some that what I am talking about is not my personal matter, but this Parliament's matter. He made such a decision with a convincing majority, and I ask it to be realized. If the Council of Ministers realised what had been ordered or ordered by the House of Representatives, we wouldn't be talking at all about these things that you're proposing. And, unfortunately, you're there proposing some zones A, B, C, D, unwritten, but there's a zone d, which is actually a pure euphemism. It's an ethnic ghetto A, B, C, D and you're trying to do what in no way should be done in this country anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17431	Please. Of course, Mr. Bećirović...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17432	Therefore, the BiH Council of Ministers should finally give this Parliament an answer to what is the convincing decision of this Parliament, which has been entrusted by the Council of Ministers, and for that decision, I remind you, and was the majority for both BH Unitities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17433	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative of Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17434	Thank you, Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to welcome the members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues and, of course, the other guests present in the hall. In accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the SNSD Club proposes the adoption of a new agenda item. This would be the third item of the 45th session's agenda, and it reads – Decision on the discharge of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the post of the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, i.e. a member of the College of the House of Representatives. 26 On many occasions, we asked that this item of the agenda be before the messengers at almost 18 sessions, which was regular, which was urgent. We are not giving up on our basic political stance, nor are we giving up on our basic reasoning that is already known to the public, and are also known here to fellow Members, and I think that during the debate on our proposed agenda and fellow MPs will once again receive the content of our reasoning in the written version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17435	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17436	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome again my colleagues, my colleagues, all present in the O.R., the media. And, here, I want, because the chairman did not say that, to inform all those present that colleagues Ahmetović Sadik, Šepić Senad and I formed an independent club of MPs called the Independent Block. The public is well known that we have long advocated reforms and changes in behaviour and priorities within the party and the club in which we have acted, within the Party of Democratic Action. Obviously there is no capacity and hearing in the SDA to be current management...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17437	Do you have a proposal to change the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17438	So let me tell the public, because, here, you tell me what opportunity I can do, because you're on your way to the agenda right now, you're not allowed any space, and it's about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17439	So, it's not about the agenda, Mr. Sokolović, do you have a draft agenda? So, we'll notify the public on your request if you want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17440	Please, the chairman, so, after the parliamentary questions you immediately set out on the agenda, there was literally no other way to get to know the public. You, in my opinion, should have done that, you didn't, and I, here, found it appropriate to inform the public about the formation of an independent club called the Independent Block in this space of establishment, the definition of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17441	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17442	And I'm not finished, you all interrupted me in the middle... 27
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17443	Since you don't have a draft agenda, you can't talk about something that's not a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17444	I'm looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17445	You have a break for 15 minutes. Please, we're back to work, break time's up. A break was requested by the president of the Independent Block Club. Mr. Salko Sokolović has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, let the little atmosphere in Parliament calm down. I am still of the opinion, Mr. Chairman, that you should have informed the public about the formation of an independent club and of one, or let me say so when asking for a word. And here I want to meet the public that colleagues Ahmetović Sadik, Šepić Senad and I have formed an independent club of MPs called the Independent Block. I don't know what the problem is that both colleagues and colleagues in Parliament and the public learn this truth. The public knows that for a long time we have advocated reforms and changes in behaviour and priorities within the Party and the Club in which we have acted, it is the Party of Democratic Action. Obviously, there is no capacity and hearing in the Party of Democratic Action that current leadership is positively changing and accepting work and action for all people in this country, not just for selected and private tight groups. That is why we will continue to act in a new club called Independent Block, we will continue to fight for the fair principles we had and while we were at the SDA Club, which is a policy of equal opportunities for all, the rule of law in which national interests are respected and respected, and which we are not evenly developing throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in which we want to stop the emigration of our children, i.e. the youth of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call upon everyone on this path to be partners and according to agreement, to answer these questions we will also refer to the current authorities. Now there are three of us, soon this independent club will spread in the interest of everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is, therefore, a brief explanation of the reasons for forming an independent club called the Independent Block, and of the concrete things and of what we want to, in the coming period, not just inform the public, but to be active participants in repairing the situation in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17448	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 28 We move to a statement, so we have two suggestions. Mr Bećirović's proposal, Mr Beqirovic, so Parliament has made a decision that he has accepted the initiative and we have not received an answer from the Council of Ministers, can we get out of here today, would you be pleased if we were to urge the Council of Ministers to provide us with that information, and then we will discuss, uh, this. Tell me briefly, don't take your word for it, do you agree or disagree or should I put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17449	It's not a bad idea either, just to ask you for one detail, it means you're giving a deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17450	Please, so we're going to train the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver the Council of Ministers as soon as possible that information. That's the conclusion and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17451	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17452	It's okay. We move to a statement on Mr. Košarac's proposal and the SNSD club, on behalf of the SNSD Club. Prepare to vote on Mr. Košarac's proposal. 5 for, 31 against, 4 abstentions. So this proposal didn't get the necessary majority. In addition to this emergency to the BiH Council of Ministers for the Delivery of Information as soon as possible, I find that today's session agenda is as presented in this invitation you received today. Row 1 days. The adoption of the minutes of the 44th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, dated 10.03.2017. (first reading); 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-957/17, dated 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-958/17, dated 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to the Single Account and distribution of revenue – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-959/17, of 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget; 29 8. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-960/17, of 10.04.2017. (first reading), shortened procedure; 9. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No 01,02-02-4-566/17, of 22.02.2017; 10. Financial reports for the year which ended 31.12.2016 and Annual Report 2016 – submitr: Central Bank of BiH, issue: 01-50-19-899/17, of 03.04.2017; 11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2016 – applicant: State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, issue: 01,02-50-19-919/17, of 04.04.2017; 12. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2016 - applicant: Office for the Review of Appeals, No: 01,02-50-19-944/17, of 05.04.2017; 13. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2016 – applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-19-979/17, of 11/04.2017; 14. Material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2016 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Fourth consolidated report on the progress of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda, (d) Action Plan for the Implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda for all levels of government, issue: 01-06-940/17 of 05.04.2017. (Realisation of parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 28.10.2015).The Bible’s Viewpoint (Sambly), 2 / 15 Material of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH with the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, issue: 01-18-339/17, of 22.03.2017; 16. Rang-list of candidates for the Board of Directors of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service of the Order Others, material of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1-871/17, dated 30.03.2017; 17. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly home for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Office for the Review of Appeal, issue: 01,02-50-14-389-6,5/17, of 03.05.2017; 18. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-34-1188/17, of 09.05.2017; 19. First report on monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 – 2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015 - 2019. – applicant: Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 01,02-04-3019/16, dated 10.03.2017; 20. Information on the effects of the Agrokor crisis on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, material number: 01-50-19-1180/17, dated 08.05.2017; 30 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on international road transport of passengers and cargo, material No 01,02-05-2-967/17, dated 10.04.2017; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project Corridor 5c Continuing) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material No: 01,02-05-2-998/17, of 12.04.2017; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Luka Brcko) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material No: 01,02-05-2-1008/17, of 13.04.2017; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 2013, material number: 01,02-05-2-1076/17, as of 21 April 2017. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 44th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Representatives' House of Representatives You've all got a record. Do you have any objections to the record? I'm closing the debate. We're moving to two agendas, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17455	I thank the chairman. I referred a question to the BiH Statistics Agency three months ago, and, in accordance with my Rules of Procedure, I ask the College and the secretary to instruct the BiH Statistics Agency to deliver an answer to the sent question after three months.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17456	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Damir Arnaut has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17457	I thank the chairman. I received two answers to this session, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the same subject, but also show a completely diametric, opposite approach by the two ministries, and basically two ministers who operate, so the same topic. The Ministry of Civil Affairs, Mr. Adil Osmanović, provided an extremely high-quality response, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the same subject answered me, refused to answer another question, so – how many they sent an act on this subject to other entities, it is an agreement on social security with Australia, which is essential for more than 50,000 of our citizens in that country of all nationality. I also stress my marked dissatisfaction with the fact that today I have been prevented from getting a response here from Human Rights Minister Semihe Borovac about what she, as a competent minister, thinks about really fascist statements about who can or can't be Bošnjak. I don't want, Mr. Chairman, to wait 30 days for the answer to that question. It is incomprehensible for me that Minister Borovac, as competent human rights minister, has not found herself properly to be seen on those statements. And I now publicly urge her to say as Minister of Human Rights publicly, to explain to the public what she and her ministry think of such fascist phenomena in Bosnia and Herzegovina and our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17458	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17459	Just for a little while. I asked a question about the total transferred profits from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I don't understand how much time it takes, because all data exists in the Central Bank, and the competent institutions could easily access that data. Since you know that no transfers above, I will not mention the figures, cannot be achieved without the consent of the Ministry of Finance in the Federation and Republika Srpska, and cannot be done unless more than 32 Central Banks are recorded. Why do they not want to tell us and give us information? How much money has gone from this country. And I demand that my parliamentary question be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17460	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Mensura Beganović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17461	I thank the chairman. I welcome all present. This is an additional question which I received at last session was incomplete, today I received a complete answer to my questions about the purchase, i.e. the rental of Microsoft licenses for the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wouldn't discuss completeness, it's all right, but what I have to express my dissatisfaction is that maybe six, seven years ago when they could... different decisions regarding whether to buy or rent licenses and have a much smaller outflow of funds from the Budget of BiH, a decision was made to keep them rented. So we've already made this three-year contract by '19. In the year, we have 20 and a few million dollars hard contracts to rent licenses and so we will continue to repeat, spend money, and it could have been quite different that a correct and businessly justified decision was made some, I say six, seven years ago. It's my dissatisfaction with that solution, but this Ministry and this Ministry meeting doesn't have much influence on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17462	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative, Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17463	Thank you, Chairman. I got two answers. One of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in fact from the Public Administration Reform Office, which is not worth any comment, is not answered to the question, but is thus transferred to what they are dealing with. And I only need to comment briefly on the answer of the Directorate for indirect taxation. So, as I expected, reconstruction, construction, construction of border crossings is in the hands of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. I don't see that there are even consultations anywhere with border police that are particularly important, but here they are, they own both terminals and border crossings. It is about priorities, 22 border crossings have been trained since 83, they say their budget is not scheduled. So, they decide and I think it's high time, confirms it, goes to confirmation of the Governing Council where people sit which are the financial professions mostly, probably don't even know what the priorities are, I guess it's not in their job description as to what to say. In any case, I think it's high time to think about some kind of parliamentary surveillance of work or at least in this segment... the work of the Directorate for indirect taxation, which we don't have so far. Of course, the most human, the money that we don't even talk about is pouring in there. Thank you very much. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17464	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17465	Thank you. I had a question about public administration reform – the number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions. I have received this comparative data and I would only ask that the institutions supplement this, this response with an analysis of who, in which sectors and what jobs they have been specifically working on since 2014, so from the arrival of this new Council of Ministers of BiH to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17466	Thank you very much. This is how we ended this agenda point. We're going to the three-day stand, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, dated 10.03.2017. (first reading) The bill was submitted in procedure 10.03.2017. The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the conformity of the draft law with Article 105 in 13/03.2017. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Uniform Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system 09.05.2017. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications submitted an opinion on the Proposal for a Law on 04.05.2017. The Commission supported the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17468	I thank the chairman. Allow me to stress that I am now using my right and obligation to explain the proposal as a legislator of the Law, and I reserve the right to take part in the debate all in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications gave a positive opinion on this Law with 6 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The result of the vote,... such a large number of votes for, does not surprise me at all since it is a necessary change in the lives, health and property of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, this bill gives the right of championship or advantage in the transport of ambulances and fire trucks over vehicles 34 under escort or to simplify vehicles carrying officials of different levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, in the current law, these vehicles of the functionors are explicitly entitled to the championship and it has been standing since 2005. And as respected Minister Mektić told the media, it is probably then prescribed by a region country, without much thought, and should be changed. And I fully agree with Mr. Mektić. The SBB club agrees and the SBB is fully behind this bill. So, the extremely simple question and the shame is that we already spent one session, we were able to discuss this Law in another reading today, today we were able to adopt this Bill proposal at the House of Representatives and send it to the House of Peoples to correct this anomaly as soon as possible that vehicles of politicians under rotations have the right of championships over ambulances and fire trucks. I just want to point out that the practice, whatever it is, is irrelevant, it's important to put certain things in the bill itself to make it clear. Therefore, whether or not vehicles accompanied by an emergency vehicle or a fire vehicle would be necessary to make it a legal obligation. Of course, no one thinks a police officer would stop an ambulance and write a ticket to the driver, but what if there were an accident, what if a vehicle accompanied by a missing a well-intentioned ambulance, an ambulance, of course, which saves a life at that time, takes the right of the championship, but there is an accident, and the court would decide exclusively according to the law, at least so the courts should work, and in such a situation the ambulance driver would be guilty. And we as legislators are obliged to make it impossible for the ambulance driver to be guilty if he takes the right of the championship to some politician under rotation. And such situations are possible. I constantly, uh, come to Parliament every day mostly on this route at this intersection at the SCC and always on that route almost every morning I see vehicles under rotations that intersect the intersection and enter here into the premises, i.e. on the premises of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I see who gets out of those vehicles, it doesn't matter, I mean we all know, uh, who uses these privileges and who doesn't use them, but the point here is that I don't mind waiting for them to pass through, but we as legislators can't allow the situation to get the ambulance or the fire department to reconsider whether they miss or not to miss the vehicle of the politicians escorted. We should send them a message that we are standing by them, standing by to save lives, health and property of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and standing there in a way that they are an absolute priority, especially over vehicles accompanied by, or vehicles of politicians under rotation. So this is really a subject that we shouldn't specifically explain. It is clear, however, that emergency and fire vehicles should have the right to compete over escorted vehicles, however, as this usually happens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is someone's decision to unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily complicated, so today we have a first reading, this one, but in any case, there is really no need for an exaggeration. I'll just add that I have both the obligation and the human and the one I committed to at the Transport and Communications Commission's session last week that I will apologize publicly, apologize to Mr Nikola Lovrinović, Mr Šemsudina Mehmedović and Mr Staši Košarac for the comments I made in the effect and really revolutionized by the fact that at some point someone thought this could wait. Anyway, here, I apologize for my commitment at the Commission's session. As I have already stated, I have used my right to propose, and I reserve the right to take part in the discussion, that is, the debate. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17469	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17470	Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17471	I apologize, the correction of the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17472	I'm going to be the chairman for a very short time. I would not agree with my colleague Arnaut if this were a simple law, because if it were simple by now it would have been adopted by now, it would not have revolved around Parliament this much. Of course, as before, he'll have support but if the law were so simple, he wouldn't explain it for five minutes, because journalists wrote down in 30 seconds what they had on this Law. If every event presents itself picturesquely, this is, if today's current events were translated by a politician, let's say, he won't be angry, Bakir Izetbegović has a championship pass over some medical profession, let's say Sebija Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17473	Please, please, Mr. Magazinović, don't, I warn you, don't mention the names of people who aren't here and I can't answer. And don't do it the way you do it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17474	All right. It is a member of the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17475	It is an abuse of the position of a member of Parliament. Go ahead, move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17476	Okay, okay. So, I just want to say that Mr. Arnaut is now proposing that Mrs. Izetbegović has an advantage over Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17477	Please, Mr. Magazinović, continue the discussion, the correction of the wrong, what about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17478	Here, I'm done. So here in this law, therefore, which is going to be supported, there is one thing missing, and we are going to try to change it by amendments, which is that, besides all the police that are listed, there are missing, otherwise in the law, prison police. And it's been tried on several occasions to change, but I don't know why the Ministry didn't understand, and that's why it hasn't been done so far, because there's a problem when prisoners are driving from one to the other 36 prisons, so it's a very complex operation and it should be part of this law. Well, maybe this initiative of Mr. Arnaut is a good opportunity to solve that too, besides what, of course, makes sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17479	I ask the MPs not to abuse the pay phone, not to insult them as they speak, to keep an eye on what they say. The word has a respected representative Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17480	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of the truth, it should be said that Mr Arnaut and I were excused at the session of the Commission as he mentioned these three colleagues, with me, again for the sake of the truth, refusing to apologize because everything being said here is publicly said in common with common sense and reasonable. So there's no need for anyone to apologize to me in Parliament for anything he says, and I'm not going to apologize to anyone for what I said here, and I'm never going to say anything I don't mean here. If someone needed an apology, they needed the public and journalists of the Daily Avaz who passed on what they had passed on, and they conveyed the complete lie. They too need an apology, not to me, a colleague of Lovrinović or one of these four colleagues. But that's less important now. So, I'm staying with what I said at the last session when it comes to that finding and that relationship I have with Mr. Arnaut. And now I'm going back to the law. So we need to pass the law as soon as possible. At the Commission's session, the minister informed us that in the last 25 years in Canton of Sarajevo, so where it was most accompanied, in the city of Sarajevo, there has been no emergency situation involving vehicles under escort and ambulances. So there was no such situation. And I guess it's up to her to be, so as soon as this law is to be passed so that it doesn't happen after 25 years, because by law, something has to happen once, and even after 25 years, this should happen. What bothers me in this whole story, and right away, for the sake of the daily Avaz journalist, I'm really creeped out when the sirens of the vehicles are playing in my way and they're making me move aside, and then I always swear, but even worse than that, it's not about the vehicles being escorted, it's about the politicians, and it's also said that it's very important that the ambulance has an advantage over the politicians. Here, I'm a politician, I've never had any escorts, I've never had a car with those blinkers, I'm not if Bog has neither, and I'm a politician, and most of them here are politicians. Traveling to the Commission's session I listened to a radio where the topic was precisely this Law. And not to say what all the listeners were saying, but I'm just going to say one example. One listener says like this: I'm not a criminal, I'm not a thief, I'm not a bandit, I'm not a politician, I'm an honest man. With laws like this and with this kind of populist policy, we contribute to that very attitude. And I keep fighting that we don't have the same attitude towards everyone and that the public can't have against all people who deal with politics, I'm not going to tell politicians on purpose, the same attitude. And some colleagues are just trying to get us all into the same plane. Now I'm going back to the essence of the law. I have here the opinion of the Ministry of Transport and Relations of BiH. At the Commission session, the minister said he personally supported, and the text we received spoke the opposite, so I asked, and now I ask, what do these three sentences mean: – Taking care of the intention that the applicant wants to achieve, we believe that the proposal, that the subject of the bill should be regulated by another regulation in a way that clearly and unequivocally 37 regulations are prescribed which persons have the right to accompany the police with the use of special light and sound signs. The following sentence – In the case of the adoption of the bill... the text of the essence the Proposer wants to achieve wishes that... would not be fully realised. The following sentence – From all above, we believe that it is necessary to implement the existing provisions of the current Law correctly, in order to meet the requirements for more responsible public administration behaviour in Bosnia and Herzegovina towards citizens. So, not a single sentence in this explanation of the Ministry has the support of the Law, has the support of the idea, and I support the idea, and I think that ambulances should have an advantage over everything, especially when they drive there people who are in danger of life. Imagine that there is, there's a likelihood that politicians are misusing their position, and there's no way that an ambulance driver can use his position, so he's in a hurry to get some coffee and turn on the rotational lights. I say there's a lot of cases like that, but it can't, of course we can't in traffic know. The next thing you know, it's just amazing -- it's like a politician is deciding about it, and I'm repeating that I'm really creeping out on those vehicles under escort, and I think that's where a significant reduction is needed. Whether he goes through, he won't, or he decides the police who's at the head of the column whether he goes through some intersection or not, or maybe they'll challenge the police from the escort. And I could talk a lot more about the law itself. I said all of this not by saying no to the law, but by pointing to exactly what my colleague Magazinović was talking about, which is that this is not a simple question at all, as it wants to be presented here and in public, but it is a much more complex and complex issue. And not only are politicians from Bosnia and Herzegovina accompanied, but our guests, too, very often very safely interesting for many. And that's what we need to take care of. That is why this Law is quite complex, although it seems to be very simple. Of course, a reduction of those who have this right is essential. I am now asking myself and all of us, which is why one of the ministers from the Council of Ministers is certainly more interesting than one of us so that he has to have an escort. Of course, we've defined it by law and rule, but I'm saying what it's for. Therefore, a significant redistribution of the list of those who have the right to escort should be made clear as to what vehicles are accompanied, and what are vehicles with blinkers that do not have any escorts and which most often abuse legal regulations and this Transport Safety Act. I hope, at least I tried not to challenge the controversy and not to oppose the public who is absolutely for it, as well as myself, that ambulances have an advantage over politicians. Here, and I'm in favour of the ambulance, that fire wagon, that the police, or the court police,... no reason, all to have the advantage over the politicians. Of course, that's what politicians are looking at from a completely different position, so that's the concept of politicians is -- it's a thief, a criminal, a bandit, someone who's lying, someone who's messing around, someone who's brought this society into a state where today is and someone who's on call and responsible for everything, and also because ambulances haven't had a problem with an escort anywhere in 25 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17481	People, uh, just wait for Mr. Lovrinović, so I've used the Institute of Article 27 very often. The Rules of Procedure and I've been cutting the discussion in half, and I think I should do the same today, but I'm not going to do it alone, but I'm going to ask you if we're going to do it. Prepare to vote on my proposal. _________(?) 38 [[no microphone turned on]] Let me, let me, slowly, I have the right to do this and I'll suggest it. Prepare to vote on my proposal to cut the discussion in half. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17483	I won't plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17484	Well, you don't have to. So 18 for, 11 against, there is no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17485	We didn't, uh, plead just to let you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17486	So I'm giving up, I'm giving up on this proposal there won't be any need to plead, uh, continue, the discussion stays the way it is in the Rules of Procedure. The word has it, give me a monitor to see, the word has a esteemed representative Nikola Lovrinović, a correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I will refer to what my colleague Arnaut said in the opening statement and part of what Mr. Novaković is as chairman of the Committee of which I am a member. So, I would start by saying to him, and here I am for having, of course, an ambulance and a fire department advantage over everything and all the other politicians, I have nothing, no doubt, but I must, therefore, refer to myself in a way that also because of the reporter "Avaz“ as my colleague, who last time announced what they had announced, I did not ask my colleague Arnaut to apologize to me because he said it in an effect, because I, too, at that meeting in an affair, seemed to me, and I told him something, and I didn't ask him for it, but I asked him to say it, and he didn't say it, so, that the truth was then said. Namely, we, me, colleague Novaković, and all the ones he listed, were simply seeking the opinion of the ministry at the Committee's session, and we did not break the law as it was then said, because it was said that we were against it, and that we were only guilty of the death of that and that. So, in that sense, I asked for an apology because it was false. It's not, though he apologized as the river did, but he didn't say why. So, me and all these colleagues we didn't knock down, we got an opinion which unfortunately, and at the last session of the Committee, was not in favor of what he was saying, so even from the minister who was from his party, so who thought essentially, what counterpart Novaković said, that this is the moment to pass a new law and that this is not the time to regulate it. But here's what I'm gonna do about it. And I at the Committee for an apology that I received as a member of the Committee and a representative supported this bill, therefore, and I want the public to know today, and as my colleague said, so I had to get up and say, Novaković that the people would not think that we were still against the rights of people, therefore, who are in need, it was neither true nor true ever will be true. Thank you very much. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17488	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Aleksandra Pandurević, the correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17489	I thank the Honorable Chairman. cijeniti what my colleagues Novaković and Mr. Magazinović said, I must say that I was surprised to see the negative opinion of the Resorship Ministry in the Republika Srpska government on this proposal, and I asked the Minister of Resor, who is my neighbour and I see him every day, the man never has a police escort, has no vehicle accompanied, and then he explained to me that in Republika Srpska, here I am a well-known critic of the government, ministers have no right to accompany, there are only a few persons who have the right to accompany, these are the president of Republika Srpska, prime minister, president of the National Assembly. After last session when the lies were brought out in the media, there were also those media that were working professionally, television, and I realized why that was the case. Namely, the prominent traffic engineers from Republika Srpska appeared on one television to explain that this would require a very careful approach for reasons that we would not have more damage than benefit. Niko one argues that health-threatening should have an advantage, and this here is not disputed, I think, to no one, however, must make exceptions. It can be done in the amendment phase. We know that there are high-security risk faces in this country that pass our streets under escort. What if one of the terrorists takes an ambulance and threatens their safety in that way, executes a terrorist act. Or here today, it is known that I am not fond of the president of Republika Srpska, but he is threatened with terrible threats from one portal that are being arranged by members of the extremist Islamic movement. I'm sorry about Milorad Dodik. I really want to live a long life, and I don't want anyone in an ambulance tomorrow to carry out a terrorist act on him or anyone else in this country. So we need to approach very carefully so that we don't have more damage than benefits, because it's already happened to us once with some proposals from the same promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17490	Thank you. Correction of the false allegations, Mr. Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17491	Thank you. I will briefly just look back, this, Mr. Novaković, is not a negative image of politicians because of such initiatives as he said, but because there are no such initiatives anymore, and especially a negative image stems not from proposals like this, but rather from proposals to limit severances, but because such proposals fall among other things and the votes of two MPs, three MPs who spoke before me. The negative image of politicians is not because of the initiative that an ambulance has the advantage but because of those who are trying to disable these changes, and we'll see, the vote will show who it is, there's no need to go in here now, to hide something, to hide how who's going to vote, we'll know at the end of the day who they are. And what's the point of exposure, this, that they don't need these initiatives, that they're populist and that they create the image of politicians negative to the people, that we should hide it from the people. And you know what not only were citizens surprised that this existed in our law, most of my colleagues, here, politicians, were surprised that this anomaly existed in the law, that according to 40 existing vehicle laws accompanied by priority over ambulances and fire trucks. Watch out for something, we here, someone mentions the region, we, as Minister Mektić said, probably copied this from some country in the region without thinking about it, but what we are seeking, and that is the European Union. The opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, this Proposal for a Law, is in line with the practices of the Member States of the European Union, defined by the rules of credibility, i.e. the passing championship for ambulances and fire vehicles when they give light and sound signs in relation to all other vehicles in traffic. Therefore, the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration says that this proposal for a law is in line with the practices of the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, there is a need to stop every comparison, and there is a need to stop saying what is better and what is worse. If this is how the Member States of the European Union arranged it, then all we need to do is follow them, rather than refer to a country that we have possibly misrepresented at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17492	Thank you. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17493	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. From something that's very simple we're masters to make it very complicated, so in these discussions we're going to go more complicated of something that we need to simulate and solve quickly. It's true that this is much more complex and this isn't just one sentence, and it's never going to get rid of it, it's going to be the whole rule of law. Yes, in this country come very interesting, safely interesting persons, but even when they come they block the roads and set out other routes, corridors where those who need to work go, and it can't apply to this law, it's not that, it's not that. It is true that the law defines who has the right to accompany and so on in the Republic of Serbia's President, chairman of the National Assembly, I would like to put it precisely, the National Assembly, here are no ministers but you must tell me then that the mayor of Banja Luka when he comes towards Sarajevo has an escort, explain it to me. ____________ [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17498	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote, Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17499	I thank the chairman. My correction to the wrong quote refers to the discussion of a respected colleague, Backović. You see, my colleague Backović first, it is not true that the streets are always cleared when foreign delegations come, you remember the last arrival of Prime Minister Vučić, I met him in Lukavica, at a traffic light on the one hand he, on the other hand, functioned normally in Lukavica, went to a meeting at the 42 administrative center, so without emptying the streets, without anything. So it's one of those potentially dangerous situations. Secondly, the mayor of Banja Luka, what am I supposed to do when there isn't any, the colleagues from the SNSD went to lunch, so instead I have to defend their party colleague, he was the president of the National Assembly, and as president of the National Assembly he had a right to accompany. Now as mayor of Banja Luka, he has no right to do so. His personality profile, I'm surprised that you told me, because let's say to me, I don't think he's a turbo politician, but you never know people, it's also possible that I was in your place when I saw it, I would call 122 and ask Mr. Igor Radojičić to be punished and be sure that we will address, that our activists in Banja Luka will pay attention to whether he too is committing an abuse and inform the police about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17500	Thank you. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17501	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17502	And Saša, I'm sorry. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17503	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17504	Excuse Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17505	Dear colleagues, it is stated in the law that when particularly interesting persons come, i.e. foreign statesmen, etc., that this is provided. The fact that Lukavica has not been done is now the problem of the first body to be called for co-ordination, then the Republika Srpska MUP. It's not a problem for us and the legal solution, so they didn't do their job. We're looking for a legal solution and law enforcement. And when, as for Mr. Radojičić, to help you a little bit, his father was in my house Bog knows how many times, his father not him, you know he's from Montenegro from the coast and Bog knows how many times he's walked into my house. I didn't say this to him, but because he was on a date that he accompanied, it wasn't me, it was him. But that I understand why, you know, SNSD likes to act scary, that everyone's afraid of it, that it seems glamorous. You know, you're hungry and you're hungry in there, you're miserable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17506	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Saša Magazinović, and once again... Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17507	Nothing chairing, I will very briefly, do not refer to you, you did not run the initial part of the session. So, I'm interrupted in the exhibition because I mentioned members of the Izetbegović family, and okay, here are not people here we won't mention them, but let's also let the journalist Avaz not mention herself because she's not here and she can't answer, not to mention the mayor or let go, which is personally acceptable to me, that we speak normally as MPs, that, don't let the Izetbegović family be treated differently than everyone else. I think we should all be equal in this country, and we have sworn to the Constitution that says so. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17508	Thank you. I'll just comment very briefly. Each of you is invited to the Rules of Procedure, don't forget that there is a Codex. Whatever we do here as chairman or here I am right now, uh, it all depends on all of us individually, everyone talks to themselves about respecting the Rules of Procedure and how we behave according to our Code. I'd like to ask you, I feel like a lot of people haven't read it in a while, so just remember. Let's move on, Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17509	Thank you very much. It's not about correcting the wrong quote I just don't know, uh, where to sort out what I'm trying to say. According to the information I have on 12 May, a meeting of the Council of Ministers is scheduled to take place on the agenda of the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers' sitting on this Law. This practically means that we will conclude some phase of debate on the Law without the opinion of the Council of Ministers. If this is true, I would ask to be checked, so, is it really May 12th on the agenda of the Council of Ministers' Opinion on this Law, and if it is, then today's debate on this Law is, I'm afraid, premature and we would have to wait for the Council of Ministers' opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17510	Thank you. We're going back to the debate. Honourable representative Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17511	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At first, I would like to say that as a doctor and a humanist and as a person who has repeatedly been life-threatening because of the fact that due to the installed rotational lights of the low-level officials, so from the cantonal level, my life has been compromised, I am the initiative of the distinguished representative, Mr Arnaut, I fully support. I wish that, that we had respected the promise of the Minister of Transport and Communications which gave us the opportunity here publicly to discuss the Transport Safety Act, when I was a representative and several of these colleagues here made a series of remarks, he gave us a promise that the new text of the law would be found very quickly in the procedure. I know that Mr. Bosić remembers this discussion, I'm sorry to speak to you personally, we asked that the blood group be enrolled in the driver's license, I'm sure it's quite safe, and I'm sure 44 would say it would help save people's lives because it would make it much easier for medical teams on their activities in saving people's lives, but thanks is worth this request from Mr. Arnaut. I fully understand the majority of Mr. Novaković and Backović's discussion, so much of what I was going to say they said, but I'm saying it's not bad that maybe, here, someone from the often called party says what they think about this. I am personally as a representative threatened by the fact that 31 officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina have the right to physical and police protection, especially when it comes to the Council of Ministers. I think that we are the only country at this time, not in the region, but in Europe, in which they are absolutely implemented, this, the changes in the thesis, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina we have the executive power at all levels above the legislative authority. This does not mean, of course, that I support that MPs have the right to a police escort, Bog forbid, or to physical protection, and I am sorry that there are no representatives of the Council of Ministers here now, I understand, I do not want to speak of, of course, people who are not there, but I must say, it would be good to have them here at the session, it is not normal for me to be members of the BiH Presidency, both the prime ministers and the chairman' homes that anyone has the right to police escort, the rotation and the physical escort. The question arises who in Bosnia and Herzegovina protects from whom. I don't understand why the Minister of the Council of Ministers will be accompanied by a physical escort as he moves into the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, which he guards from, I don't understand. And I think, and I agree with my colleagues, that we have to define the fact that the public function bearers are, that's a very broad term, we didn't do it here, who could be, therefore, the users of light and sound signals, or the rotation of the car who might be. I can't at cantonal levels, and we're witnessing, we can't have ministers, we can't have premieres at cantonal levels, we're aware of the fact that this is happening at cantonal levels. And I don't agree with that. I think that it is clearly defined in the Law on Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina that a device for giving special light and sound signs should be installed and used only on vehicles with the right of the championship and it is clearly stated which vehicles with the right of the championship, that they relate to ambulances, fire trucks, police vehicles and judicial police, military vehicles and vehicles of the State Border Service, is also very questionable for me. I would like to say, again, that the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications are best here to answer us why the new text of the law has not yet come into parliamentary procedure, and it has been promised that this will happen with the very beginning of spring and we have actually accepted that text on behalf of it. And my proposal for a blood group and this proposal by Mr. Arnaut and many useful suggestions coming from respected colleagues had to be incorporated into such a text of the law. With indignation, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina have also commented on the fact that, even in public media, and I do not condemn, we must safeguard the independence of the media, but I do not condemn the opinion of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina because my life too has been very often threatened and threatened because of the fact that I have to move aside to pass important delegations, but it hurts me especially when it comes to delegations that do not have the right to sound signalling, or to light signalling. I propose to the Transport and Communications Commission to try to make either a regulation or a new text of the law or to help perhaps the Ministry of Transport and Communications to finally define who are the holders of public functions here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who has the right to such a kind of protection, and I think it would be good to say once again and ask our colleagues from the Council of Ministers, so from whom, why they need a physical escort and a police escort, why our House chairman doesn't have a police escort, walk quite as normally as I have seen, forgive me for mentioning you, but I don't see a reason why and once again I ask which one of whom he guards from. Especially when it comes to the Council of Ministers, I absolutely don't understand why the police escort, the use of rotations, and the very fact that the use of official cars in the Council of Ministers, I think it's quite controversial that even assistants can use official cars, and MPs don't, and I think it's a good 45 that we're not allowed to use official cars in cases that are not justified. And I totally agree with that and with the colleagues who said that, but finally to define themselves in the untouchable Council of Ministers who can use an official vehicle without talking about why, not going beyond the agenda, why buying new cars. But I would like the Transport and Communications Commission to take a significant, significant role, therefore, in defining this law, but I also support Mr Arnaut's proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17512	Thank you. Representative Fehim Škaljić, debate. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17513	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Ladies and gentlemen. It seems we've thought of ourselves as politicians, as the Council of Ministers thought he was older than the Parliamentary Assembly, so they ignore us. So where are the citizens? We are sitting in this respected House, the largest legislative body of the state thanks to voter votes, and I guess they deserve our focus and responsibility to them and, in that sense, that the advantage in every variant is citizens. Today, when we talk about a law that treats the question of whether someone who may be threatened or who is threatened, we place many technical and formal obstacles whether it will be or not. There's no dilemma, there's always the one who's threatened, not the one who can be threatened. And that is why, through this Law and the work that is ahead of us, we must show the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are changing, that we are not older than their needs and that we are beginning to mitigate this one negative opinion that we have separated ourselves from the people, that we are satisfied with ourselves and that we are not working for his interests. This small change in the Law actually shows that we are committed to the citizens and that we give them advantage over the advantages that are usurped in the previous procedure. I'm a representative of the citizens and I'm not interested in the text of the law, let's do the profession, I'm interested in the idea of the law and the objectives. The idea of this amendment and the objectives of this amendment are fully needed for me and fully supported. And whether it's going to cause some turbulence where the profession has to do part of its work, whether it's going to cause some need to define something through various regulations, it's a non-essential thing at this point, because it's a matter that the government has to do and it's a matter of power on the burden, and for the benefit of the citizens. And that's why we need to support this. Often here when we talk about what needs to be done and what we do formalize the matter, we place it in a place of technical responsibility and responsibility of the executive authority, not citizens. For me from this bench there is no advantage of the Council of Ministers over the advantage of citizens, for me here today there is no support from the Council of Ministers that ignores us and does not sit there. This is a Parliament session and there are no older jobs except to listen to those, older affairs of the executive authority, except to listen to those chosen by citizens to represent them in the country's legislative body. As long as we stand up like this, the citizens will be in the periphery and we will not achieve our role. So I appeal that on this one small legislative amendment we actually say that this respected House is committed to the needs of citizens and that the people who are always at risk and not the ones who can be potentially threatened have the advantage. There's a road to what colleagues have been talking about, which stands, but it's part of a process that needs to be done within what's right for the executives. We don't need to worry about how a sanctioner will be sanctioned, there's someone who's getting paid, we've formed him, right in front of us, sanctioning him if he doesn't work. These levers are in our hands and let's not make these arguments without adopting such a legal solution. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17514	Thank you. The word now has a respected representative, Mirsad Đonlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's amazing how little we need to show how much we're able to have a different approach, whether it's discussed some important detail or less important detail. Of course, as counterpart Škaljić said, here we heard when we discussed this one tiny detail that we practically send to the people what we think about us, or others, and what we think about if one of our citizens is in one crisis situation or critical situation. But before I say what I think about this bill, I want to say something about these discussions about public perceptions of thieves and criminals. Whoever recognizes himself among these so-called, defined politicians, may justice and defend himself, I do not see myself in such a group. So, what the people think, so I don't really believe that the people aren't even right, things have happened in this country. Now, let them justify themselves and explain to the people whether the thieves and criminals are the ones committed by some thief or some criminal act. I'm not the one, so it doesn't get me at all. On the contrary, I am daily with the people and with people from trams, buses, markets, cafes, sports events, and I am in a position to be exposed to public criticism however you like. And I must tell you that I feel very comfortable among these people, among the people, because in the end I have no right to be apart from the people in any way. So it doesn't hit me and let others worry about whether they're thieves or not. So I'm going back to the need to send every possible way to the people a clear and simple signal of what we think about who should have the advantage. These high risks or high-ranking visits that require special access and treatment, so it is known how it is, so in this city came, high-ranking people came to this country and went without a problem, the street is blocked, closed only for the traffic of those vehicles that come these people and problem solved. So it's not forbidden for these to happen in the future. I really want to say that the Club of the SBB strongly supports this proposal to amend laws that are minimal, very simple, but very significant. After all, you could hear it from the discussion of colleague Škaljić, but here, and I want to confirm it as president of the club, that it stands entirely behind this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17516	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, a long time ago from this place I call on myself and my fellow Members and fellow MPs to make the very priority of our actions in this House, uh, protecting the citizens of this country. I don't know how much it was, uh, acceptable or how many colleagues thought it was my true expression of 47 political attitudes, I guess it used to be in the direction of some politics, but believe me, I've never, ever dealt with that matter. And I'm glad, here today, that he spoke precisely of reason, that he spoke about this relationship between MPs and citizens, the very people who brought us here to these parliamentary benches. What it looks like today, and hopefully we'll change this law too, so it'll look a little different, I've tried that a little bit, through a few historical data to remind us. At the time of the Roman Empire, the great buildings represented the power of the rulers. Why? There were great buildings, and when the little man came, he was afraid of that power. In the days of Pharaoh, they were pyramids, and they were buildings beneath, when, with fear, they represented the common inhabitants of Egypt. Today's rulers, I think, this is how I wanted to paraphrasise it, the money, the super expensive limousine and the high speed. Now, let's get it back to our reality, to our reality, that if we are, and we're all inclined, or most of us tend to say, we've been fighting some one-brains that were in some time period, why doesn't Bosnia and Herzegovina rule today? I think that at this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina there is madness, so in this madness we have what we have today, that priority is given to those who do not have the right to do so, above, here in particular, the health of citizens, over cars, whether, or the means to prevent or protect citizens from a natural disaster at some point, etc., not to say where we care about the socially endangered, the concern of young people. So when these are priorities compared to whether someone who rules this country will arrive on time because he didn't leave on time, because we can all get there on time if we go on time. Apparently, some people don't have time for it, they don't have time. If we establish these standards, and here with this law we can go into this story, Bosnia and Herzegovina will become more, I would say, a human country, because it will give priority to citizens, care. And, here, for the newly formed Independent Block, there is no doubt that such a legal solution is supported, but I would like all of us MPs to react in a different way in a different way now to this Law that allows certain benefits to those I consider not to have. Well, we're here, as MPs, at risk. I feel like a terrorist at the moment I come to Parliament and when a man who does his job tells me – Mr. Sokolović You can't park a car here today because there's a clerk coming from some country environment, the European Union, etc. So we're 42 MPs here if we don't have the right to park a car in front of an institution that we've come to build a legislative, legislative framework in which this country will function, then we're either thieves or criminals, but here I am identifying myself with a terrorist because I'm going to jeopardize the life of someone who comes here. We, colleagues and fellow MPs, must set this story in a different way, restore our dignity to this Parliament, these people, and in such a way, uh, not to reduce those who come as friends in Bosnia and Herzegovina but, if nothing, to one plane in which, if we speak equally, then we can at least park the car so that we can get to that meeting in time, not to hide here around Parliament because someone thinks that there is an explosive in our car or something else. I don't know why I can't park. That's why these insinuations of me in a way that would make me, uh, a problem, a security problem at a given moment, etc. So I would ask all of us to support this Law, to go into this one story, this, which in a human way, I say, uh, we MPs are actually going to be recognized in a human way by those who chose us here. We all have some experience when these escorts are concerned, etc., I once entered the Rigol and I said I will never again, no matter who it is... but at some point they couldn't do anything to me because I have this parliamentary legitimacy and I will tell them that you are also obliged to me, I am at work, to ensure the safety of the road, but what this, conditionally speaking, ordinary people, citizens who go to work, to provide the funds that we and all those who receive from these budget funds can, after all, yes, that one, we have those receipts that we have. So, please, this legal solution is one human thing for me at this point that we shouldn't be discussing this much. I didn't want to answer the question at all because I thought the last time all the story was over, but here's the obvious 48 that, because of the individual's advance and the presentation of some of my views, which I think, that one, perhaps, might be able to disrupt the passing of this law, I answered. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17518	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. (first reading) On 23.03.2017, the legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and the Single Rule of Law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Bill's Proposal in 09.05.2017. The Commission found that the draft law complies with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system and accepted the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Since no one's answering my question, I'm closing the debate. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-957/17, of 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17521	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 49 As I voted against the principles of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, and therefore a set of laws following the proposed increase in excise duties on oil and petroleum products, I would like to state this discussion with reasons why the proposed laws are not acceptable. I will begin the discussion with a comment on the reasons set out by the promoters for the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Excise Act. In the first sentence, the proponent states that the reasons for the adoption are, above all, to provide additional funds for the construction of highways. However, there are no provisions in the text of the proposed amendments to the Law that provide additional means for the construction of highways anywhere. No member has been proposed to do so, but we only have oral statements from the representatives of the authorities that are not based on this proposal. Article 35 of the existing Act on Excises where it is determined that tolls of 15 fening per litre of road products and 10 fening for the construction of highways are only changed by these changes and additions in such a way that tolls are paid at 25 fening per litre of product, which are used for use for the construction of highways and for roads. Therefore, it is not about increasing the funds that will be used for the construction of highways and roads, but rather about abolishing the determined allocation between road and highway funds, i.e. the existing two values of 10 plus 15 fening in a unique value of 25 fening without a limited and certain distribution for roads and highways. For me, an amended member of 35 is not acceptable because I come from a region that has no direct benefit from building Corridor 5c. Although I strongly support the construction of this Corridor and all highways, but I believe that the better existing distribution of 15 road fencing and 10 highway fencing is because it gives me a greater guarantee that the more significant means will be aimed at reconstructing the highways in my area and building fast roads that will connect us with the rest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the highways that are being built. In line with the above, according to the above-mentioned amendment of Article 35, it is quite clear that the wrong quote of the promoter that I will quote – with this objective, this Law was primarily proposed with the purpose of increasing the toll as a dedicated revenue for highways and roads throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, a quote was completed. The toll does not increase by this Law, it remains the same, nor does it increase the amount of funds that will be used purposely for the construction of roads and highways. Therefore, unfounded claims and statements have been made that this Law provides additional resources for the construction of road infrastructure and new road-building investments as well as the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, although he is not a representative of the proposings, and it is understandable that he does not know the text and provisions of the proposed amendments. As far as toll is concerned, the amount of financial resources available is not changed. And what changes this law? Article 17 is amended in such a way as to increase the excise duties on oil and oil derivatives by 50% compared to the existing law, or an increase of 15 fenings and to introduce excise duties on biofuels and biotechnics of 45 fening. And why are the excises actually increasing? The applicant did not give a clear and unequivocal answer to this question, but the answer lies in the principles on which this proposal is based. However, in an accompanying act by the Council of Ministers, it is stated that this set of laws on the increase in excise duties is one of the obligations set out in the Scriptures of the intention addressed to the International Monetary Fund, but it is not explained why this and this obligation has been imposed and who has therefore agreed on it. The principles set out above may indicate why the proposing has been identified for this very solution. On the principle of simplicity of tax collection, the promoter considers this to be the simplest solution since the simplest way is to collect taxes from citizens, not thinking this means it for our citizens, not considering whether their existing social situation can bear a new burden and the accumulation of oil and oil derivatives, which will indirectly affect the price increase of basic life supplies. Under the current socio-economic situation of our country's citizens, this principle is unacceptable. On the basis of the principle of commitment for the promoter, it is important to provide a response to the level of revenue of the budget, not taking account of which these revenues come from, 50, or from which these revenues will be taken. It is important for the promoter to take new revenues from the poor citizens anyway and put it into the budget. And how our citizens will live with this, and how much impact will be on their insufficient home budgets, the promoter is not interested in it at all, nor has the proposer analysed it. This principle takes money from citizens to patch up budget gaps cannot be acceptable, and therefore, among other things, we refused to do so at a session of the Commission. The proposal is based on its proposal on the principle of fiscal sustainability and stability where it is important for it to maintain the necessary stability to fill the budget, which says budgets are unstable, that budgets are empty, spent and over-indebted. And here we come to the conditions set out by the International Monetary Fund – fiscal sustainability and stability of the budget in order to get new loans, but this fiscal sustainability and stability can be achieved, as we have committed ourselves to the Reform Agenda, by reducing public spending. The existing government has done nothing visible and recognizable in reducing public spending, but immediately turned to citizens' pockets because for them it is the simplest and most painless as they are, among other things, listed in this explanation. Why they should be tortured by public administration reform and by reducing current expenditures, when they can simply prescribe new burdens on citizens and ensure budgeting. This principle is not acceptable and therefore this set of laws must be rejected. The sixth principle on which these amendments are based and supplementing the Act on Excises by the Proposer is regency, i.e. it is important that this proposal does not distinguish between the rich and the poor with regard to tax burdens. This principle, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, is disastrous to you. Such indifference and insensitivity no one would expect of their authority. It is important that this proposal equally affects all citizens of this country whether they...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17522	I ask the representative to adhere to the agenda item. We have the opinion of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, and you are constantly talking about the reasons for the reasoning of the Law. Opinion is on the agenda, you can talk about the reasons for accepting or not accepting opinions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17523	Well, I'm just talking about why these principles were rejected at the Finance and Budget Committee, and I think I need to explain why we refused. And let me continue. So, the promoter on social sensitivity here has shown no sensitivity, it's important for him to take money from the citizens, patch up the budget holes, and that puts the point, which is not acceptable and because of that, we couldn't accept it. Then why are we surprised when citizens don't trust public officials, whether we're in legislative or executive power? Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, we cannot write such laws in which we do not specify an assessment of the impact of the law on the lives of our citizens. It is so superficially processed that all two-and-a-half pages of the A4 list explain the increase in tax obligations for the citizens of this country, without even stating the expected amount of revenue increases. This is too serious a law to be proposed in such an unserious and superficial way, and this is how you underestimate us MPs and our role in the legislative process. We are not just here to vote and all that is proposed is not our obligation to accept without discussion. analysis. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17524	Thank you, Mr. Emrić. 51 The word has the honourable representative Mirsad Mešić, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not happy and pleased that the announcement of my intervention, which is called a breach of the Rules of Procedure, seems to have won the coming of the motionary. So, here, I'm giving up on it, and I'm not at all happy that I guess that's why they came.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17526	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the discussion, distinguished representative Senad Šepić. Once again, I remind you of the Vice-President's warnings that we are discussing a negative opinion by the committee in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17527	The reason we came because we were in the Bureau session, we had our own points that we...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17528	We were just informed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers that they were absent because they had obligations at the BiH presidency session to inform Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17529	Mr. Chairman, you took half a minute from me and I'll make it up to you if I have to, I'll make it up to you. So this is one of the important issues that have been interpreted differently in public over the past, and I think this is now an opportunity to explain a little bit. I've been against one of these since the beginning. I support the Commission's negative opinion, these competent committees, and here's why I'm going to explain why. These current bh leaders and current authorities, but unfortunately and already tried, have been delegated to the opposition for years by the topics our public separates and argues – referendums, federalisation, resolutions, mega cantons, exclusive national electoral territories, grand coalitions. The people are being thrown...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17530	Does this have anything to do with the negative opinion of the Excise Act?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17531	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17532	Please, I'm warning you to focus on the agenda and not run a campaign here. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17533	Mr. Chairman
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17534	Discuss the agenda point, continue, continue the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17535	I suggest you relax, it's my right to say why I support negative opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17536	Don't have a dialogue with me, I'm here as chairman and I'm running this session and don't tell me what I'm going to do. Continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17537	Well, I'm telling you, too, don't tell me what my argument is about why I support the Commission's negative opinion. And you don't need to act like one, and I'm going to use my right to explain why what's done and how it's done so far isn't good. Why is this the current government? Because he is trying to hide the desperate results of his reckless economic policies and the resulting accumulation of social problems, which are the result of incompetence and ignorance for the implementation of necessary reforms by those who have come to a bad position in the Jaran, Poltronic, Family and Staff Policy. So far, economic policy has transformed Bosnia and Herzegovina into a society that depends on imports of goods, high and often bad loans from foreign and domestic banks, money that diaspora earns and sends to family and friends and high taxes, impositions and inspection penalties for an economy that has no familiarity and protection in politics. Tight groups close to party bosses and several families turned this country and turned this country into a parasite that only takes and never gives, or gives to those who have political ties and protection. Such a policy almost, such a policy only during 2015 and 2016 led to the import of nearly 14 billion more goods than our economy was capable of exporting. And while the current government's reach of a dispute over meeting the conditions for obtaining new loans from the IMF and the World Bank is about two billion marks, it has only in the last two years that citizens and businesses have paid a billion and a billion dollars each for returning old, foreign loans abroad. By the end of this term, the government is assessing that these authorities will have to repay at least two billion credit marks. In an unsettled situation, the system collapses and weak, honest and valuable people leave this country, investments bypass us, and only those with political ties and protection survive. In such a situation, it is clear who is the greatest loser. It is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all its peoples and citizens, and only close groups and families are won by gathering around party leaders, and the whole manipulation is wrapped in a cellophane of referendums, election units, resolutions and declarations. The question today that responsible people in this country are asking, so where will the money we take and what will remain in and from Bosnia and Herzegovina after they are taken from poor people and weakened businesses. The current very bad and unsustainable economic policy of the bh government comes down to the collection of this money through new and often worse loans abroad, which we have seen around so far, then from taxes, burdens and inspection penalties on the unprotected part of the b economy and citizens, and on the money citizens get from the diaspora, and according to the Central Bank, it's about two billion marks a year. So obviously the answer is why you never put 53 on the agenda of my initiative to talk about how we're gonna stop people from leaving this country. When you don't have any solutions or ideas, then what do you do? You're raising some new charges, making new excises, so you're hitting people's pockets in this country. You have no creativity, you have no knowledge, you have no idea, you have no idea, the only way to get these people here in Parliament into a situation that they actually need to be the ones to raise their hands in order to maintain such an incompetent and bad policy, such an incompetent and poor state leadership. What is important to make clear and loud and what I want to convince people in this country is that this situation is not unchangeable, that there is a way out of this policy of social and economic destruction and destruction and that the situation can and must be corrected. Serious economic analyses suggest that Bosnia and Herzegovina can be derived from poverty and hopelessness during the medium term. In order for this to happen, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs a better and clearer economic policy and a vision based on two objectives. The first is political stability, and the second is a group of capable, educated and valuable people who will also implement a vision of developed and rich, a vision of developed Bosnia and Herzegovina turning into reality. So we know that people who currently run the country don't know this and can't do it. Bosnia and Herzegovina can become a more efficient country with a much better standard, just as some other countries have become closer to the European Union. Since I see you're whispering a little bit, so as I speak, here, I'm going to offer some more, uh, a few things to conclude, to loosen you up for the chairman. So I have here an analysis of one, a little bit wider, what to do if we want to be serious, to actually offer an answer to how we're going to build roads, how we're going to protect people in this country, how we're actually going to actually do this negative policy which, as I just said, is the only thing that she knows when she seals a new loan to get that old one back and raise new excises to this nation from 10 fencing on fuel to 15, 20, 25, here are now 15 new fenings, without any answer that we're actually going to invest those funds where we need to invest and to get a new value from there to protect and develop this country. Finally, here's the part about these competitive things I'm going to skip, but I'm going to hand this over to our Council of Ministers and our entity governments. So, this proposal that we currently have, relating to these excise duties, to increase 0.15 excise duties on fuel, is planned to launch a new investment cycle in the area of road construction, which, according to current governments, would employ a new workforce. This would also give us new IMF credit funds for budget functioning. However, additional excise duties would immediately lead to a chain rise in prices of other products and services, which the government does not have any response that would only reduce consumption and demand, and slow down the economy. Investment spending would not have followed this decline in general population consumption, because it would have only occurred in the medium term, so after about two to three years, and because of political blockades and because of total non-compliance, due to complete mistrust in the current ones, among the current leaders who only know how to argue, therefore there is no capacity to make any of this, which is formally written in these proposals, to implement any of this. And from all of this, it follows that the basic economic policy of the Council of Ministers and these entity governments is an increase in burdens and additional duties. If anyone convinces me otherwise, then I'm willing to discuss it another way. As an MP who has been elected here to the BiH Parliament by the will of people and to protect the interests of the people of this country, therefore, I will ultimately protect the interests of the people of this country. We didn't promise them this kind of power, this kind of policy, so we didn't promise them that we were actually going to raise their taxes, loans, inspections, but we were telling them that we were going to raise their salaries and pensions, and so you see how this is going right now in this country. Therefore, I will not accept any further duties and burdens to which such authority washes its ignorance and its inadequacies. 54 I object to such a proposal because it serves only to maintain a system that harms the state, and it only brings good to party elites, their families and listeners. And that's why, here, this country needs a new policy. So far, I've done everything to make that new policy happen through the political party I've been in, she doesn't have that kind of capacity. So, this new policy we want to offer, here, through an independent bloc and we want to build it with all patriots, partners and civil society, academic community, religious communities, young and veterans, with all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina will certainly be something to show that from narrow, narrow policies, past, conflict and confrontations this country has the capacity to turn to the future and to offer solutions that will be good for all, not just for these narrow groups, for listeners and families, as this current political set is now mostly doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17538	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17539	I thank the chairman. There have been calls to the Rules of Procedure here, you see the situation is unclear, uh, the Rules of Procedure say that the motion for an act is required to attend the sessions at which the act is being discussed and here, at the very least, it is unclear whether the draft law we are considering or whether it is the Commission's opinion. In that case, the chairman of the Commission is here and then the Rules of Procedure is fulfilled, but that is not the point, it is not the form of a point here. The point here is, if you want to quote the Rules of Procedure, that the Council of Ministers, Article 180 (d), the Council of Ministers has the right and the obligation to intervene in the debates. This is the most important set of laws that we are considering in this mandate, and all interventions have, aboutly, come down to a drop-off without a microphone on the other side. Last or last time to the DF MPs, now about where someone was, go out for a microphone and explain, because what we are really unhappy with is the fact that the Council of Ministers has not done everything to send a message to the public about how important these laws are for the infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the economic sustainability of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the end and for the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, look at my colleagues complaining about what I absolutely do when I propose two changes, I don't know if it's an emergency advantage or if it's about lifting severances, so I'm going from one commission to another, I'm using various methods, some of them more or less like someone, but in the end, it goes, white bread goes away, commission fees are lifted, and we see here an extremely soft approach by the Council of Ministers, which is, so if it goes away, if it doesn't pass, and we're really extremely disappointed with that. We, as the Club of the SBB, are still extremely well behind this bill. And we'll vote for it, but we're disappointed. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17540	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17541	by joining the Council of Ministers and I believe that this may be one of the main reasons why...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17542	Thank you, Mr. Arnaut. 55 I give a break
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17543	Chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17544	Well, time's up, sir. I warned you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17545	Chairman, why didn't you warn Denis Zvizdić that he was throwing out of the bench, why didn't he call to discuss it? You have a selective approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17546	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17547	I ask you to... selective approach.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17548	I don't want to lead the controversy with you, please finish. I'm taking a break from an hour for lunch. We'll continue at 3:30. Since we have a quorum, we continue to work. Please take your seats. The debate was attended by distinguished representative Saša Magazinović, and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17550	The Honorable Chairman. We've already told this story, but three arguments that make us support negative opinion. First, because there are neutral road construction funds standing on the handles, here, for two and a half years, which are not spent because those who need to be agreed and implemented, or are already ending the tender do not want to do so and have recently annulled it. Secondly, because the Federation government denied the Council of Ministers in early March in a way that they clearly showed that these funds were not for road construction, but that in early March these funds would, therefore, have decided to use excise funds to repay debts to banks and publicly publish that decision, it was nothing hidden, people did it very transparently, only that the reasoning of this whole Act seriously questioned us, namely, who claim that this is not such an argument for parliamentary debate and for our decision. And the third thing, existing excise duties, I won't waste time telling you all the math, but citizens today pay taxes of 40, 35, 30 fencing depending on the type of fuel, so there are 15 toll fencings, 10 to build highways, mostly come, based on a billion liters that the figure is operated on, around 600 million marks are collected in Bosnia and Herzegovina annually. 56 Distribution, a colleague of Lovrinović, is 63% and almost 64% of the Federation, 32% of Republika Srpska, 3.5% of Brcko, which would mean that 383.5 million marks will come to the Federation on this basis. From that is divided, so something gets cantons, some municipalities, but the roads should go about 40% and 154 million, respectively. What the Federation and the Federation Highways receive from these 154 million shows that they only get part of these funds, and that 60 to 65 million marks never reach these companies. So, in order to talk seriously about excise duties at all, someone needs to come out and explain where 60 million of the projected funds disappear from existing company excises called Federation Autoways and Federation Roads. I don't have the information, unfortunately, for the Republic of Serbia but I have no doubt that he doesn't end all the money where he's supposed to be. So three arguments to support negative opinion, the first where the money is, the second neutral means of road construction and the third government of the Federation that explained that it would not spend this, for that purpose, but to repay debts. Thank you. And as far as I'm concerned, you could have cut the chair to five minutes, we didn't have to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17551	Thank you very much. Yes, I could have done that, I know it's so according to the Rules of Procedure, but from the session to the session we did it and then there was an objection, so I decided to ask you to share a little bit of responsibility don't let me wear it. The Rules of Procedure will continue to apply, but this is commendable, I mean, up to 5 minutes who can, who can discuss it for up to 5 minutes, that's good. The word has a respected representative, Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17552	Well, I'll probably be shorter than five minutes because...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17553	Well, that's even better then.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17554	I also said my position on the Finance and Budget Commission where I voted, of course, against this set, and now I call on the MPs who are in the room to support the Commission's opinion, negatively. I, I talked about some things, but here's how I see it today in the agenda also the prime minister explained to us, actually the chairman of the Council of Ministers, here we are, that these are the funds that will serve as collateral for the loans we've raised because they are no longer entity companies able to be in debt. As far as I can see, we still have today an agreement on the agenda concerning the Public Enterprise of the Federation and the EBRD, which was signed with regrets this year and where the Atoceste Federation is in debt for almost 80m euros. So someone isn't telling the truth whether they can borrow or can't borrow, whether this collateral is needed or not, whether this is, whether this is a collateral for assets that are already previously, I don't know what it means earlier now, but the loans that are provided, agreed and signed, or whether this is for future assets because companies are obviously in trouble, and which is not surprising how they wouldn't be if they were just being used for party employment and nothing else. But here, let's not get into it right now. Many here are also the wrong reasons for the adoption of this set of laws, as we have mentioned several times in the Commission, meaning this as regards biodiesel, biofuels to introduce 57 excises, although we have signed even that we will release excises and all charges with the European Energy Community in one of the agreements, and you mention that there is a problem because, as too much imports and enormous imports, and no one mentions control and that we still do not have the exact quality of fuel, means a document that speaks of the quality of fuel that can be sold in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So it's definitely not the right way to bring it, it's not the right time, four times we've shown that it can't go through, definitely despite all the paid texts, the coercion of various experts, experts who talk about how this won't have chain effects on citizens and on the consumption of citizens, on the budget of citizens. They will, we know that fuel participates in a lot of things both in transport and in production in anything. We also had a situation that I also mentioned on the Finance and Budget Commission that we have negative revenues, we have reduced VAT revenues in Republika Srpska in the first quarter of this year, and therefore the Republika Srpska government asked for a reaction from the Direct Taxation Authority where one analysis was made. It is also presented to the Republika Srpska government that reduced VAT payments are due to reduced purchasing power of citizens. So, another argument is that we don't owe more citizens in all Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only in Republika Srpska, but in all Bosnia and Herzegovina, because everyone is threatened with such impositions, because this is simply an imposition, the introduction of a new burden for citizens who will not contribute to any investment, infrastructure swing in the Federation or Republika Srpska, because we have seen that in three years, no one is able to do a single kilometer of highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17555	Thank you very much. The word has a distinguished representative Salko Sokolović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17556	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the topic, so, which we've talked about a lot of times, but here I would use the presence of the Prime Minister's chairman to ask a few questions in a reasonable way, and I know that I'm going to get an answer, whether it's going to be satisfactory and that it's going to open up further discussions here we'll see. So, if you take the Commission's opinion, you will see that the qualification that makes this negative opinion a reason for adoption of the bill would have negative effects on the economy and standards of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's hard to defend one of these opinions considering, here's what colleagues used to talk about, reaching Mr. Bećirović, that the price of fuel is calculated we know in every product in Bosnia and Herzegovina and so we go from transport and we go on, uh, and we'll find fuel in that one chain, chain, and it's always the end consumer that's going to carry everything that's increased as a cost, and out of the pockets of citizens are going to take those funds. Here, it's visible twice, once it means when you buy fuel, twice through the purchase of product prices, etc. And there is a difficult socio-economic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think this would further undermine citizens' standards. However, I am interested in two things here – which is why the Council of Ministers did not give a concrete answer which, behold, would, as MPs in this Parliamentary Assembly, in a way, relax or think in a different way. I will remind all of us that the excise on fuel was introduced in 2009, six months after the introduction of the excise duty the first who felt the increase in fuel prices were farmers and then the then Council of Ministers opened the debate, started talking to farmers and they were promised blue diesel. So that's what the Council of Ministers promised blue diesel, so there's a new Council of Ministers, uh, six and a half years from the moment of promise to this day. Now, I am interested alive – what is the essential reason why Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be a blue diesel, and it is present in the countries of the region, in the European Union? Because that way, when the region and the European Union have a blue diesel as cheaper fuel in the production of agricultural producers, we automatically make our agricultural production uncompetitive on the European market. So, I would like someone to convince me of the reason why this is not possible in Bosnia and Herzegovina and why, here is why this legal project couldn't assume it and say -- here, a part of the funds will be allocated or, we'll introduce it, the most accurate, blue diesel in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that way we'll protect agricultural production. So, agricultural production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, uh, there are a lot of employees, a lot of families living off agricultural production. If we are sitting in these parliamentary benches, if we are in any, in any legislative body, any executive authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we must feel that the problem of agriculture is very significant and then respond in such a way and provide farmers with competition, here is the simplest way on the market, so, regions, the European Union, etc. So that's the question. And the second question is what Mr. Bećirović was talking about now, this one. We are talking about the way to the European Union, this, and here we are in violation of the European Union's directives. How? So the European Union Directive, I have written here to be precise, number 2003/96 aims to promote the use of biofuels in a way that allows Member States of the European Union to release or reduce excise duties on biofuels. Since the Council of Ministers adopted the Action Plan for the Use of Renewable Energy in Bosnia and Herzegovina on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, we have committed ourselves to the application of this Directive. We have, so we have a biofuel 0 excise duty, and here we are, through this legal project, instead of respecting the Directive and saying it's okay, we're further imposing it, and I think, in a very bad way, it explains it in the Ministry. So, in 2013, there were 500 000 liters, in 2014, two million and something, in 2015, ten million and something, that's smuggling, and now we're gonna stop that smuggling in a way that we're gonna increase the price, put an excise charge and actually increase the price of that biofuel, and there's some people who get paid to be active on the ground, to do business, to have inspection supervision present, etc. So these two things my mind can't understand, which is why we can't have blue diesel, and that's why, here we're specifically breaking, uh, the European Union Directive and we're full of mouths entering the European Union. Here I am on this part of the stop. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17557	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Zaim Backović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17558	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. On this topic I've already talked about here and I'm just going to repeat myself, so I don't take too much time to try short and taxing. How is it possible that the flow of funds that have been collected so far is not known, how is it possible that there are no reports or financial indicators of the current effects of what we are in the overall fiscal policy, and when it comes to collecting road construction funds to stop that, like those who need to decide, they can know where these funds are, and we are asked to go into something that I don't know what effects they're going to have? Why? Because the general explanation of the Law does not give effect, because it is a credit effect. How many credits have been taken for road construction so far, how much money, how many miles is that? I was lucky or unhappy to sit with people who deal with the economy, deal with finance, so they sat me down on 59 pencils, because I don't do it, that the total amount of money collected is 400 km of highway. How many of us have built highways, where is that money, where did that money end? So, if it's 400km, we should've had Bosnia and Herzegovina covered by highways a long time ago. Only two cities, I mentioned, Banja Luka and Sarajevo have registered over 300,000 private motor vehicles. When you take that paper when you register a car there, it says something, the items that you pay, and you add to pay for it every year, you take how much of the money that's meant for the roads. And then I took the entity's budgets and analyzed them a little bit, so there I looked at the items that were taken out, taken out through the transport and communications ministries, so I added it up. And then I went to the lowest level and I took a few, a sample of several municipalities in Republika Srpska and the Federation, that they don't think I'm just looking at one thing, this is Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is wanted for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and there's scary numbers for the roads, from the local to the highest level. How is it possible that we don't know how much of this money has really been spent? I asked the parliamentary question and how many donations were donated, everyone told me - you're crazy that's not true. Now let me tell you, look what Malaysia donated to Tuzla Canton, which time and which it paid, look what the Kingdom of Norway donated and what roads and reconstruction it paid for, look at the Kingdom of Holland, all these papers exist. So it wasn't our funds that were given, but it was paid by some and so on incessantly. What's this really about? It's a whole other thing, getting into the citizens' pocket, making it a citizen's sacrifice, that a citizen endures absolutely everything, that the political elite can't stand anything and doesn't answer for anything. Because just explain to me, if it's possible to explain, they say there's so much fuel consumption, so we're not going to enter with today's figure how much fencing per liter that's being allocated to road construction today, but let's take it from '96. To this day there should be an average of 30 fening. 30 fencing times that many, times that number of years, you'll get almost six billion KM. Where's the six billion that's been taken care of? When you negotiate with someone like the International Monetary Fund then before something is signed, I suggest that we go the other way, not on behalf of, in and on behalf of, etc., for someone to sign, and then bring us into a situation that we actually need to verify someone's signature. We are not ratifying any agreement here, we are bringing here a new law imposing on the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What we're sitting here and now we're talking, and it's going to collect, because energy is equal to energy consumption, and energy is coming from somewhere. So if this lighting comes in and it's fuel-related, it's tied up, if I have to draw it right now as it's tied up, it's all causal and consequent, and that bread that's going to be delivered to the citizens has so much energy in it, and that energy costs it. So it would be desirable, so this is what we could have already had for these two months, the total amount of funds collected and spent where they went, who spent them. I said two things on the parliamentary issue, 137 million taxes found that INA didn't pay, that INA was missing, a new one was formed, no one mentioned that 137 million. Has anyone forgotten the Energopetrol affair and... Energy for 60 million for the same toll, and no one mentions it anymore. And not to think that there is no such thing in Republika Srpska, but not to be me who, you can say that when it comes to taxes on fuel that the companies have disappeared and the new ones are at the same pumps, they're gone, they're gone. So we still need to be more correct towards those who have given us confidence, and we need to be more correct and be more correct about what you and I have raised our hands for here in order to act as chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Ines who have been brought in, so that it is indisputable to people, counselors for this and these professions, counselor for those and those professions, in fact, that you give me a chance to catch those who have never dealt with it, but they have no dots. Thank you. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17559	Thank you. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm limiting the discussion to five minutes, and I'm asking the two debaters who are left behind, it's not correct at this point of order to accept that, if not, then we'll be valid from the next item of the agenda. Correction of the wrong allegation, Damir Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17560	Well, I'd just like to add to Mr Backović's basics, as it must be pointed out here that it's a double collection, it's not just excise duties and excise duties, nobody here mentions an increase in income based on an increased VAT. So that's where no one did the assessment, we didn't get any estimates of the Urava for indirect taxation, we got some data so by accident that it was planned on an annual level to charge the budget by 100 million KM through an increase in excise duties, excise duties. So you have two collections practically, what we're introducing today, and an increased rate of VAT inflows, based on VAT, so no one's saying what budget that money is going to be used for. Of course, we all know that it goes into entity budgets and to patch up budget holes, but that's what it's quiet about. So, the citizens with this will have two gatherings, a collection under this Act and an increase in what will be set out for VAT through increased prices, and that is, besides these analyses that we don't have for excises, another 100 million a year and more at the Directorate for indirect taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17561	Okay. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17562	I thank the chairman. This is very interesting, Mr. Bosić earlier did not allow a consensus when Mr. Džaferović suggested that the debate be limited, and now he voted the opposite, or limited the debate. We've both been in and out of excise duty, and you seem to be following the practice of your colleagues at the Council of Ministers now they're a little bit for excises, so they're a little against, so they're a little restrained, so wait for the election to pass and, uh, then we don't know where we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17563	All right, you just turn to this replica, let's see who it is, what it's all about and all that. Here you go, Mr. Damir. Here you go. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17564	And it could, it could be half an hour... 61
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17565	Please don't, don't, don't, don't get serious don't throw away. Mr. Arnaut, here's what's wrong with the quote, whose fault is allegation, what's the real allegation to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17566	You know what, Mr. Džaferović, I don't really know what your work and you and your Council of Ministers would do to me here. Of these five, half of your club that voted for excises, no one has ever reported to defend excises. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, whose work is too high, has been delivered, and I agree with the opposition, a very poor explanation, a very short explanation, but this is the opposition, it is their job. Their job is to attack what the chairman of the Council of Ministers delivers, it is a shame that he made it easier for them. And then instead of making it easier for me, let me defend this, let me do your job, the job of your Council of Ministers Chairman, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is going to get into a very bad economic situation, and we're going to have a stalemate in road construction, and that's going to be because of these so bad explanations, and that's because none of these five, half of your club, you've put 10 in coalition capacity, and half of them just voted for excises and then you're just limiting yourself like this, you're grasping some of the regulations of the Rules of Procedures that can be interpreted anyway. Really, uh, I don't think the seriousness of this situation allowed and especially because you did it when Mr. Bosić asked you not to remind me how his ministers voted and how he voted. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17567	Okay. Thank you very much. And now the esteemed representative Zaim Backović, correcting the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17568	Mr. Bećirović, thank you for correcting the correction of the wrong quote, and I will now correct what you have corrected. 15+3 fening without any precise explanation where, and in what way it is directed, who, how, and how will control it. And I've done it already, this isn't the first time, this is what I keep saying. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, it just means correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17570	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17571	I thank the chairman. If some of you here knew what politics is, when any decision is made and under what circumstances, but unfortunately, maybe... doesn't allow it to be seen. First of all, Mr. Bosić does not have his 62 ministers, the ministers have the Serbian Democratic Party and the Party of Democratic Progress. The parties, we are not a private party, we are a democratic party and the party's authorities propose who will be ministers, not even Mr Bosić at the time when he was the SDS president, the minister did not choose him, nor did he propose, but rather the party, so function the democratic parties. As for the excise, yes, our ministers voted last year, they voted because that's what the party told them and we would vote because it wasn't the same timing last year because the IMF agreed to the blue diesel and we were ready – blue diesel, no problem, our ministers will support it, we will act amendment here, we will get blue diesel. Last year, not yet, entity budgets for this year were not adopted, so there was room to help the economy carry the burden of excise duties through entity budgets. You know, you have a whole package, so let's not pass the law and nothing, but that law follows the measures. Last October, the law could follow measures, this year the law cannot follow the appropriate measures in entity budgets. I don't, I appreciate that since the SBB cares about highways, but my people aren't all reforming what and from the Reform Agenda just increasing taxes, there are other reforms. Do you know that we have two billion undrawn funds to pay for the penalty, do you know, here's what I'm asking? I clearly care about someone to Corridor 5c here, and on this side I have an understanding, but what will the Republika Srpska highway Banja Luka – Split, benefiting from this by the agricultural producer in Semberia? Or here we have, we've made a highway, I want an analysis, we've made a highway Doboj – the Prnjavor which passes 1,200 vehicles, which is completely invaluable, and the needs could be calmed by a fast road. We're asked here to support something, and we don't know what or why we support it. And I'll remind you when we talk about excise duties and how it's not going to waste money on purpose, and I end up with this, I remember very well Mr. Goran Salihović's former chief prosecutor's statement. Last year from the summer when he said that he had just received a case against the carrier from international institutions [[Embassy is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17572	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17573	The highest functions in Republika Srpska due to abuse of funds.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17574	Thank you, Mrs. Pandurević. It's already been a minute, 11, 12 seconds. Please take care of the weather. Dear representative, deputy chairman, Mr. Mladen Bosić, is correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17575	I'm a little embarrassed that I have to keep replicating Mr. Arnaut who uses every opportunity to call by his name personally, to find some reason to heat up such a conflict. And, right, Mr. Arnaut, I've noticed that you are the most reputable defender to introduce excise on fuel. So there is neither in the Council of Ministers nor in Parliament anyone who does it with a heart and does it as heartily as you do it. And now the question is why might it be that you're so interested in introducing excises when you know that it's a measure that drags your hand into the pockets of citizens that you're so keenly fighting in cases like this. Traffic championships and many other cases where you successfully win political points. And I realized, the director of the Federation Highway is your man, and that's why you treat this issue that way. I understand that, 63 because people and politics here have learned to grab where there's money. And now that there's no more money, people need to get their hands in the pocket to make roads, the guy from Banja Luka through the Mliništa to Split needs to pay for someone from Bijeljina, Brcko or Zvornik, or I don't know where, so someone, someone, someone, someone, a company, works and settles through that job. That's why we won't vote for excises at all. So, even if we return the blue diesel, we won't vote and we won't support it. It's only after this debate that we know exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17576	Okay, we're making progress, obviously. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17577	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. There were these dilemmas in which to discuss today, given that in the Opinion on the Proposal of the Law on the Excises of this parliamentary Commission stands – adoption of the bill would have negative effects on the economy and the standard of citizens. So that's what the Commission said, our parliamentary commission. I agree with them here. Given that some of you are, in a word, not explaining why they will support this Commission opinion, I will only say a few sentences for this reason. The physibilities of the study for Corridor 5c was done 12 years ago, and then the evaluation of those who were doing the First Judge was that the Corridor cost about $5 billion, marks. Excises on fuel and tolls were introduced nine years ago and according to information, so our Statistics Agency is said to have collected about 6.5 billion marks in that period of nine years. That's why, I'm not going to say that the cost of five billion was spent 6.5 billion and we didn't do one third of the corridors. Some will tell me that it's spent on other roads, but here's a good thing if we had one piece of information about how and for what purposes we've spent what we've been taking from citizens for the last nine years. In the last few days, I have been personally, and most colleagues who believe the same or the same opinion about what I'm talking about have been pressured by various, both domestic and international factors to change our opinion. Even from the means of public information, we are bombarded every day by different economic experts that, if we introduce excises, Bosnia and Herzegovina will flourish. I would ask all those who have come forward in the last 15 days to sign themselves as professors, economic doctors and economic experts, to gather together in one place and bring us a good development plan for this country, not to put our hands in the pockets of the poor citizens in our country anyway. I believe there are those, but they're independent and they're professors and experts who, in principle, have no influence on any policy or any company that gets these jobs. Since the start of policy practice I have always been for what Bosnia and Herzegovina has and declared, which is that its main foreign policy objective is the European Union, but now I am setting myself a dilemma, since they tell us that if we don't adopt this, there is no more European Union, is that what we want to introduce poor citizens into the European Union or what I understand that by joining the European Union, by joining European funds we should have richer citizens in our country and more investment and more jobs in our country. So now I'm in a dilemma, maybe I don't understand, but I'm not looking for an explanation of these economic experts who convince me that the adoption of these excise duties is good and that Bosnia and Herzegovina will flourish from Monday. So I asked another question -- why don't we spend that money we already have, which is already on the accounts, and why it's blocked, and why don't we do the shares that 64 is provided for. I contacted, out of my curiosity and work that I do, and for what reason I should vote here, many in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially those who do this job more, and all of us generally say there are other ways to finance Corridor 5c. A good part of them tells me there's only one difference, if we impose a new charge on our country's citizens, if we deprive them more and take them. Then some will have the right to spread tenders, and in principle they know who will work and who will distribute the money. [[Employee is warned on time]] If we approach in a different way, and these are concessions and other ways, there is no such thing. One of my proposals for road builders and Corridor 5c – let's form one fund for this in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this fund we provide money, and in doing so We don't put our hands in the pockets of our country's citizens. [[Employee is warned on time]] I will support this negative report, the Commission's opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17578	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković is a respected representative, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17579	I thank the chairman. After all these discussions, I really don't see any reason to even discuss it, because look, the one thing we're talking about here is things that don't really talk... we're talking about excises. They're not the only source of excise duty, and the only one in excise duties is not only toll, excises are not only on oil, but we have other products. So when we talk about VAT on excises, so he goes to the Single Account and goes, the Law on the distribution of public revenues is being allocated. There's no reason to discuss it like that when it has everything defined in laws and to respect such laws. What the proposal is, this, the Council of Ministers, that is, as I understand it, the entity prime minister is in fact that excise duties are given and that they are real promoters, and the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance is the only promoter who is... What I resent to the Council of Ministers, both the chairman and the minister, which have not done an adequate analysis of all of this and delivered and released to the public and discussed it more, so we would not come into the situation to discuss this three times in an urgent procedure, that is, for the fourth time, the one, in a shortened procedure. It's on one side. On the other hand, I think it was very important here, and in this material that we got, to note that, to predict income as much as I calculated about 370 million. That 370 million is about to pay off, uh, further road construction and everything. What was needed here, so further road construction, but also an annuity that would have reached on these loans. What was needed here? It was necessary to do a post-benefit analysis in terms of investing 370 million in a year as much as income is expected, which is what we get out of it. Well, it's clear we have to win. If I want a trip to Europe, the road to Europe goes right through Corridor 5c, because it is the corridor in the European Union's strategy, the European Union's Transport Strategy. So we have to go that way. It's a clear guideline in which direction we should go. I'm not an advocate or anyone's patron, so we understand each other right now, but common sense imposes something else, in order to get something I have to and have, I have to give. So in order to gain the employment of 42 activities, business activities on Corridor 5c, on such large public works, I must invest. We don't have money because nobody makes a road out of their own battery, out of their own resources. There's no state that did it. We have examples of both Croatia and neighbouring countries and Serbia that have taken as much as 3 billion revolvings. And now we're plowing something here... of course we need to discuss, of course, 65 of course we need to look at both the good and the bad side. So 42 business entities will be employed, or 42 activities, will be built and domestic companies will be employed, a large number of workers will be employed, jobs will be opened on multiple shares, so... highways, i.e. highways on multiple shares, show that Bosnia and Herzegovina can do so. This is very important at the moment when we expect positive signals, i.e. when we have positive signals from the European Union. No Niko, therefore, has made the highway out of their own battery and I note it for the second time. So no one has their own resources, not even those who have huge budgets, or much bigger budgets. As far as agriculture is concerned, it is clear that since 2009 people have not, and that they are the biggest losers in this. If... we get excises, it goes to the Unique Account,... that excises are one of the most flexible taxes, on excises, so, goes the VAT, a good colleague noticed it, but it's also clear where the VAT goes. He's going to the Single Account. So this 2 comma, it seems to me 2.55 fening, at 15 fening 17% that 2.55, that 2.55 can serve exactly for agriculture and in one and the other entities for incentive and blue diesel, and to return what was promised to farmers in the coming years. So we have a whole one... If I were a finance minister, I'd probably suggest the same thing, because it's the pickiest, fastest and most relaxed. There are, of course, other methods, there are methods public-private partnerships, there are methods, uh, and own resources, and concessions, etc., etc. [[Employee is warned on time]] The tools in the economy, or finance, only need to be known at which point to apply. At this moment Just one more second, you've been a little distracted, but it doesn't matter, so right now I think this is a good option, that we should go this way, and that, uh, the SBB Club is not going to support this position of the Commission. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17580	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So here, almost 20 years later, a large part of the colleagues remembered, therefore, that the elections to go European and Euro-Atlantic are now a burden, now that is difficult. And now, therefore, most of them here who have discussed before me are certainly not ready to raise their hands... a strategy that depends on us to get that free money. And maybe it's easier for us to bring these strategies, but here we don't have them, the environmental strategy, the agriculture strategy, we can't bring those strategies, we can pull that cheap money or free money, and then we call on ourselves to stand somewhere. Well, they're back on us that we didn't adopt some documents. On the other hand, these are obviously our relations on the Euro-Atlantic road with international institutions, so I will read what it says in the Central Bank Report on our agenda today. In September 2016, Bosnia and Herzegovina signed a three-year extended arrangement with the IMF of 1,070,000,000 KM, with the aim of supporting the implementation of reform measures in the country. The signing of an arrangement with the IMF should have positive effects on public investment, primarily through external/external borrowings, given that the arrangement, in addition to IMF funds, allows access to the resources of other international financial institutions that would focus on infrastructure projects. The arrangements also expect to improve the quality of public consumption and the restructuring of expenditure in terms of narrowing down the space for ongoing non-priority consumption to free up investment and infrastructure space. Then we won't adopt this report today either, because that's what the Central Bank report says. ... And this 66 we've probably verified here in this House. [[You don't understand.]] I remind you that these international contracts are being ratified. Now that that's how I'm going to repeat another sentence that I used to say, so it's obvious that now that a part of my colleague is changing his mind from 20 years ago, is, when we've chosen this Euro-Atlantic path, he thinks that we can bring Bosnia and Herzegovina into the curative state of all European states and states in the environment, so we have, we can, we don't need anyone. Well, then we can give up the Euro-Atlantic path, because obviously we have the strength to join that family and join their way of life and business and their own forces. I believe we can do this. And that's why I don't like the Commission's negative opinion because I expected them to, since most colleagues who support this report, and that's negative under these laws, should have suggested that those excise duties that exist be abolished. It's the best protection of citizens. So, if the Council of Ministers won't do it next time and propose the suspension of excise duties that exist at all, because they already exist, so this is added, then this is where they expect... Mr. Emrić and Mr. Šepić as an initiative. So, to put an end to the existing excise duties, and then, I think, we'll better protect the citizens they stand for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17582	Thank you. Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17583	The correction refers to Mr Ahmetović in terms of forming these funds. So, the formation of new funds means again, uh, income from someone to take, so again from the citizens. In order to form a fund, we need to find some sources, so again from the citizens. And another very important thing, the adoption of this Law, therefore, makes it impossible for us to continue accessing international financial funds, i.e. banks, from EBERD to Kuwaitian Development Bank, to the World Bank, etc. So it is very important that at this point we show what Bosnia and Herzegovina really can and what it wants, so the entry and the path to the European Union. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17584	Thank you. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17585	I don't understand why my colleague Lovrinović called me to submit some initiatives. I am not the government in this country, I have voted for the Council of Ministers of BiH but in a way that the Council of Ministers is in the interest of all citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina and is leading reforms that will be in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path. Therefore, the European path we have routed to the Reform Agenda says fiscal consolidation will be implemented by reducing public spending, and by reducing public spending. It was first highlighted in the Reform Agenda. What have we done in the Council of Ministers to reduce public spending? What kind of denials have we made as a general public administration to show our 67 citizens that we are serious on the European path? Nothing. The citizens tell me – you didn't do anything, we don't trust you very much. And that's why we have to change approach, we can't do this. The most painless, the fastest, the increase in excise duties, take from the citizens and, what? We've secured the funds. Let's get new loans. Until when? The citizens say, "How long will you be in charge of us?" So give some talk to the citizens, talk to the farmers. You know what the farmers say? Why didn't you agree to the IPARD structure so that we could withdraw funds from the European Funds? Why didn't you do it if you were the government? Well, here I am now calling on the government, doing these things that will show these citizens that we are for the European way, but in the interest of the citizens, and we cannot impoverish the citizens and then bring them into the European Union, the poor and the poor, or, gentlemen, they will not survive until we do. We're heading this European way. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17586	Thank you very much. Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17587	Well, I only mentioned it as a proposal, so, the fund, and there's more reason not to explain why. As I said, the Physibility Study for Corridor 5c is five billion marks, and we spent 6.5 billion and we don't know why we spent it, and we took the money from the citizens. So just to control the money that needs to be more transparent. So no one here is going to report to anyone where the money we've spent so far, who spent it, why he spent it, what he was doing, what the directors, what the companies were doing, were they the best, the most favourable, the most reliable, etc. So I'm one, so that was why I said it. If we in the European Union, if we build Corridor 5c and we don't have young people in our country, because they're going to run away from poverty from this country, then we're not making anything, then we won't need a road, old people usually don't see them driving, and the young will already be in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17588	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17589	Well, it's just for a little while, Nikola. So, if she's taking this initiative, I'm willing to support her, Nikola, what you just said. And why don't I believe that, and why I'm against one of these approaches, I've been saying, here, this morning, but I'm just going to say a few things here. This Council of Ministers, Nikola, through this Reform Agenda, through what we all adopted and swore that we would really do it on that path, promised to reduce this trade deficit – it is bigger, so it promised, let's say, to cut taxes and parafiscal burdens, and to improve conditions for foreign investments – and they are less, so it said that last year we will have at least a billion foreign investments – and we don't have half a billion. So, I'm talking about it. It's one thing the government says, and the other thing is what the government does. And so, with full argument, I'm saying that this Council of Ministers doesn't have that kind of credibility, there's no kind of capacity to accept what we're going to do here and say to bring it all the way out. And, say, all wisdom is in it. If you suggest one initiative, this one as you mentioned 68 earlier, to further reduce the burden, uh, from the back of the people in this country, I'm willing to consider it and support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17590	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17591	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17592	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17593	Well, the wrong assumption is, therefore, the correction in the sense that excises don't go exclusively for roads. I repeat the funds to the Single Account and will be distributed under the Law on the distribution of public revenues. It's on one side. On the other hand, when it comes to Šepić, this answer to his question about roads, roads are not built in the sense that we suddenly develop infrastructure. So, there goes the corridor and in the corridor inside Bosnia and Herzegovina will, of course, do everything else. So, I don't see any reason really for controversy about where money goes and what... The money is known where they are going, going to the Single Account, from the Single Account to the Public Revenue Act are assigned, from the State to the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17594	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17595	So I would also like to rely on the discussion Mr Lovrinović had, so when he says that we have all signed and that we have opted for a European path. That is true, however, it is not clear to me that in this very context my colleague Lovrinović is always invited to make us, who are against this set of laws, making us actors who are against the European path, which is not true. But here, as explained by the BiH Council of Ministers, it stated that in the Action Plan of the Reform Agenda, too, this increase in excise duties on oil products I will remind myself that the Action Plan was also an activity that should have been implemented by December 2015, they say – to establish a total public sector wage fund, i.e. the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the aim of reducing public expenditure. What did the Council of Ministers do about it? It's nothing. And instead, I believe that the Council of Ministers along with its chairman would have the support in this House that you have, say, come out with a proposal not to touch the citizens, but to come from us. Because as Mr Lovrinović says we are for the European path, and we are, but we are the most paid parliamentarians in the region. And why the Council of Ministers didn't come from us to cut wages, both ourselves and ourselves as ministers and ministers. Because since this morning, we have had a chance to see how our ministers behave, so they also have new actors in their environment, they're fascinators, so they're carrying a folder. So they even made an effort to employ a new workforce that would move them out of the chair like this and have them sit down nice and have 69 files drop right in front of them. And yes, of course, that's the moratorium you were talking about not hiring. You've hired all the party personnel, you've secured yourself a great life. These excises will absolutely not apply to you because you have great receipts. And that's the European way. And I agree with counterpart Ahmetović, who is not there, that our young people would only pay off the European road with these new roads, so that young people would go to the European Union on buses much faster and never return to this country again, because with this government and this Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina offer them nothing but a good connection to leave Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17596	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17597	In a way, Mr. Emrić and Mrs. Maji. So I didn't even say I was against, I just read and mentioned some of the obligations that we have and we have taken and we have raised our hands for. If you have listened to me carefully, I have suggested that if the Council of Ministers does not propose the abolition of these existing excise duties so far, then these two colleagues who have explained this well today should not. That's why I said it, nothing more. So, I didn't make out what I was for.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17598	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17599	Thank you. You see, just now, Mr. Bosić, uh, I don't even know a few times, said that I do something myself, but if I point out that your ministers voted in one way, and then your MPs, and then someone wrong again... I mean your parties, of course, of the SDS, the parties from which you come not exactly to you, and that you voted totally against you tomorrow, so it's nothing personal, which is, I mean, politically, people have made public political views, and I remind the citizens that one day they had one political position, that one day they voted like this, that they voted tomorrow, that they voted like that, so there's nothing personal. And then you go in and you say the only reason is because you have your director Autocest, etc., well, it's already going into person, it's already going in, let's say, if I were to convince the situation from the restaurant when the other time the excises fell, and when we were just three colleagues and at the next table, actually a little lower, colleagues from your party and where it was literally a sentence – Dodik is almost not going to be able to pay off the pensions, ha, ha, ha. See, that's degutant. I mean, I don't care about your differences in the entity there, really, but if that's an argument, then it's really wrong. I hope it was just someone's unsaved joke not to lead your party's policy on this matter. And, you see, the director of the highway, of course, put on the SBB proposal and that's why we know what we're talking about, that's why we know what we're talking about, that excises are the best, cheapest and fastest way to build highways. And that's not just the director of the Federation's Autocest, the European Commission's people say, as well, IMF experts say, the most innovative economic experts in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region. And you're saying that it's purpose, and I'm quoting you now, and it's really offensive, and I don't know how you can go out at all and say that kind of thing, and now it's something personal, and with disgust I reject such insinuation, that the purpose of someone's company is to get a tender. What 70 are you talking about, what a firm? Well, if that were the purpose of that, then that director of the Highway wouldn't go the best, both the fastest and the cheapest way, but would go any way to build roads to get a tender, which would then give a shit what's cheapest, fastest and best, because apparently the conditions for building highways don't exist, and that's the purpose of getting a tender, then it wouldn't matter, let's do it the most expensive way. But precisely because when we take over a resistor then we realize that we are taking responsibility and that we are acting in accordance with that responsibility, and that is to choose the fastest, cheapest and best way, that is to follow the European Union. Because if anything else had been our goal, as you insinuate, then you would definitely not have followed the recommendations of the European Union. And I don't need you, either, uh, to prove all this, as I've already said the most important economic experts have said all this. Coli Isaković could speak much more eloquently of these economic topics than I did, and unfortunately he spoke more of it than the chairman of the Council of Ministers, whose superior tasks were both at home and in the media. And finally show me the land that the highways built without some kind of duty, but what might be even more important, show me a land that didn't return multiple times in various fields. What some colleagues are talking about goes young to the European Union, etc. So how do you think those countries that they're going to have built up those economies? Right on the highways. That's why, it's one of the biggest reasons we have what we have, it's an absolutely undeveloped infrastructure network in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it's no wonder that all this is happening to us with this kind of political approach. Now I say, watch out for something, uh, whose responsibility is here? A member of the presidency, Džaferović, has recently warned someone that Mr Izetbegović must not be mentioned, but, behold, that is his public statement, he recently said that the SDA was never stronger than the rickety of Alija Izetbegović, to hold all power by means of verticals from members of the presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the College, members of the commissions, etc. That's true, but with all these powers comes responsibility. Now it's not clear to me where that responsibility is if you allow the most important commission, the Finance and Budget Commission to have a 5-4 ratio when it comes to this. And if there's no highway construction, then you'll know where the responsibility goes, where the government is the biggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17600	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Bosić, deputy chairman, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17601	I don't know if you sighed after the end of Arnaut's discussion or because I answered your call.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17602	You go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17603	I'd like to explain a few things here. So, if we're not lying, in the Reform Agenda, which we signed, there's no excise on fuel, there's no writing, don't lie to the people, then the Council of Ministers put it into the Action Plan. Now, the reform agenda we agreed to politically has no excise on fuel, there's a excise on tobacco and alcohol to help health. And where the excise duty on tobacco and alcohol is now, and wasn't it more important because of the people, which you're so soul-sufficient that it wouldn't have been a crash at the emergency room, where it is now, is it more important that what is proposed here or more important to train health and that people can be treated normally. Well, it's clear what this is about, we're not here, nobody's here since yesterday in politics. If you think you're gonna fool someone, maybe you're cheating on someone who's sitting in front of a TV and reading your press, maybe they're thinking about what you're talking about. If you'd advocated it this way as you advocated this excise duty on tobacco and alcohol, perhaps I would have believed you, this is how it's clear what it is, please. How did others build roads? And I had a chance to live in Slovenia and watch them do it. They've been doing it planically for 10, 15, 20 years. Well, you all remember at the time of the old Yugoslavia when they built a piece of road from Ljubljana to Maribor that they built other roads from road to road because of the big traffic on that road later. And it's not true that there's no country that didn't take loans to build roads. You know how many states are in trouble right now because it's built roads nobody travels to. Here I will not, it is not correct to mention the problems that Croatia has with it, you know how many roads have been paid in Croatia from Osijek, to Osijek, not known, Županja-Osjek towards the Hungarian border I do not know if any of you have taken that road, e traffic there is about as traffic on the highway from Banja Luka to Doboj. And it takes someone to assign this people who have less and less to live on to build a highway, I repeat, from Banja Luka to Mliništa to Split, which will not be traffic in any way, or there will be very little traffic, and we need people to ask them to finance it in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's how I see the problem. [[Employee is warned on time]] That's why we're opposed to this way. If you said this, this time you should do for the good of the citizens so much traffic on that highway, so many people will benefit from that trip. I don't think anyone would mind. [[Employee is warned on time]] So without the plan of what's going to be built clearly, you're all inviting yourself to Corridor 5c, so no, Corridor 5c, we're all here to degrade, but in this kind of organization and with this kind of administration, so please don't. If the only way to do something here is to owe the next generation without me here Let's spend it, then I don't want to be a part of it. [[Employee is warned on time]] So, there are only two ways to get this government to get the money, to raise taxes or to owe the next generation, because we've spent everything that's been from our earlier generations, we've sold, here I know in Republika Srpska we sold Telekom, we've sold the economy, we've spent the money that's been in the past generations of rules, and now we're going to owe our generations and our children for, I don't know, 20 years to come. Well, it's not people's serious politics.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17604	Thank you very much. Dear Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17605	Since my colleague Lovrinović is asking me to propose something to this House, and I am not the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I am thinking what is best to suggest, and since I have been in this problem for almost a year,... I am the possibility of an alternative solution myself, but it is also prescribed by gentlemen in Article 62. The unique rules for making the legal rules they say – that the reasons for introducing rules and explaining the policy chosen should be based on evidence that the discussion was conducted and on alternative forms of regulation given matter. Where is the evidence by the Council of Ministers that an alternative forms of regulation of matter have been discussed? There's no such evidence, no alternative, and the alternative is a reduction in public spending, we've committed 72 to the Reform Agenda. If the current expenditure were to be reduced by, I ask the question, from 7 to 10%, that is, for analysis, we have these analyses, but it's too short to explain now, would we be in a better situation and would our budgets have fiscal sustainability and stability? Is that an alternative? Well, we should have had that in the last year as a choice. We do not have the option of choice here, and the unique rules for making legal regulations say – there must be an alternative solution and there must be an analysis of that solution to know if this is what is best. And here again it is important to emphasise, the only dedicated revenue for road construction and highway is toll in the Excise Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and excise duties are not intended revenue. The excises we prescribe today are not dedicated revenue for the construction of highways and roads and it goes to the Unique Account as counterpart Isaković has already explained and has several times focused on it. So the only thing we have here as a means of income is toll, it doesn't change, that's the problem, that's the thing of doubt, and of course the citizens are bitter why exactly in the absence of financial resources and in the inability to stabilise the budget we're pushing our hand into their pockets, and they, as we know, are unemployed, do not have regular payments, have no social and health insurance and do not explain the socio-economic situation of our citizens, this should be delivered to us by the Council of Ministers in a detailed analysis when we make such important laws and decisions of this importance. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17606	Thank you. Reputed representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17607	My replica refers to a respected colleague, Damir Arnaut, because through his own exposure he mentions that we, like we don't know, or should he tell us that these are other countries, especially in the European Union, because I mentioned this departure of young people, so I'm afraid you went to my, uh, discussion when you said they were in charge of building their own roads, which is quite true, and we know that. However, why there is no trust in this House, not a single level of government, is Emrić when we mention and withdraw the parallel between the countries of the European Union and even the regions, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is that they have established the practice of hiring people in both road construction and other jobs that are capable and not similar. That is not the case in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For example, the example of these European countries, which you mention, which also took loans in some past, is that when the minister hears that the public is saying that maybe his doctoral work is plagiarism, he resigns for moral reasons and waits to prove it. With us you have a finance minister without a diploma who returns his/her/her mandate to the party, so not to the government but to the foreigners in one canton and waits when this strongest Bosniak party will declare itself a minister without a diploma. There is also another way other than borrowing, which Mr. Bosić mentioned, and this is this other way, and this is what my colleague today through the parliamentary question, colleague Vajzović, mentioned, is why the Council of Ministers did not make an analysis of the justification of the existence of strong agencies, committees, committees, subcommittees, this where the employees of party staff and this analysis would determine, 40% is certainly an unwarranted existence of these agencies and the like, so whether, of these employees and of their fleets that change every five years with full equipment, is whether, because they are old tires and they need a baby seat even behind to stand for Bog, this, that 73 Make a fine analysis and start from ourselves and from all of us here to save, and only when it might take a little bit of hitting on the citizens' pocket to increase some fening or two, but not what they offered us and you didn't mention yourself in any law to cut your wages. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17608	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear from these discussions that there is one truly great mistrust for both the institutions and the individual between us, but also that these voices come justifiably when the people declare themselves to be the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Obviously that and we have to admit, we can't get away from it, but I think it would be good if we talked about some concrete things here, not things that have a political dimension. I have to say that I suggested I was, but here, we failed to realize this because the development of the event went in one completely different direction, that it was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, that there were both entities' governments present here, because it is clear to everyone that it is actually the source of one such proposal. And we're talking here, and we're not exactly experts on these things, and we needed some expert discussion and an explanation of this process, this procedure and this proposal. I have one presentation, of course, it's not my presentation, I didn't do it, but from here I'd only take some things that are ecluent and that very carefully illuminate this question and the excise and question of building Corridor 5c. By the way, I am perfectly clear and fully aware of the criticism that is being addressed to the Council of Ministers and other institutions that have not adequately approached the explanation of a proposal like this where, in this way, these suspicious, dubious approaches and these, these explanations that we have had the opportunity to hear. So it is clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina is very bad or catastrophic with road infrastructure, that from 45km to 100km2 Bosnia and Herzegovina is the weakest in Southeast Europe with an average of 52km. So, from these discussions, I've heard very little that it must be built. And how will it be built when there's no money? All of this, all of what has been heard of the proposals to take money are the most expensive ways, whether concessions, it's an expensive way... a long-term period, whether it's a private-public partnership, then that money should be taken from the banks that will give funds, it's not controversial, but at significantly greater interest than you would get interest in this case. So it's said this way -- with the security of these funds, as suggested, it would be possible to get billions of funds, a billion euros in the next period that could be invested in Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel infrastructure, where the Unsko-San canton would get 42 million and for the reconstruction of roads and construction of shares, tunnels, the Tuzlan canton would get 35 million, but if it were provided, here it stands, so I listed it as a source of income, i.e. data, not my knowledge, but I came up with one such material, and I just want to say that when we discuss that we have these things in mind. It says – in case the debt burden would fall to the budgets if credit was raised, which would result in significant cuts in expenditures and would particularly affect certain groups of people. That's probably where you think about the funds from which pensions or other social contributions are provided, so that would come, as you would say, into an unenviable situation. And if it were to be taken into account and the fact that because of the fuel collection that has also to be said, the cheapest thing in the region, this, in order to get into 74 situations, would have to find the means to sort of balance these extra burdens so that people don't come to an unsavory, unspeakable position. But here, I'm saying, uh, this is, and this is also what I'm saying here, it also says in the material that these are investments that would allow for the construction of the fully needed infrastructure. And as for these vehicles that are not around Osijek, there is, of course, no, because they come to Bosnia and Herzegovina and where they enter the dark villa on the roads that are, as they are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so no one from Europe will be driving on the roads, although we need to realize that many passengers from Slavonia prefer, and no matter how they are, they prefer to go through Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the rest would probably use this Corridor 5c more if it were finished in the right way. So you've heard the attitude that the SBB is going to take, but I'd pray that if this is the correct data, I don't doubt that they're right, it's also meant to be said about these things and when we come to terms with all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17610	Thank you. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17611	I just have to ask my colleague, Đonlagić, because I didn't get it right, you said if you didn't adopt the excise duties that you would end giving in the health funds of PIO/mio as far as I understood you, that's yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17612	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17613	All right. I'd just like to ask you one more thing, uh, I'm looking again on the basis of Article 90's vote by calling, because this information unit at my colleague Beganović's office is not working, there are interruptions all day, and we're asking that the vote be held at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17614	Before that, we'll check on this unit, uh, here you go, so the service check out what's going on with Mrs. Beganović's device. Correction of the wrong quote, Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17615	So, just a colleague of Đonlagić's, for a while. So, since it talks about the concrete things it reads in these papers, to remind it, for example, for example, for example, the examples are specifically in the documents in the Government's letter of intent that it will, for example, reduce the parafiscal burdens and facilitate business in this country, and we are the only country in the region and in Europe that fell on that Duing Business List compared to 2015 and 2016. So one thing we write is we behave completely differently, there's no capacity for this government to bring it out. The second thing, he said, they also promised to make a register of employees in the public administration, that it would end by the end of 2016. They haven't even started doing that at all. So, speaking of someone, if we're referring to some of the things that these governments have written, and then, as God's sakes, we need to take that as an argument why would we raise our hand for this today, then we still need to be a little bit, as I say, more concrete, that we should be according to those things that are written like, look at them, one, uniformly and not have some double kind of arche. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17616	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17617	Good evening, everyone, here's to the fourth item of the agenda. Well, I hate to be involved in this debate, but here I am, too, a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget, even the chairman, so I'm going to sort of refer to the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget. The truth is it's completely legitimate with five votes against and four to reject this set of laws that it's about. Normally, the short explanation, is the business obligation of those who are against, or the Commission if it is against to explain why it is against it. I don't fully agree with this one line of reasoning. So here's why I'm going to be able to put my debate together from a few corrections of false allegations, because I've been around this subject today, but whenever it's been discussed, I've heard a lot, I'd say, collecting pears and apples, a lot of numbers that don't have a relationship with each other, and here they're looking at each other as arguments. First of all, one thing that may have to be said has always been resented by the Council of Ministers that it has not explained anywhere what this money is going to do and build. I remind you that half last year we adopted a Framework Strategy for Transport in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this Transport Strategy, it is very precise what everything will be built on, from highways and fast roads and also from highways, when it will be built, in which dynamics, with which money, what can be built without these excises, without these funds with currently effective loans, as the Minister of Finance likes to say, which loans are not effective or will be only effective about these, after the adoption of such a possible set of laws. And that dynamic goes on all the highways, by lotes until 2030, about that document. Perhaps the Council of Ministers' error is a complete, complete Framework Strategy for Transport has not copied and invested as an explanation under this set of laws, but I repeat it is a publicly available document and we could make an effort and gain insight into at least that part of what is planned to be built, when and of which funds. The second might be the constant replacement of thesis here, about some 6 billion excises that are unknown to where they're spent. I remind you that all excise duties on oil derivatives and on various other goods are budgetary revenues, indirect taxes which are the budget revenues of some 300 budgets in this country. Each year, those funds are justified in the reports on the implementation of the budget. So far, the only source income for two highway public companies has been those 10 toll fencings that concern highways. As predicted through this set of laws, it would no longer be 10 than 20. Here's for famous reasons so much about it. I'll do the same as I'm on the Committee, and I won't read a few sentences from the Central Bank Report later when that agenda point is in place, here's a brief explanation of this. It says -- according to the official projection of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate, the nominal gross social product (GDP) in 2016 was about 30 points something billion 76 KM, representing a growth of 3.1% compared to 2015. We can also read that on the labour market, measured by administrative data, there is a reduction in the number of unemployed, growth in the number of persons employed. In one table later we see that it is 23,000 more employees in 2016. We can also see in the table that the external debt, that Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt is a foreign debt of 29.2% compared to GDP, is a total debt of less than 40%, respectively. In this report, we can read that capital was never cheaper. All these facts naturally state that if you have a development project and you want to implement it and you don't have your own resources for it, and even if you have some, credit duties are at this point the best or natural path, of course for development projects. We who eventually trust that this development money and development projects are agreed Maybe we're wrong, maybe it's true that there are fewer thieves, if there were fewer administrations, we could do anything from our own means, but is that so? [[Employee is warned on time]] Another sentence from the report on the state of the economy, in the Central Bank report, regardless of this gross GDP growth of about 3% is said – as in the previous year, there was a decline in production volume following the slowdown of works on road infrastructure construction, especially Corridor 5c. This is not about excise duties, but about the Administration of the Public Business Autoceste, I believe that, at least as far as the Federation is concerned, whoever, I don't know how, blocked the LOT 1, LOT 2 on the Zvirovići-Pcitel stock, etc. For the future of this state of construction Probably responsible, in a way responsible and we through the story of these laws. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17618	Thank you, Mr. Kožul.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17619	That's why I refer to those 10 minutes at this point, but here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17620	Thank you, thank you. For five minutes, we have to refer because it's such a decision. The chairman of the Council of Ministers asked for a word or you'll end up fine. Honorable representative Đorđo Krčmar, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17621	I thank the chairman. Fellow MPs. In Switzerland or Switzerland, however you like, when the state works like this and wants to do some projects more significantly, and to put a hand in the people's pocket to write a referendum and then ask the people if they want to finance more significant projects. We here, 35 of us should decide to see here, uh, certain colleagues don't have, yes, what has 3.5 million citizens to do, whether they want this and that they pay for it. There were a lot of good, quality discussions here where colleagues sought justifiable justification for the construction of the highway. The highway isn't just enough to build, it should be maintained. This morning when I was going, and here Mr. Bosić was fine with it, from Prnjavor to Doboj met from the opposite direction three passenger cars, and I didn't get to Doboj any cars. So there's a question of any justification for that highway. It's nice to have highways, we're looking at Germany, we're looking at Italy, but when you head to Venice, then you see you meet thousands, thousands of trucks. This morning, from Zenica to Sarajevo, I didn't meet a single cargo vehicle. When you enter Gradiška in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the entrance to Gradiška, then you will see when you enter that five cents is the difference between the level of asphalt when you enter Bosnia and Herzegovina is the goods coming from abroad with full trucks, and when they return the level is higher because they empty the goods and move 77 back. There's a question of our economy. It's not the price of brand fuel, it's the price of two stamps, gentlemen, and it's not 0.15 not 0.15 but 15 fencing per litre. But if you know that 80% of pensioners are missing, they're unable to get one tank of fuel. From Gradiška to Banja Luka, 70% of traffic takes place along the old road, so people don't have the money to pay for the highway. It's not a question that we don't want the highway, we're not an uncivilised people, we're uncivilised people, we want the highway anyway, but this isn't a question just, I'm listening here to three sessions of agriculture, farmers, etc., this is about students, pensioners, anyone, the price of fuel, and not only the price of fuel you have tomorrow, you've got the collection of energy, water, chain of automatic everything. Therefore, here it would be correct, and this should introduce a rule, I only look at what the government of the Federation and the Government of Republika Srpska is doing, as it owes these peoples here, democratically it would be a referendum so we ask the people – are you gentlemen for it, is this what you need, are you for putting your hand in your pocket for that and for that? It's done in democratic societies. And we have given ourselves exclusive rights, and not only us, but I am also looking at the governments of both the Republika Srpska and the Federation that we are the exclusive ones who need to decide these issues. And that should be practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17622	Thank you very much. I now give my word, since there are no more representatives reported, the Honorable Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17623	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17624	We'll conclude when you're done with the debate, as far as the MPs are concerned, I believe the debate is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17625	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here I heard all the discussions of which were indeed very good, reflecting the knowledge and expertise of the representatives who spoke about this topic, and for some others I really had to check that I was invited to a session of the BiH House of Representatives or the political stands, because it was about classical self-promotion, political and personal, on such an important topic as excises. I will, of course, answer the questions asked by most MPs and in any case try to resolve the dilemmas that have been raised during your discussions, most of which, I say, were professional discussions that could be very significant, high-quality and useful in the final definition of this topic. So let me start from the beginning. Therefore, the claim that the introduction of excise duties and excise duties on oil and petroleum products will be used to patch up budget gaps in Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget and the entity is completely incorrect, unfounded and there is no single argument that those who claim to be able to prove it. Therefore, the excise tax on oil and oil derivatives will not serve for any kind of recovery of the budget, especially at the entity level, because in the laws that you have received very clearly and precisely one member is particularly committed to the clear definition that the funds from the increase of excise duties on oil and oil products, biofuels and diesels go exclusively for the construction of highways and roads on the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, no patching of budget gaps is at stake. 78 The claim that up until now 6 billion KM has been collected based on oil excises and oil derivatives is, I don't want to be rude, but it's a completely pointless finding, which again has no basis in any of the facts, any data, or any fact. For example, here I will tell you that, let's say, the Federation of BiH in 2015 and 2016, the Federation of BiH highways took 143 million from excises, and the Federation 190 million roads, of which 60% go to cantons, 60% to cantons, and 40% to the Federation, while these amounts to Republika Srpska are 30% smaller. If we consider that oil excises and oil derivatives have been collected for some 6-7 years, considering this average of about 150 to 200 million a year, then the finding that over 6 billion KM has been collected is really total nonsense, or obviously that figure is changing with the total fuel consumption of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina over the last 20 years. Furthermore, the claim that the introduction of excise duties will lead to and increase the prices of any product is based on the practice so far very flat and completely unfounded. We have the fact that diesel fuel prices over the past 3 years have significantly oscillated, on average 20 to 28%. So, from the price of 2.4 KM in '14 to 1,8 or 1,79 KM in 2017, while at the same time the growth or decline in the index price was constant or almost stagnated. So there is no real practice or evidence of such a claim that, of course, is flat-rate and sounds nice in terms of protecting the standards of the citizens to which part of it was called, of course, representatives. When we talk about the task of building an infrastructure without whom, without which there is no dynamic and accelerated economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina is not possible, so without road infrastructure Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot talk about dynamic economic development, regardless of the quality of its natural and human resources. And such infrastructure, primarily road infrastructure and then rail, and every other infrastructure, energy infrastructure, municipal infrastructure, is not necessary for us to develop those sectors for which we have natural resources, for which we have human resources and for which we have competence and competitiveness in our region and in the region of Southeast Europe. If we look at only analyses in terms of any development of any of these sectors, let's say take tourism, Bosnia and Herzegovina is still among the 20 countries of the world with the largest increase in tourist visits, but based on the ranking of Bosnia and Herzegovina among the first 10 countries we are by the quality of cultural and historical heritage, by hygiene, by food, by accommodation, but we are in the last 30 countries by the quality of our road infrastructure. So to improve road infrastructure, improve sectors where we have competitiveness, and they lead new investments and jobs, there must be road development, road infrastructure development. And on this particular model that was proposed and which the Council of Ministers has repeatedly, and here in Parliament, both publicly and in the media and in every way explained. Bosnia has the potential to enter these credit obligations because it is the most favourable funds on the basis of which roads can be built in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are precisely the funds provided by the EBRD and the European Investment Bank, because it is soft credits with grace periods that are between 4 and 6 years old and with interest that never exceeds 2%. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a moderately in charge of either the least-in charge of the country in both the region and the European Union. Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt is 6 billion euros, and if we compete with our neighbours, let's say with Serbia, which has twice as many residents, their debt is 25 billion euros or over 72% of their GDP, while Croatia's debt is 42 billion euros, or 86% of their GDP. Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt is 6 billion, below 42% of GDP, and we remain in line with the European Union's proposals, with Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt structure being far the best in both the region and Southeast Europe because that debt is 73% focused on infrastructure projects that, of course, return these funds through economic development. The borrowing would be gradually achieved over the next 10 years and the budgets would not be burdened by any new debts because such repayment through public enterprises that would receive these funds would have returned in 79 or 15 years, depending on the repayment or repayment deadlines themselves. The adoption of the Excise Law would run over, at this point, a billion euros, so 860m euros that would be exclusively focused on 11 shares of Pan-European Corridor 5c, so pan-European Corridor 5c, without which Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot connect with Europe and without which it is impossible to allow faster flow of goods, people and capital, and without which it is impossible to talk about foreign investors because we are not an attractive area if certain goods must be transported for hours and hours on our current roads. Often, I don't know, our people are talking, wondering why countries in the environment have IKEA, let's say Bosnia and Herzegovina doesn't have IKEA. Because one of the conditions for the arrival of such large generators of production is that they can, with their trucks and means, get to the space where they need to do it. If they were to adopt excise duties, 70 new construction sites would be opened in the next 2-3 years, 70 new construction sites on 5c highways and on numerous master roads and fast roads. These funds exclusively go to the development and promotion of the highways, while quite other means go to the development of roads, is it, therefore, not the highways, but the fast roads, and that is one of the answers why you have a agenda today, and this is a new loan with the EBRD because not all the EBRD funds go exclusively to the question of highways and highways, but a part of them go to the fast roads as one of the sources of building fast roads. Apart from the highway, and there are funds for construction immediately 85 km and for 6 years 157 km. These funds would be designed to significantly improve and build highways, so that, for example, 90 km of new roads such as Stolac-Stolac-Neum, such as Olovo-Karaula, such as over 30 km in various positions in the Un-San canton. It would have been built over 100 miles of so-called third lanes for slow vehicles. Of these 106 km most would have been built in the Unsko-San canton, 72 km would have been built in the Unsko-San canton, it would have been reconstructed nearly 100 km of existing roads, 13 tours would have been built around cities that represent life and essential traffic projects for the operation of these cities such as Bugojna, Key, Vakufa, Livna, Tuzle, Gruda, Calesia, Cazin, Kiseljak, cities in Republika Srpska, etc. Therefore, I call on us, indeed, from the policy field, when we talk about this subject, to return to the field of expertise, to speak to real and professional assessments and to the real and professional language, and that is why I call on the distinguished representatives who have declared that they will probably vote for the Commission's negative opinion that they are changing their views, not voting for the Commission's negative opinion, to release the first reading or the first stage which, of course, can lead to the possibility of submitting amendments to show and concern, here we say, for the agricultural sector as well. I also want to say that there is no obstacle for the entity governments not to help the agricultural sector more significantly than it is at this point. The entity governments will receive considerable funds from Russia's clearing debt very soon, will receive funds from the new IMF tranche, hence they will have to make budget rebalances and there will be no problem in the rebalances of the budget from these funds, and the Federation will receive 123 million from the clearing debt, Republika Srpska slightly more than 70, that part of these funds needed to help agriculture and capital projects and protect agriculture in this particular agricultural sector. So, of course, we accept every suggestion from respected MPs, every real, real criticism, but, of course, we wouldn't like to be held here right now by some political tape about how and how we should do it. Those who supported the appointment of the Council of Ministers supported it because at that moment the power ratio in, above all, the cantonal congregations was quite different. Now delegates belonging to parties who are no longer part of the majority in these cantonal congregations have changed their position, of course, to the Council of Ministers, to the Council of Ministers' objectives. At a time when they were formed, when we were formed it was all superlative, now it is suddenly and naturally subject to criticism because these delegates are no longer part of the parliamentary majority. 80 And, of course, I want to end up denying some things that are obviously a reflection of pure pulsism or political self-promotion because it sounds nice to the public, sounds nice in terms of criticism, but are completely incorrect and are not based on any argument, so it is not true that the external trade deficit of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been increased, it is true that it has been reduced in 2015 and 2016. It is not true that economic development has not occurred, on the contrary, Bosnia and Herzegovina is making significant economic progress. The key indicator for this is the increase in exports as a key indicator of the economic development of each country. In March of this year, exports grew 23% more than in March last year and reached record post-war exports of nearly a billion KM. And, of course, it's not true that Bosnia and Herzegovina fell to ranks including Duing's business, but has just grown on the ranking lists including the Doing Business List. Therefore, here we are talking really about an important topic called excise, which we have repeatedly explained, and here we are explaining it and now, such explanations have been obtained before, and I don't think that this should be mixed with any personal or political self-promotion, but we should talk about relevant facts and relevant factors that will lead to the construction of infrastructure, and thus create a key assumption for the economic, or economic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Those who talk about other models would be very nice to tell us one share at a time when they were in power that they built on another model. It would be nice for the public to finally find out about that model and that stock. Of course there are all known theoretical variants of how something can be done, projects, construction, benefits, doors, or, I don't know, concessions and such a thing, but let it be shown either Exim Bank of China, Turkey, or any other state, all these variations are being considered, but let one of the shares that was made on that variant be shown. Let it be said which is the Feasiability Study that would convince a concessionary to take into concession Tarcin shares – Konjic with that configuration and, say, with such access, or, let's say, a stock that is for, I don't know, Bosnia and Herzegovina extremely important like Sarajevo – Gorazde including a tunnel of 100 million KM on which 800 cars go daily, and less than that. Therefore, this is an adequate way for many reasons, because the funds exclusively go for the purpose of building highways and roads, exclusively, not for buying any budget holes because we are the least in charge of the country. We have the capacity to task ourselves with improving the infrastructure and economic development of Bosnia, Bosnia and Herzegovina because these are the most favourable credit assets that anyone can get at this time in Europe and the world. Otherwise, our governments, and they're already doing it, will start borrowing from commercial banks. I don't think it should be, nor should it be, the goal, and with this would be in the next, from today, from the adoption of excise duties, to the next three, four, five years open over 70 new highway construction sites, on shares of master's and fast roads, which means new investments, new jobs and the engagement of young people, engineers and other professions, because the construction of infrastructure binds over 20 complementary business activities to itself, and we want these young people to remain and to build their knowledge, experience and skills into the construction of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17626	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I said that the debate as far as the MPs are concerned, the expectation is complete. What you're doing right now is something that hasn't been arranged by the Rules of Procedure and I don't think it's appropriate to act like this and I have to say it in public, but I can't deny you the word in the Rules of Procedure. But I can put it this way, Mr. Damir Bećirović, this is the second discussion, You have no further right to discuss nor to reply, Mr. Senad Šepić has a correction of the wrong quote, Zaim Backović corrects the wrong quote, and Mr. jasmin Emrić no longer has the right to discuss. So I give my word to Mr. Šepić. Here you go. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17627	Well, here's the short one, so it's the turn, it's the turn to really look back on this, Mr. Chairman. If you had said 5% of your time and your energy in time before you passed these laws in this way to Parliament... to explain it to us as you explain today, we would have had a more correct debate today. It wouldn't certainly be my opinion differently because you didn't justifiably convince us that tomorrow you have the capacity to do what you're saying today. Chairman, therefore, you are here from this pay phone to me and the entire public, say that within a period of 10 days, if you do not make a third tape, that one, that people in my province, can cross the border crossing, that it does not wait four hours, that it may pass in half an hour or an hour, that you, if you do not do so within 15 days here before parlament, this, will be made known and say where the problem is. You've never done that. So if this government, if this Council of Ministers can't make one tape that's about like that sidewalk in front of the Presidency, then how can we people believe here today that what we're talking about here right now is really, that we're going to see it tomorrow, so many miles, so many miles, as it's called, the magistrate's roads, etc. And briefly, let's say some, you mention this IKEA, that now, as it's called, I don't comment on it that way, you promised in the letter of intent that in 2016 we would have at least a billion foreign investments, so tell us...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17628	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17629	Well yes, you wrote it, you have it in the letter of intent, we have five, watch out, Montenegro is five times smaller than we are, and twice as much has an investment. So she doesn't have Denis Zvizdić at the head of the Council of Ministers, she has someone long, but so I'm talking about this data, about what, math. So our country is in a trade deficit with every country in the region and with every member of the European Union. Can someone tell me that's different?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17630	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17631	Well, me, then, what you're saying is casually speaking. And you don't have to throw me out of the place, so it's one thing to go out, so we're making some PRs, when an argument points to your incompetence, you're saying it's, for God's sake, some politics, what it's like to run some campaigns, as I've heard. So understand this well-intentioned and change... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17632	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Bećirović, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17633	I'm really asking you, you have to let us answer all of this. Here, I'm just going to, on one example, an agreement that I've already mentioned, which is on our 82th agenda today, it's about the Corridor 5c Agreement, which means, of 80m euros with the EBRD. There is no interest rate, interest rate, no grace period. And keep an eye on the article, in section 501, section e) – the bank received evidence in the form and content satisfactory for the bank, that the borrower increased the fuel charges intended for the development of the highway network to at least EUR 0,075 per litre. Which one of you could have signed this? This is what you signed with the EBRD in December of 2016.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17634	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17635	There's no... Look out, this Parliament didn't bring and didn't provide, you put in an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17636	Thank you, Mr. Damir, Mr. Damir Bećirović, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17637	That I'm not talking about the others, so you're... tax revenue why are you bringing them in then?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17638	Thank you, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17639	If it's only 105 million on an annual basis, then why do you need those funds?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17640	Mr. Bećirović, thank you, so it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zaim Backović, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17641	For a very short time, not wanting to enter the polemics, please just tell me which member of this Law is defined as going for roads and highways? Where it says it, an increase in excise duty, here, just where it says, nothing else. Secondly, I think that, I highly appreciate Denis from others, unrelated to his place here, and he knows that I'm very fond of that side, but Denise probably don't buy so you don't know, in March last year a kilo of sugar was branded, today it's 1.60, 60%, the oil was 1.75, today it's cheapest 2.25 and so on. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17643	Continue the discussion, Mr. Backović, do not have a dialogue with anyone, speak to the College. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17644	I'm not taking the lead. I'm talking about what's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17645	Correct the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17646	When it comes to it, let me.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17647	Correct the wrong quote, which is the wrong quote, correct it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17648	Yes, that we have an increase in standards, which is not true, and that we will provide this even more, which is also not true. In the principles you've given us, it says patching up budget holes. Read it, it says. So you said now it's not true, and that's where it basically says it. And that 70 construction sites will be opened, and there's no dilemma, just how much money will come out of this country through those 70 construction sites? As long as foreign companies have already transferred the funds to the building, give us the information.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17649	Thank you, Mr. Backović. Time's up. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, I hereby conclude the debate on this item of the agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-958/17, of 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 12.04.2017. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the proposal. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system 09.05.2017. The Commission submitted its opinion on the draft law in 09.05.2017. The Commission did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Damir Bećirović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17651	I'm going to use my right again and say something about this because it's a set of laws. You didn't allow me in that first attempt, I'm sorry about that, and I'm going to call again to support the Commission's negative opinion. So, all the time, there's a story going around that it's dedicated revenues to building highways and roads. I will remind the chairman Zvizdić that the Federation government in 84 2014, took the funds from the budget of the Public Enterprise of the Federation's 15 million KM Autoway without any decision, any confirmation of Parliament and spent them somewhere in its budget. So it's number one and it can happen again. So it's not exactly what you say it is, that it's a means of purpose and that they have to go there. What you said was that annual income is approximately 105 million KM excise, well, you said that, so it's not 6 billion, here, it's not 6 billion. Then why is it so much of a dead name to be introduced if it's such minimal income, why do you need it? Is that up to 100 million a year a problem you can't find any other way if excises are so irrelevant? And I must again refer to this agreement that is today, so you've already promised, I'm sorry that you Mr. Bevanda signed that agreement with the EBRD, that we've already increased the fuel excise duty of EUR 0,075 per litre of fuel. So this is where things are done beyond Parliament, without any decisions already made by Parliament, it goes into the conclusion of fixed agreements that will have lasting consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina above all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17652	Thank you very much. So this was a debate on excise duties, not the Law on the indirect system, indirect taxation. I'm closing the debate. We move to the seventh point and I invite you to adhere to the agenda points, do not put me in a position to start using the provisions of the Rules of Procedures that introduce order here in this House. We can do it with our own behavior. Point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments to the Single Account and distribution of revenue – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Act No: 01,02-02-1-959/17, of 10.04.2017, with the opinion of the Commission for Finance and Budget The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 12.04.2017. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the bill. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Consistency of the Bill with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system of 09.05.'17. A year. The committee responsible is 09.05.'17. delivered Opinion on the Bill's Proposal. The Komsija did not accept the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17654	I thank the chairman. I will not, of course, talk about excises, I will talk about the opinion of the Komsija which is negative. I am now interested in whether the chairman of the Council of Ministers will also address this Law and this negative opinion by the Commission. He should have done it for the past, because, look, here's the political thing, this is the most important set of laws in this House's term, it depends on him much in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers tells us what 85 did and where he didn't do well enough for us to have the situation that we have, that the fifth, sixth, seventh time we're considering this, that the ratio on commissions is so bad. I think the chairman would have, if he hadn't explained himself enough to explain himself today, not to skip like this because it's a bound set of laws. This is a set of laws and each of them is extremely important. And that's why we need to hear explanations about why we have this kind of debacle when it comes to the Council of Ministers because, above all, these are the Council of Ministers' proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17655	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eight-day point, Ad. 8. Proposal for a deposit insurance law in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-960/17, of 10.04.2017. (first reading), shortened procedure The legislative and legal sector delivered its opinion on 12.04.2017. The House College has appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget as competent to consider the proposal. The Commission submitted its opinion on the Proposal for a Law on 09.05.2017. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system 09.05.2017. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17657	I thank the chairman. ...that gave everyone a bit of a break, but I still have to look back on this law, primarily because we're disabled, or I'm personally disabling to attend to the Constitutional Commission and to plead to his constitutional relationship. Namely, as you know, the Constitutional Commission was scheduled to be held on Monday at 11 p.m., and then it was suddenly moved for 13 hours when the Finance and Budget Commission was also in place, which made it impossible for me to challenge the constitutional basis of this Law. Do we need this law? Yeah, so we're not arguing at all. But reading this Law and what the Committee on Economic Affairs of the SDS has done can only conclude one thing: there are very important experts sitting on that committee, that it was in a terrible hurry, because we all know that the Council of Ministers did not do this Law, it was done by the Deposit Insurance Agency, I suppose, even if I am, from Minister Tegeltija's statement, so I conclude, and that we got something worse and from the existing one. The only thing that ever occurred to me when I was reading this Law, too, is that huge discretionary powers are given to the board of directors. The Director has an unlimited number of mandates, but with this Parliament he and the members of the Management Board are the only ones protected from criminal legal responsibility. I thought that Slavica Injac was taught what happened to her in the Bobar Bank case, that someone here in this agency would not actually experience Mrs. Slavica Injac's fate. We've carefully analyzed every member. From the 30th and a few members to the 17th, we have amendments because it hastily been written, in haste, and those who wrote it could at least look at the laws of Serbia and Croatia, they are the same, one of them has been prescribed, and it is not disputed. Not entering that the law is indeed in complete contrast to the constitutional justice system, that the Deposit Insurance Agency is taking over some responsibilities, but it is already the portfolio of a colleague from the SNSD, they are such defenders of the jurisdiction of Republika Srpska, the law is entirely, so you have one Agency that doesn't answer to anyone, does not report to anyone, does not report to Parliament, has no competition for the Director, the Director can be 100 years director, can do whatever he wants because he has criminal legal immunity. So I'm really asking my colleagues who have also supported the Finance Commission to reconsider their opinion once more. I won't go, I've got it written here, a member by member of what's controversial, but, look, I'm just going to give you some examples of how much time it allows me. For example, Article 8 is the most controversial – Monitoring the quality of bank operations. Although the definition of "authority" from the first proposal to "monitoring" has changed, there is really no fundamental change in the content of the authorisation, so now that I am not reading this article. Here the question arises – how will the Agency’s Management Board set the standards of quality that will be relied on, under the circumstances, on the laws and sublaws of the Banking Agency remain completely unclear and paves the way for legal uncertainty. Banks operate in accordance with the Banks Act when it comes to quality standards and it is exclusive that the Banking Agency should prescribe and implement them. The Hypothetically Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency, as it would rely on the prescribed standards, may adopt standards that differ from entity standards. And then we've got cohesion, we've got conflict, we've got total legal uncertainty. It is further said that, in accordance with Article 3(3), the Management Board will regularly consider decisions on standards for compliance. Such discretion for the adoption of a sublegal act, which lacks legal grounds in the conduct of the Deposit Insurance Agency in different situations, are the opening of doors... legal violence. Furthermore, Article 9 provides for bank obligations, for example. Only one who does not know the reporting system of banking agencies can search for all reports submitted to banking agencies. In the position (2) of this Act, the power of direct control and supervision of bank operations shall be conferred on all reports submitted by banks to banking agencies. The position (3) of this member, and others, shall contain the classical and logical powers of the Deposit Insurance Agency And, here I am going to finish, so I'm asking you, yes, we're going to invest, we're aware that there are hands here today to adopt this, but don't ask that this, we're going to get a worse situation than we have. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Perhaps it is wise for the Council of Ministers to withdraw this and propose and give us a solution that will be in the interest of everyone. I say don't give a group of people huge powers, they have huge resources, they don't account for anyone, and then they still protect themselves from ending up as Slavica Injac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17658	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirsad Isaković, discussion. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17659	I thank the chairman. So this is also one of the reform laws and European laws and its objective was insurance, so deposits, both legal persons and private persons. We also stand at the point that in the second stage we will give amendments of a similar nature, but when it comes to legal matters, and when it comes to economic matters, then I fully support this law. So, the headquarters of this agency in Banja Luka with branches in Sarajevo and Banja Luka and its primary task and its primary goal is that all the banks in Bosnia, and I think there are 23, are obliged to secure their deposits at the Deposits Agency and form the Deposit Fund. What is very important in this Law, therefore, has been defined by one who cannot do so. It is very important that individuals, i.e. private persons, are fully protected up to 50,000 marks in relation to interest and, of course, legal persons are 50% deposited. But it's a special story now, and we can talk about it. The SBB stands at the point that this is one of the laws that is very important and unjustly was in the set of excise laws and was unjustly, according to us, removed from the agenda, but here it finally was, whether it came to the agenda, and he got the green light on the Commission. What, in my view, is very important that we also defined non-residents in this Act, so we secured their income deposit, and the income deposit is a term that is very rarely used, so it might be good to say that this is a deposit of both dinar and foreign currency, even shares of the bank in, uh, the competent bank and, in principle, one bank is one deposit, so you can have more deposits in one bank. And I think it's well defined in this sense. And another thing is that now that the bank's operating permit is obtained from entity banking agencies, the opinion of this deposit agency is required. Here, the SBB will support this law because it's the first reading, and in the second reading we will certainly give certain amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17660	Thank you. Correction of the false allegation, the esteemed representative of Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This, given that I am the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission which schedules meetings, Mrs Pandurević said it was disabled because the session was scheduled when the Finance and Budget Committee was also scheduled. However, what Mrs Pandurević, of course, failed to say was that the session was originally scheduled for 11 hours, which was the regular session of the Constitutional Commission, I can't remember when we didn't meet at 11 o'clock, and that among others called from the SDS Club and asked to move the session's schedule. And here I have a name here, uh, while I was preparing for the replica I have a name here, so I'll pass it to you as soon as the session is over. So you're seeing it with your club. And it still doesn't explain it, when we moved in 13 hours, it doesn't explain why another member of the Constitutional Commission from your club wasn't present at 1:00. Therefore, absolute criticism does not stand, it is requested from the SDS Club, among other things, you are not the only one, but among other things you asked for, it is asked from your Club to move the session's schedule. Thank you. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17662	Thank you very much. Correction of the wrong allegation, the esteemed representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17663	The SDS club is here and none of these colleagues, here's the first time we've heard it, we're all here. So that kind of falseness is really not correct. The timing of the session was 11 o'clock, Friday at 14 o'clock shifted by 13 o'clock. Why didn't another member come? He didn't come because I asked him not to come either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17664	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Arnaut, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17665	I think really, again when it comes to a colleague there's no need to raise tones, yelling, etc., I think we all hear well when the microphones are on, so it's absolutely incorrect, not to say unheard of, to say that untrue is being brought up. So they called from your club to ask to move the session so it doesn't happen at 11 o'clock. That's a fact, I have an e-mail, and I'll pass it on to you, so that's not at all controversial. I didn't hear what you said about why another member of your club, then you voiced down, didn't show up at this session of the Constitutional Commission, but the fact is also that the other two members of the College couldn't do it at 11 o'clock, so I'm not transferring exclusive responsibility to you at all, which is why the session was moved. However, the insinuations that it has been moved so that you could not attend the session, given how often you attend the sessions I do not need to move the sessions to ensure that you do not come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17666	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate now. We're moving on to...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17667	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17668	Of course not, I just closed the debate. The chairman of the Council of Ministers has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17669	...after the discussion of these materials has been completed, I would like to say that we have sent the materials to the BiH Parliament at the same time but that they should not be seen as a set of materials and 89 should be separated from this Deposit Insurance Act. They have their connection and connection only in the fact that they represent previous measures and that in this sense they are important to complete an important area. So, according to two laws, they have already been adopted at the entity level and the adoption of this law is the fifth, final law that is important for the regulation of the banking sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I went out to thank again all the MPs who participated in this discussion. I repeat, everything that really has and is based on very relevant facts, so it was criticism or support, we accept as the Council of Ministers. I will never at least answer the questions of self-centered self-reclavers in politics, it will not happen now and I will never do it until the end of this term, but I will answer, of course, the questions of those MPs who are correct and who in their question have some question based on some fact, so it is also incorrect. As for the question of the honourable representative Šepić, I would like to repeat once again that we are really talking, that we should try to deal with the relevant facts. The statement that Bosnia and Herzegovina has a trade deficit with everyone in the environment and the European Union is simply not true. So, ours, we have a surplus, not only with countries in the Western Balkans region, such as Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia, Kosovo, etc., but we have a surplus with Austria. We have an equal export-import ratio with Germany, with Italy, with the Netherlands, etc. Thus, those statements may sound nice in terms of the new role in which the MP is present, but they are simply not true. And let's not train our kind of personal and political advertising to data that aren't accurate, and they're directed to the Council of Ministers. The second question was the respected representative Damir Bećirović. So the bottom line is exactly what he's read now, so the effectiveness of the credits achieved, the effectiveness, comes into effect the moment the excises are adopted. If the excises don't take over, it doesn't have the effectiveness of these loans. And such, I repeat, the absence of 60 million for the highway and 168 million for the highways, and fast roads are made from the acquisition of public enterprises, from the clearing debt, from the means of privatisation, etc. Therefore, if we really want to import the Unsko-San canton within it and with neighbouring Croatia, if we want to start building a fast road of Orasje, if we want to get the Zepce – Tuzla, if we want 11 sections of the highway, if we want the Stolac – Neum, if we want to rebuild and build 23 new bridges, if we want to reconstruct and build 13 new tunnels, if we want 106 km of third lanes for slow vehicles, so if we want to improve road construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the basis for economic development, then it is necessary to adopt this set of laws that are in front of you at this moment or give it a chance to reach an amendment phase when, of course, we can show a legitimate concern about farmers, against which we in the Council of Ministers have never practically had anything. Therefore, once again I call on those who may have said in the meantime or so far that they will vote for the Commission's negative opinion to change their position for the benefit of this country and the young generations and those who are to stay, live and work in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17670	Thank you, Chairman. Let's go to point nine on the agenda, that's, uh, 90 Ad. Nine. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: BiH Ministry of Justice, Act No 01,02- 02-4-566/17, of 22.02.2017. The proposal for amending and supplementing the Single Rules was removed from the agenda last session at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and in order for the Ministry of Justice to submit amendments to the proposal. The Ministry of Justice submitted amendments to the text of the Proposal for amendments and addition of the Single Rules for the construction of legal rules in the institutions on 25 April and 0505.2017. The Constitutional Commission adopted the proposal to amend and supplement the Single Rules for the making of legal rules in institutions with Annex I and amendments. So now that we have this new material, we're going to have a debate. And this is now, when we vote, we vote on that text that came with aneks and amendments adopted by the Constitutional Commission. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the 10th agenda, Ad. Ten. Financial reports for the year which ended 31.12.2016 and Annual Report 2016 – submiter: Central Bank of BiH, issue: 01-50-19-899/17, from 03.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17673	I thank the chairman. First, let me welcome the governor and say that it is a very rare opportunity to welcome the people in the upper part of the budget, who contribute to the money, i.e. the sources of budget financing, both this and everyone else, is whether the budget in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's interesting to me here is the fact in this report that the funds, i.e. the Central Bank's revenues, are falling rapidly. What is evident is that in the budget of BiH, therefore, we have a non-stop drop in income from the Central Bank and you will notice that in the last two years, therefore, this amount is very small, in my humble view, of the 109, 119 million we had in 2009 came to 7.5 million this year. So, taking the data in the last 10 years, we see that that's the smallest amount, it's been this year. Governor, I'm going to have to admit that that's when you took office, is that a coincidence you'll probably try to explain, is it? When we talk about budget revenues, one thing you wrote in this report was that the profit was 519 million, 519.4(?It's in millions, so. From 2008 to 2016, I've taken the truth since 2007, and you say that you have, it's been allocated to the budget of 429.4 million. I calculated that it was supposed to be 580.38(?Of course, considering that you're the percentage you're supposed to be. If 91 was a different percentage earlier, I apologize for the misrepresentation of this data. So I guess it might have been possible, but I didn't find that data, that's a different percentage... 60-40%. When we take the balance of success we'll see that last year, so the revenues were 31,378,000, this year 14 million. Therefore, only 8,437.000 went into the budget and remained the bank for the accumulated surplus, so 5,625,000. What is in this balance of success is that income from interest is slightly higher compared to last year, very little. But what discouraged, therefore, is the fact that effective negative interest is much greater than last year, even by 7 million, is. The revenues from the fee were, therefore, higher, net realised profits from the sale of financial assets, and above all, I guess, because we don't have... reports, it's about securities, but it's down from the last year as much as 15.883,000 or almost 16 million. When we talk about costs, therefore, here it is evident that the costs when it comes to staff costs, thoughts of salaries and other, savings were relative to last year and they, in my opinion, are really, really, uh, interesting for the simple reason that in this report... I read further that this year, you have seven more employees than last year, or 354 in 2015, and in 2016. - 361 employees. When we talk about deposits in ino banks, it's been noticed that these deposits are much bigger than last year, but the worrying fact is that the money in circulation is half a billion more than last year, but if we take into account that this is even a bigger cover in euro, we have the fact that we have a larger amount of, uh, euro than it is... But here it would have been much better if the ratio of the turnover capital was higher, and the smaller amount of money, the amount of money in circulation much more affected the, whether, capital than the money itself had finished. And what I think is very important is the bank. Sufficient, has a surplus of 537,892,000. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'm interested in the fate of this surplus, so 537 million. And what I'm trying to say is, therefore, foreign reserves. I'm gonna speed up a little bit for the simple reason why...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17674	No, no, you'll finish, I'd ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17675	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17676	I'd like to ask you to finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17677	Here, just two more sentences, if you'll excuse me. Foreign exchange reserves at the end of 2016 amounted to 9.531.000 and increased by 10.75%, i.e. 924.83 million, respectively, compared to the end of 2015, while the monetary passport increased by 10.68% in the same period. At the same time, the increase in the relative indicators of the net foreign exchange reserves and the monetary liabilities resulted in almost the same, same coverage of 106.8%, which will say that we have more coverage in foreign exchanges than in dinars by 6.8%, if I'm right. And that's what's good. 92 Here's how much I'd like it. If there are answers to these questions, especially when it comes to words, so, the lower amounts, i.e. the end result of the Central Bank and the allocation to the budget, whether there is any justification for this. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17678	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17679	Here, I'm going to try to say very briefly, I'm not going to talk about monetary policy, about its aggregates because I don't know much about it, it's been a pleasure hearing from the governor that we have a stable, medium-term stable monetary policy, and regardless of any external earthquakes that we have a medium-term stable currency. What I was more interested in in this report is, the part that talks about the state of the economy, so I'll, uh, I'll just say it a little while ago, but I'll do it again. ... from that part we can read that we have GDP growth, export growth, export coverage growth, an increase of 23,000 employees, growth, after several years of stagnation, a slight growth of average salary from 830 to 839 marks, that we have an enormously optimal debt and a series of, perhaps, other good figures. I know that the perception of the public is quite different and that it is unpopular to speak as I speak, because the unemployed number of 23,000 employees doesn't mean anything to anyone who doesn't receive a salary of salary growth doesn't mean anything. But there's just too much negative energy everywhere, let me say that sometimes I feel it here. Well, some positive number, I'd like to, and it seems to me that sometimes I need to say, and I'd like it to come out as a data of these ten figures, that in any minute of the diary sometimes they hear at least one small supply of optimism. I will not be tempted to tie these figures to the work of the Council of Ministers. I am aware that the reasons for them or criteria are more sophisticated and more complex and often external, but these are numbers, if they are statistically accurate, and probably are, which still give a certain amount of optimism or that we can say that monetary policy and economy are both, let's say, a better part of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17680	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zaim Backović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17681	I've been thinking yes or no, but since very often people who run or work in the Central Bank are suffering and pressures we need to know that the Central Bank is not a regulator, it's guaranteed. And there's a big difference between the entire regulator and the guarantor. I'm saying this, I don't want to use professional expressions for space reasons that when we start talking like that, people get it wrong. The currency stability guarantee is not the bank's emission, and we need to know, so the emission does not increase the money's quantity in transport, but the quantity of money in transport can only be increased by the real situation on the market, and by no means, this increase is due to it. And the Central Bank is not a employment regulator, this 23,000 are actually what the Statistical Institute should give us, nothing else, because they can't affect it in any segment. And the Central Bank's income, when I say income, that is, profit, is based on a few things – how many bills are not 93 returned by citizens by 5 fenings, by 10 fenings, by 20 fenings, by 50 fenings, by 1 mark, by 10 marks torn apart, etc. The second part is of interest quality-based funds somewhere, quality speaking, I'm not saying anything else. About what you're actually not allowed to do, and you should and you should be able to do, it's a money trade. And you know that every second, every second of the diagram changes the course in the world, every second, so at one point the Japanese yen X and dollar X-1, so people do buy this, buy what, walk the currencies, what you don't now, what you can't do, otherwise if you could probably make that income much bigger, probably with smart work of course, not with a quick risky investment. The third thing is... he forgot that they're money cleaners in our space. So, all that we hand over damaged, our domestic currencies and foreign currencies, and it buys us some banks, someone for X, they buy from banks, because banks guarantee our money, means damaged, old, like this, and they actually... And there's a certain profit that can be achieved through the transaction. Of course I'm not gonna sing and I know the governor knows I know this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, he knows I know this, given the circumstances he knows. And you actually need support to become a money producer, not a show, but the money you're working on. You must not, as you are asked and pressured to be a bank show, or to put it on the market here, and if there are any crisis situations... anything in this country can fall, but to do it in a good way should be given to you without a doubt. And I suggest to you that when the Central Bank Act is in line with all the principles of banking business, including the renewed Basel Convention, the Basel Convention on Banking Business, which precisely defines how you are looking for amendments to the Central Bank Act, you are initiating it and that you are given the opportunity to actually start working with deposited funds because it is now deposited, it is not important, part in euro, part in dollars, part in, part in, but when you start working between that. The dollar was 1.60 today is 1.80, what's the difference, and everything here would be able to make money. Thanks for...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17683	Okay. Thank you. No one's answering for a word anymore. Now the word has the governor of the Central Bank, Mr. Softić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17684	A good home to a respected presidency. Greetings, all MPs. Thank you for the opportunity to say a few words, thank you for all the discussions that pointed to the report on the state of the economy. Indeed, it is a condition, and we evaluate it as stable and with visible positive shifts, i.e. positive indicators. We have a registered gross social product of 3.1%, we have a growth in industrial production of 4.3%, we have a stable coin, we have a decline in unemployment, we have a surplus, we have a coverage of imports by 58.4%, that's the most, of, of, in the last 20 years of rate, here's close to this year by 60%. So, all in all, we estimate that the situation is positive. It would be better, in the long run, if the GDP rate were 4% and higher, in the medium term, in fact, it would not be able to feel it, only 4% could see the effect. I hope that the economic activities that have been talked about today 94 will contribute to this, so we understood the arrangement with the IMF, and it was pretty much consistent in our report last year. As for the Central Bank itself, I need a few sentences to be clear, we're not a profit organization, we're not a commercial bank, we're the Central Bank, and our mandate is monetary policy, monetary and financial stability, and we do that. Our conversion mark is tightly tied to the euro and it is thank Bog stable and our citizens have confidence in it. One indicator is that we're growing demand for KMs. This indicator is that we actually have about 300, 400 million more interests in KM annually, and our obligation is to buy the euro and sell KM, so to speak. So this indicator speaks positively of KM, stability and trust with KM. The second thing, according to the Central Bank Act, we can't lend to anyone and by the Central Bank Act, we are obliged to invest 60% of the profits after the end of the financial year on the budget of institutions, or the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and 40% of us keep in the Central Bank reserves, we call it capital reserves, it's no surplus. And lastly, you saw the information, and you had the opportunity and the honourable MP with whom I spoke to Isaković, he already noted in 2008 to '16. The year we got 519 million, of which 319 was paid to the institutions, the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget, and 207 were held in the capital breakdowns of the Central Bank of BiH. It was not always continuous, it was in 2008, it was paid into the budget. - 119 million, and in 2009 already 57 million. Last year we had a profit of 31 million, this 14, which would mean the budget went 18, this 8.4. I'm not sure we're gonna keep this pace, this dynamic by the end of this year, but it's more important that we have a stable currency and we have a secure KM, but that the Central Bank makes a profit because that's not our goal. The law states – investing foreign reserves in a safe, profitable way. We don't want to risk it, we haven't sold any shares this year. You know why? What about the money if we sell it, anywhere we invest would be a negative interest rate in the short term, and in the long term 7.8 and long term, a positive 0.3%. Euribor in 2008 was 4.36%, 4.36 and 0.26, minus 0.26 this year. We negatively for, from there, and that amount of 8.5 million negative interest we paid to have a secure K. And that's why we serve capital reserves, it's no surplus, but it serves us to amortise the shocks in the financial and European markets and this problem has a European Central Bank and we share that experience and this problem with them together. I'm going to staću, so much so, I'm sorry that I answered, we're doing our job and we're doing very responsible work and we're working very well together with the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17685	Thank you, Governor. You go ahead. I'm closing the debate, we've concluded the Mirsade already after, I'm asking you to withdraw, if you don't mind. We're going to the 11th agenda, that's Ad. 11. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2016 – applicant: State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, issue: 01,02-50-19-919/17, of 04.04.2017 At the 47th session, the House College appointed the Commission for Transport and Communications as responsible for considering the Report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 04.05.2017. The Commission unanimously accepted the report. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17687	I have carefully read this report, given that at least I am not in this profession, but I am, by reason of the circumstances, participating in the work of the Parliamentary Plenum of the Energy Community and here in this sad position of the suspended member of the Energy Community at the moment. What motivated me to answer is one question to the people from, I don't know here there are people from this Commission, here I've seen a lot of data, a table, and a map, what we all who aren't from this profession with a naked eye might notice if we're traveling, and we're traveling in either country or outside, that one form of electricity production really doesn't exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina or only has it in minimal traces, it's wind energy, wind power. That's why I came forward because part of the people who want to develop this type of electricity production, which is roughly, would locate those plants on one triangle between Livna, Tomislavgrad and Kupres and long planned these investments and complain that they are simply in a kind of bureaucratic hole. For that part of the story most, it seems to me, the blades are directed towards the Federal Ministry of Energy, etc., but one part goes towards you, within maybe the competencies that are, uh, and in the Derk. I have seen on your website a document which is not yours, but is from an independent system operator called the Indicator Plan for the development of electricity, production for 2017-2026.(?) where one chapter is called – wind power integration. There are a number of objects that are in some stages of investment, construction. Most of these objects are actually on this, inside this triangle that I was talking about. So investors both abroad and domestics complain that they have terrible problems to start these investments. I would ask you here, here I do not necessarily expect an answer, why it is so and whether it will be better, but that within my jurisdiction, so I would say as much as it is an opportunist, you take everything, here, that these investments that are often within that observation that we have are foreign investments, which are indeed one of the parameters of 2016, which is the most significant for the state of the economy or overall in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to move forward. So here's one question about this part of the investment -- are these delays justified, can these investments go faster and why they don't go, are these investors' objections that there are really these different bureaucratic problems or some kind of, technical problems that limit them in investing existing, available funds? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17688	Thank you very much. Safer Demirović is a respected representative, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17689	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'll be, uh, trying actually to be brief. What I came forward for would really be a shame not to talk a little bit about this report that was so nicely done by people who definitely know and understand this matter and know how and how to treat this area. So, as far as the report itself is concerned, I am truly giving all praise to the way it was written, and what about supply and electricity market in Bosnia and Herzegovina is definitely that we still have positive all trends, that we have, as it is said, the maximum production, the largest production in the post-war period in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we also have the consumption that is growing year by year, that renewable electricity sources are somewhere at 35% and as regards the price, especially for industry, that in the countries of environment we have the lowest prices and what should be both the good and the chance of this country to attract investment and to create new jobs, i.e. the creation of new plants. What is also good is that more and more consumers, or customers, are changing suppliers, to open the electricity market. The price of those on the market that are definitely what I know the thing, that our producers are absolutely within the limits of competitiveness even though this price falls year after year, especially on these markets, but it's still within those limits where we and our producers can compete. The only thing I could possibly ask as a question or possibly any suggestion concerning this Report is this area, or although there is one specific chapter of Bosnia and Herzegovina's co-operation with the Energy Community and the obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina towards the Energy Community which here in this Report did not give us at least those basic requirements that the Energy Community has towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, which concerns electricity, namely this third energy package, the separation of producers from distributors, market liberalisation and those things listed as shortcomings in the legislation. Of course, I say again, all praises, all praises for this one, one good report.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17690	Thank you very much. There are no more registered deputies. Does anyone in the regulator want to talk? Who in the name of you? Mr. Zeljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17691	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, chairman, chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers, all present. My name is Suad Zeljković and I have been a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity since 11.06, so in this sense I am relatively new, and this Report or Report refers to 2016. The colleagues who are with me are here, so possibly for any clarification, we are all at our disposal. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable MPs for the questions asked in terms of what is affirmative and what has appeared and is related to wind power plants. In any case, we will pay attention to the following reports on the relationship between the Energy Community and the Energy System in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is quite complex and one finding that these sanctions are, they are exclusively related to the adoption of a new Law on Regulatory, Transfer, etc., in their exact name, and it is also related to the inclusion of gas as energy in terms of the national regulator. That's what special controversy is about, as far as I have information, this Law has been given in public debate, it has not received consent from any of the two entities and the problem with this issue is 97 because the Energy Community has reactivated and, as they have called, sanctions, although it is in one small domain. As regards wind power plants, it is not directly within the meaning of this Report, it does not treat it, but it is certainly one of the activities in the sense that a request for an increase of a certain limit, i.e. the figures that is approved, has been submitted to the DerK. During the previous period, Derk as an institution approved a 350 MW quota, it is divided by entities at certain amounts. What's on the ground is that of these 350 MW last year we have produced in percentages 0,00 and on the third 7 (0.0073) GWh, so the realization of the approved quota is very low and small. So there's room to do very much. So those entities that got concessions didn't realize, we didn't have one of those wind power plants running, and if as entities operated for a number of years. Given that we have received queries and requests, and in a technical sense it would be here, it would be rude to explain to you what secondary energy means, what tertiary energy, etc., why it is necessary for this to be realized, we in the Derk have discussed it and, behold, I have to say that those who know the legislation and the work of the Derk we do according to the principle of consensus, so the decision is valid only if they are all three members. In this case, we didn't have a consensus, and that's the only reason why this request that went to us to increase that quota from 350 to 750, it seems to me, the MW didn't get in writing, as I would say, the approval of the Derk, even though we're from two regulated systems, that in this case NOS and Elektroprenos got even in writing, but without an argument of what we expected affirmably that they were able to accept the network one, and these others could provide a secondary one. In any case, we are at our disposal to explain to you in writing all of this, in a technical sense, what it means, maybe it should be explained. I, too, am convinced that there is no shortage of will, but only that there are operationally certain things needed to be done so that, if Bog does, there is a solution. Here, if you think this was enough, I think I've made myself pretty clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17692	Thank you, Mr. Zeljković. Thank you very much for your discussion. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17693	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17694	So I don't think there's any need, one is...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17695	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17696	One on behalf of you spoke, wait a minute, wait a minute, one on behalf of you spoke, you couldn't, you couldn't all talk, one can speak, one is speaking, and here you don't give here, you don't give consent, we heard it, uh, but one representative of the institution can speak. The debate is closed and we're moving on with the agenda. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17697	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17698	I'm the one who told you to make a deal who would speak for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17699	... from Republika Srpska and I am accused of blocking the development of Duvna, Livna, Tomislavgrada,... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17700	Come out for the pay phone, say it before you stand there, come on, you have your word. Come on, I mean, you should, go ahead, go through here fine for a pay phone over here and say what you have to say. Come on, you need to agree on who's going to speak for the institution. This is an inappropriate situation, but I'm not gonna deny it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17701	Mr. Chairman, you're not new to this House that you haven't passed...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17702	Okay, don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17703	Uh, our reports and that we have the right to all three of us to talk because we're making decisions by consensus, and there's only one, the first amongst the equals.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17704	Say what you have, let me run the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17705	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs. I want to explain some things about a very, very dirty campaign that's being run and that's about my name as a member of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity from Republika Srpska. Namely, I came to this institution at the end of 2011 and in 2012 with the great credit of my, and other colleagues, we, after exhausting analyses and commissioned studies from the relevant houses, and which were later revised, made a decision that the system of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this, may receive, integrate 350 MW of intermitting sources such as the wind. And then we took an advanced scenario not conservative in terms of, in order to run this investment cycle and that in the meantime, some hydropower plants with turbine regulators for automatic secondary regulation would be equipped and some gas power plants such as KTG Zenica 300 MW, Prijedor 200, Banja Luka, etc. would be built, etc. So we looked positively in that sense, and that's why we gave, here, 350 MW, so we're going to fight them. But what's going on? We also agreed that... the division would be due to consumers, burdens, that... 99
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17706	Please, Mr. Tuševljak, if you will, finish in the next minute, you have a minute more, please. This is inappropriate, you won't be here to determine who speaks for the institution, say what you have that hasn't been told in a minute and what's important. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17707	I have to say, therefore, that in the indicative plan of Bosnia and Herzegovina which went away last year after many years of weighting towards the Energy Community, Bosnia and Herzegovina reported not 350 MW but fell to 330. Republika Srpska has remained on its 130th quota in that part and has decided to prefer, finance through... tariff 100MW. The Federation set of two power plants has decided to support and prefer 48.8 MW of its 230 quota. And now there are some, uh, investors who want to make wind power plants out of this quota, someone gave them, not respecting our rules, some principled consent transfer for the NOS connection over which we have no control because there is a policy run by members of the assembly, i.e. entity prime ministers, etc., it's completely one other kind of love and interest. But what I'm saying is, it's unimaginable that someone wants to build a power plant and, yes, that they call someone not to give development, and that out of 230 there are 130 unfulfilled, and these 130 are only 48 on the support list.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17708	Thank you, sir. Thank you. You're done. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have concluded a debate on this agenda point. This will never happen again in the House of Representatives. A representative of the institution, no matter what there are three people there, always has a leading man at a given time and he will speak from now on and about keeping an eye on the sekretarijat, and all the issues you have unresolved within the institution, please contact the Council of Ministers, please contact the competent ministry, it will come here to Parliament. We are today discussing the report on the work of this institution for 2016, not on the scales or some of the problems and disagreements that you have within the institution. We're going to the 12th agenda, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2016 – applicant: Office for the Review of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-19-994417, of 05.04.2017 At the 47th session, the House College appointed the Commission for Finance and Budget to discuss the report. The Commission submitted its opinion on 09.05.2017. The Commission unanimously accepted the Report with the proposed conclusion No 1 of the Report. The Commission also adopted one conclusion. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17710	Mr. Chairman, I just checked in for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it didn't respond. I think this was a very awkward situation earlier, uh, and on your side as 100 chairmen, because if you were going to take a word to the guest then you should have said in advance that 5 minutes of his time is as much as ours and that man talks for 5 minutes. So to take a word from someone who came here and sat around all day to make their point just, uh, this way, it was, in my opinion, pretty embarrassing and ugly. And I just got up and it would be good if there was a deal in the future, and if there was no deal then it would be good to deal with the Service who would either be two or three of us saying that we're not coming into these awkward situations. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17711	That's exactly what I said, Mr. Novaković, and I don't care if I have a situation like this, I don't need it, but there must be some order here. Dear Representative Predrag Kožul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17712	I've been reporting for the last time but on the agenda item that is now, this one, and that's the report on the work of the 2016 Board of Appeals. One brief addition to the opinion which, this, which came here by the Commission, therefore, has been omitted two, three words so if, uh, I can add that. So, the Commission has adopted one conclusion, but we suggest that this conclusion be adopted by this House too, it does not say it here, so please note that the words here should read – the Commission also unanimously adopted the next conclusion and suggested that the House adopt it. A few words about this Report may be why we have come to this conclusion on the Commission. In fact, it is evident that in the work of the Board of Appeal in this new composition, this is the first report in which we also have these regional units in Banja Luka and Mostar, there are a number of problems and financial and spatial ones, and I would say structural and legislative ones. So on two examples, two, two figures, I'm going to illustrate. So, the district office in Mostar in 2016 has received 1,366 complaints, exactly 50%, so, uh, the Sarajevo office and the Banja Luka area office have some number between 650 and 700 complaints. The disproportion, which is likely to continue, is structural in nature within the law and should really be changed, as five members of the Mostar Appeal Office per member at year level have 270 complaints, while seven members of the Sarajevo Appeal Office have 100 complaints at year level. It's a disproportion... that's not real, which needs to be corrected, because it's just almost, I'd say, impossible to solve 270 complaints by one member of the office. Also another number that is interesting, perhaps, here to hear is 36% of complaints, almost a thousand complaints are respected. This is a problem resulting from the postponement of public procurement, delay and some investment by the public, and this probably implies the fact that in the Public Procurement Act, as well as the organisation of the Board of Appeals, something needs to be fixed and changed. That is why this conclusion was made towards the Council of Ministers so that perhaps an analysis of the work of the joint Office for the Review of Appeals would bring about some organisational and, if necessary, legislative changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17713	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 13th agenda, 101 Ad. 13. Report on the state of radiation and nuclear safety for 2016 – applicant: National Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Safety, issue: 01,02-50-19979/17, as of 11 April 2017 The House College at its 47th session as responsible for considering the Report has appointed a Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission submitted its opinion on 09.05.2017. The Commission adopted the Report and two conclusions and proposed to the House their adoption. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Safer Demirović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17715	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Very briefly, I may have missed it and may not have, but I have seen in the activities of the State Regulatory Agency that you have had contact with the International Nuclear Energy Agency, and on that famous problem regarding the disposal of nuclear waste in Croatia, I have not been able to find in the Report what the International Agency is like. If you have that attitude and you know it, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17716	Thank you very much. Anybody from Regulatory? We have a director, right? Where's the director? You have your word, please. Whoever put you there, you can't be there, you're either sitting on the left or right. Watch out for these services where they're sitting, uh, representatives of institutions. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17717	I thank the chairman. Honorable MPs and MPs. The national regulatory agency for radiation and nuclear security as a state partner with... atomic energy is certainly in constant contact and monitors all the international standards it has drawn... for atomic energy. Furthermore, the Convention on Safe Care, which was ratified by this Parliament in 2014, is a common Convention on the Safe Gathering of Spent Fuel and Safe Management of Radioactive Waste. On 23 May, the director of... atomic energy Mr. Juki Amano visits Bosnia and Herzegovina so that officials in direct contact can also know their position, but they follow, meaning, international agreements in each item. It is also very important to follow with EURATOM their directive, EURATOM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17718	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to item 14. agenda, 102 Ad. 14. Material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration: (a) Information on progress in the process of meeting the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path, (b) Action Plan for the Implementation of the 2016 Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina, (c) Fourth consolidated report on the progress of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda, (d) Action Plan for the Implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda for all levels of government, issue: 01-06-940/17 of 05.04.2017. (Realisation of parliamentary initiatives adopted at the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 27.08.2015, and at the 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 28.10.2015) On 23.03.2017, the House College asked the Council of Ministers for information. The BiH Directorate for European Integration delivered the required material on 05 April 2017. As competent to consider this document, the College designated the Joint Commission for European Integration. The Commission submitted its opinion on materials on 09.05.2017. The Commission supported the materials and proposes to adopt conclusions to the House. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, right now, even though I am the chairman of this Joint Committee on European Integration, I will be free to propose four conclusions, with all these points, to my colleagues to adopt, or five. In fact, we have considered these documents as you have said, and besides that, we have our round tables, which you are informed of, someone more, someone less, and we are considering certain materials, and we often agree, so to speak, that is, our activities are similar to what comes to Parliament's meetings, both at home. And here's a colleague, especially some, who are particularly interested in some moments of these subjects not being here or answering, but it doesn't matter, so I'm just going to be free to suggest this one, these conclusions that I've said, so I'm going to ask you, here, to make a statement about them. They are, therefore, mine, not the Committees, because we have concluded that we are not making any conclusions except that they are positive opinions about all these documents, which you have in the materials. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking for the next session of the BiH Council of Ministers for information on tax cuts and contributions and parafiscal commitments and on harmonisation of those in Bosnia and Herzegovina's space. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers for information within 60 days on adapting education programmes to labour market needs, and educational authorities are encouraging them to do so. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on how the issue of public private partnership in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been regulated by the next session of the BiH Council of Ministers. 103 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to join a new way of organising the Employment Service. 5. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Public Administration Reform Agency to provide information within 30 days to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that the issue of public administration's responsibility in the process of communicating with the parties, particularly in the area of the economy, is regulated in the Public Administration Reform Strategy? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17721	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Material of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH with the conclusions of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, issue: 01-18-339/17, of 22.03.2017. On a proposal from the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, this item is included in the agenda of today's session. The Commission has taken the Direct Taxation Authority of BiH into account and proposes adoption of the conclusion to the House. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 16th agenda, that's Ad. 16. Rang-list of candidates for a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service Management Board of the Others, material of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1-871/17, dated 30.03.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17725	I have to generally say just, no doubt, but I wonder why we should never... vote on people you don't provide us with biographies, we never have that in the materials. When you type in these people's names, for example. That we have, here from the last point of the agenda, you can see that a man is only mentioned by plagiarisms, number one. For this part of the agenda when you type in a candidate, you can see that she's already working in this Board of Appeal. So I'd ask you to finally start delivering us biographies, references to these people, who these people mean, because here you're putting us in a position to vote on people that no one knows about and that you don't have any information about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17726	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Monika Tomić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17727	I welcome all present. My task was otherwise to give a brief report on the work of this commission. We had four candidates reported, three of them came in for an interview. Of those three, I have to admit that they were all great and we saw everything, all the résumés of all these candidates and, behold, Mrs. Sanela Salihović was still the best of them, and that was all the way to shade, I say people are in their jobs, doing their job and we've gotten a good impression of all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17728	Thank you. I'd like the services to make sure this is delivered. The materials must be delivered. I'm told by the secretary that it was delivered to the MPs, but here's another check, the MP objected. I'm closing the debate. 105 Let's move on, point 18, Ad. 18. Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, No 01,02-34-1 1188/17, of 09.05.2017. The interim joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes is 09.05.'17. submitted a report on the establishment of a ranking of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of this Independent Commission. The proposed candidate for the appointment of a member of the Independent Commission is Vedad Gurda. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17730	So here, like in the previous agenda, my question is whether we can change anything, or suggest a different view than the views of the Joint Commission that had its own proposal. I believe that in the work of the Commission and the Commission in general, because this issue is not defined precisely, too much subjectivity or too much cross-section, so to speak, influence. I therefore believe that here, in my personal opinion, candidate number 2 and 3, that they are much more quality than candidate number one, although the Commission has proposed candidate number one. The points are the result of a subjective assessment of the members of the Commission. So here I propose that today be voted and slightly different from the Commission's position to be candidate number two, Adis Drnda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17731	Thank you very much. No more reports. We're moving to agenda number 19, Ad. 19. First report on monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019 – applicant: Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 01,02-04-3019/16, dated 10.03.2017. After... A representative home adopted at the 34th session, held on 01.08.2016, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency submitted its first report on the monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019. and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019 A year. 106 The Commission for Selection and Monitoring works of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency unanimously supported the First Report and the Action Plan. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 20th agenda, Ad. 20. Information on the effects of the Agrokor crisis on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, material number: 01-50-19-1180/17, dated 08.05.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17734	The Honorable Chairman. I thank my colleagues here in Parliament for supporting the proposal at the last session that we have one of these agendas on the agenda today. I don't think we made a mistake and we made a good move and a good step. Of course, this information that has been delivered is not entirely comprehensive but still gives us some basic insight into the problems, and what is particularly important in the end we have certain conclusions. On the occasion of this point, given that we are at the end of the session, it is already six hours, I propose three specific conclusions: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on the competent authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all levels to take all necessary measures to ensure that the current crisis in the Agrokor business system does not endanger the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives believes that the priorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina's competent institutions must be to protect the interests of Bosnian Herzegovina companies from Agrokor, its employees, suppliers, co-operatives, minority shareholders and domestic lenders. 3. With the aim of protecting the interests of Bosnian-Herzegovina companies from Agrokor, its employees, suppliers, co-operatives, etc., the House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers to provide information to the House of Representatives on the crisis in the Agrokor business system, with special reference to the consequences of this crisis on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17735	Thank you very much. 107 Dear Representative Nenad Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17736	I welcome the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament. Here, I'll talk to you with a few words, I apologize for my throat. This is a good preventive approach when we look at this Information from the Council of Ministers, and I would like to welcome it, because this encourages citizens to still be taken into account, given that there are great values here in terms of how they are expressed in money, both in goods and also in the number of employees. Given the strength of Agrokor and its related companies, whose poor business could affect the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the composition of people who have evolved this problem also convinces us that this is also a serious approach with countries in the environment. But I would like to take the opportunity to say that such a preventive approach should be more frequently applied in practice and that some events have previously earned, earned such approaches and serious measures as were cases from the Bobar Bank to the IGA, or Export Credit Organization, then the Dervent tube factories, etc., further, which would provide us with perhaps, in some way, additional funds to act in time or perhaps reduce that quota of famous excise duties where we could invest in the construction of our roads and roads, which means countering any crisis situations in the economy and economics and preventing corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17737	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Komšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17738	I thank the chairman. Actually, I have a question. It's not a discussion. One segment of the Agrokora crisis is a debt to suppliers, the second segment of the Agrokora crisis is a debt to banks. The table lists short-term loans and long-term loans. This concerns, as far as I can see, the Agrokor Group in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me express my suspicion that your data is correct. Too small amounts are at stake for such a large group, because as far as I know, the main mechanism of the crisis is actually lying in Agrokor's debt to banks, not to suppliers. The CEO of Agrokora is Sberbank, as far as I know. I don't think anyone would want this kind of information on purpose, I'm not going to say falsely, but is this true? Is it true, because as far as I can tell by the short-term loans and long-term debt, it seems to me like I've been able to see, like, 21 million. That's all I'm interested in, because if that's the case, of course, the Agrokor group in Bosnia and Herzegovina related to Agrokor generally based in Zagreb, I'd like to know in which one is then, in which relation of the debts of the Agrokor group of Bosnia and Herzegovina are in the entire system of Agrokor. How many, therefore, Agrokor groups in Bosnia and Herzegovina have, so to speak, my independence when it comes to business. Because this can have a significant impact on everything we all fear - the inability to pay debts to domestic suppliers and layoffs, possibly, workers currently working in the Agrokor Group in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17739	Thank you very much. 108 Debate, MP Zaim Backović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17740	Honestly, I didn't want to, because sometimes when it comes to topics like this, I'm afraid he doesn't get it wrong. But initiated by the conclusions proposed by my colleague on the right, Mr. Denis, and initiated by what Mr. Komšić is, I will only, if you, of course, give me so much space, a few sentences. Two problems are huge here, the real property of Agrokor in Bosnia and Herzegovina except in that segment of donated, it's a producer, it's a natural well-being of Kiseljak Sarajevo and a literal gift of land that you can't get in that space today, I'm talking about land, of several thousand where there's a business building, everything else is rented. There's no Agrokor property, there's no property, there's no possession, and we're witnesses personally, and what I got as information from one part of the employees, that wave, let's call renovations, is just ahead of what happened to Agrokor right now, so it's only in the big mall, the biggest whether it's in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mercator's on the Ložionska street from the ground up as renovated, and everyone's claiming only the relocated shelves, made a wall of rigips, moved cash registers, and there it's been led to the investment of several million marks. And they were all doing companies that were paid outside, out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A renovated centre in Alta, which is not its property, is not, is owned by Alta, rented space, renovated centre in Skenderia, renovated centre on Grbavica, and so on, all of a sudden. And as soon as they opened up, we came, we got this. So it's not far from the mind what Mr. Komšić said. I'm afraid someone isn't playing games with us, because you forget that there's one insurance house in place, and I hope you don't forget, that you don't forget that you're also kids, that you treat people who have signed contracts, for Sarajevo I know, now I don't know about the other cantons, with the Department of Public Health. You know they have technical checks on motor vehicles, etc., right across the street from you. It's a lot more complicated than we think. And if anyone follows the latest report on the International Monitoring of the overall financial situation of Agrokor, he knows what he's saying there. He says – do it right away, otherwise as far away as possible, but just as precise, as long as it takes 18 months for the complete Agrokor to go into bankruptcy. But if it goes completely... we forget that it's one ownership structure, then everything goes. It doesn't have one, it goes all the way, because the underlying capital is the property of the one who's failing. It is necessary to take rapid steps, but rapid steps, not from the aspect of the protection of the name, but from the aspect of the protection of employees, from the aspect of the protection of suppliers, and from the aspect of the protection of real property that should continue to be operational. So, the report's fine, it's fine, but this here won't get the results, because today, we're not far from here, we have two centers, I'll be right out, and you'll see that it's not how we do, how we're introduced. [[Employee is warned on time]] Yeah, yeah, there's a huge number of parts of the product no longer in there. People don't give them away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17741	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Honorable representative of Hazim Rančić, or will you, whenever you want to, will you? Here you go, Mr. Rančić. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17742	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I won't be long. I would like to know the situation with the assets of all these Bosnia and Herzegovina daughters related to mortgages and movable and immovable property, and I would like to, in connection with these figures that other colleagues have talked about, that we know the overall status of goods in the daughters' enterprises in terms of the situation in sales facilities and supplies. Are these goods in the amount of debt they have to the suppliers? If, if that is less than these, first 170 and later 130 and something million, then our firms are in trouble, because the daughters' companies have no place to meet their obligations to suppliers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I would also like to take more precise steps towards controlling the withdrawal of money from Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17743	Thank you very much. It's a closed debate as far as the counsel is concerned. The chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17744	Thank you. I think in the information itself you have all relevant information regarding Agrokor and his related daughters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We received data from the authorised institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and so did this credit debt information. The overall credit debt to the company's daughter is about 42 million KM and the reason is likely that the daughters of Agrokora company, i.e. Konzum as the largest and most dominant, were not actually in debt because they did not build their facilities, they dominatingly have rented buildings of 250 sales facilities, a chain of facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I was going to suggest is that the House of Representatives actually adopt as its final consideration proposed by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resort Ministry. In the final discussions, we have eight conclusions, so I would suggest that, apart from Conclusion 1 which is an informative character and Conclusion 7 which is also an informative character, the rest of the conclusions are converted into conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly that are slightly wider, is it more concrete than the conclusions proposed by the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović? And another information, so Mr. Ravnjak, or his team has prepared a plan to stabilise the situation in Agrokor, as well as a detailed inventory of the obligations... of the whole concert and of course of the daughter of the Bosnia and Herzegovina firm, and it will be, as we agreed at the last meeting, presented to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the official, not in this next one, but in the week after that, so between May 23rd and 25th. Then we will also have concrete data, given that they have agreed in the meantime with an English firm to do restructuring of Agrokor. Of course, our focus, our focus is on what individual representatives have said, to regularly pay off obligations to suppliers, but not more than 120 but preferably 90 days, so that, of course, the payment of the invoice of suppliers of Agrokor van Bosnia and Herzegovina will be in normal terms as it was in earlier years, so to prevent the outflow of any money and capital in a ratio that could endanger the business of the company's daughter, of course, to create a plan that will very clearly guarantee that there will be no dismissal of the workers of Agrokorović to the daughter of the company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I repeat, it is somewhere around 5,200, dominantly around 4,600 in Konzum itself. In the meantime, the Federation government, probably also the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry, will give 110 to one of its representatives who will practically be in the Administration, primarily Konzum, and then to other ten related companies, who will have the right to control the flow of money and in such a way as to prevent it from working if, in any way, the resolution of the mother company would be an attempt to get rid of the assets of Agrokor firms in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. not to allow any, here under quotes, capital extraction or withdrawal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17745	Thank you very much. ZAIM
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17746	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17747	Do you insist exactly because we've concluded the debate with the MPs? You insist, don't you? Okay. Here you are, Mr. Backović, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17748	Of course, I won't, I won't honor what Denis said, just something that, I would ask, Denise this is very serious, all the facilities are rented, he owns these facilities at the parent company, so Merkator owns a center measure in Bosnia and Herzegovina and today. And he who owns Mercatorov rents his daughter a company called Konzum and pays his own rent. What's that look like? I've written this letter to the D.A. before, I'll bring it to you, they don't know how money laundering and capital exports are done. So, that big centre in the middle of Sarajevo in Ložionska was rented and every month the rent is paid itself. I own this chair and these and rent myself this chair to pay for it, you understand me well what I'm saying, and all the centers are so rented. And that's the only thing that's allowed to be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia didn't allow it, but it remained Mercator, Bosnia allowed it. Millions of people go to the rent every month, and it has to be paid, and that's the invoice that goes, Bosnia and Herzegovina's car, meaning, in Sarajevo big in Ložionska, on Dobrinja two, on Alipaša's two and those small centres, if you remember, which is, what they opened up the Kosovo hill, on Breca, po, who used to be UPI's, which Merkator bought. And all he pays for the rent, I speak only for Sarajevo, you have a centre in Banja Luka, you have a centre in Mostar, you have a centre in Bihac, you have a centre in Zenica, you have a rent to yourself everywhere. Somebody explain it to me. So, the company that was called Mercator and owner of it, he now rented it himself, Konzumu. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17749	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17750	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17751	The word has a esteemed...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17752	That's very serious. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17753	Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17754	Well, it's not exactly a classic correction to the wrong quote, but here's a few things to explain. First, the debate on this subject and on this item of the agenda came from this Parliament, so today we wouldn't even be discussing this topic that we didn't discuss it first here in Parliament, we started this thing and we managed to have this agenda point today. Secondly, I have no problem, I am now speaking for myself, to support all these conclusions proposed by the BiH vijeć of Ministers as an MP. In doing so, I would like to mention only one thing, not to forget or not to get the wrong impression or impression, namely, Conclusion number 3 which I have suggested is not treated at all in the Council of Ministers' conclusions. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as the Parliament that has launched and initiated this debate, we have to bear in mind that, apart from this positive role in creating this agenda, we want to have a relationship with this proposal and that is why it is a proposal that once every three months, while this crisis exists, Parliament is regularly reported at least once every three months. Since the Council of Ministers has already launched certain activities, and I am confident that it will deal with the problem in the coming weeks and months, I think it will not be a problem technically either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17755	Thank you. Honorable representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17756	Chairman, I just want my colleagues, dear colleague Bećirović, to suggest that since the first two conclusions are indeed in the conclusions of the Information that we have received, that you withdraw them, and leave only a third conclusion, because it is pointless to adopt something twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17757	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17758	It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17759	Says man - not a problem. Don't answer that again, just, I just said on behalf of you, this, therefore, didn't take it back, the distinguished representative Bećirović withdrew the first and second conclusion, and the third one remained. It will also be made known about, of course, the Information with final discussions that came from the Council of Ministers. This is how we closed the debate. Let's move on to, before we move to point 21. I suggest we bring together a debate on points 21 to 24. 112 Prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. So, with 23 votes for, 2 against, 6 abstentions, with an insufficient entity majority from Republika Srpska's entity we haven't united this debate, so we'll go dot by point. So we move to point 21, Ad. 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on international road transport of passengers and cargo, material No 01,02-05-2-967/17, dated 10.04.2017. I'm opening a debate on the 21st point. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate because no one's answering. We're going to agenda 22, Ad. 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (Project Corridor 5C Continuing) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material No: 01,02-05-2-998/17, of 12.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17764	Mr. Džaferović, did you have the agreement, was it because of the entity majority or was there not a general majority?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17765	I didn't get along, it's obvious that my proposal, I withdrew my proposal, withdrawing my proposal, so it's a groundless alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17766	Did you withdraw your proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17767	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17768	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17769	And now, so we're done, uh, with point 24. So, is there a discussion? There isn't. I'm closing point 24. This way we've exhausted the agenda and we'll see you here at 18:45 at the vote. Thank you very much. I'm asking the MPs and the MPs that if there's someone that isn't registered to register. We're going back to work. Voting for the 45th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 10 May 2017. Point 1. – The adoption of the minutes of the 44th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 35 votes for, no problem, one abstention. So we adopted the record. Moving to point 3. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, dated 10.03.2017. (first reading) Prepare to vote. Vote now. 114 28 votes for, no problem, seven abstentions. There is a general majority, no entity majority from Republika Srpska entities. It's an ex post adjustment. Let's go to point 4. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Governance Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, dated 20.03.2017. (first reading) Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 votes for, no problem, six abstentions. Enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted this Law on the administration of the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal in the first reading. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-957/17, dated 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. We vote on the negative opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 21 votes for, 14 against, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. I find that this negative Commission report has been adopted and the law is not supported, so the law is considered rejected. We're going to point six. – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on an indirect taxation system in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02- 02-1-958/17, of 10.04.2017, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget. We vote on the negative opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 votes for, 13 against, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. I find that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17772	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17773	So it recalls this conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to approach a new way of organising the Employment Service. So that conclusion was withdrawn, and the others were put in the package. 117 here, vote on a package of conclusions. Saša
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17774	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17775	If you're asking to be read. _________(?) We're looking. You're looking. Wait a minute. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17778	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17779	This package you heard, so let's see what's the situation on the ground. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 votes in, 30 against, 12 abstentions. Enough enitic majority... 118
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17780	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-10-0.u17781	I'm sorry, 20 votes for, three against, 12 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted these conclusions that I've read. Let's go, now we're voting on receiving material from the Directorate for European Integration. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 26 votes for, 2 votes against, 7 abstentions. Enough entity majority. We have learned about or learned about the materials of the Directorate for European Integration. Let's go to point 15. – The Office for indirect taxation of BiH with the conclusions of the Commission on external trade and customs, issue: 01-18-339/17, dated 22.03.2017. We vote on the adoption of the Commission's conclusions on foreign trade and customs. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Dake, 31 votes for, no problem, four abstentions. Enough entity majority. We adopted the Commission's conclusions on foreign trade and customs. We are now voting on receiving knowledge from the BiH Direct Taxation Authority. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 votes for, without against, eight abstentions. That's enough of the ethnic majority. So, we took note of the Matter of the Board of Direct Taxation. We're going to point 16. – Rang-list of candidates for a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service Management Board of the Others, material of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, issue: 01,02-34-1-871/17, dated 30.03.2017. We vote on the College's proposal to appoint Ljubomir Zuber, the first-ranked candidate, as the Management Board of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Public Television Service. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 votes for, 9 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have appointed Mr. Ljubomir Zuber as a member of ostali BiH Public TV Service Management Board. Let's go to point 17. – Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals, materials of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of a member of the Office for the Review of Appeals, issue: 01,02-50-14-389-6,5/17, of 03.05.2017. 119 We vote on the appointment of Sanela Salihović as a member of the Board of Appeals. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, 8 against, 4 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have appointed Mrs. Sanella Salihović as a member of the Office for Consideration of Appeals. Moving to point 18. – Report on the establishment of a list of successful candidates for the appointment of one member of the Independent Commission for the Monitoring of Conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of BiH or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-34-1188/17, dated 09.05.2017. So here we have two suggestions. First we vote on the appointment of Vedad Gurda as a member of the Independent Commission, and depending on it we also have a proposal from Mr Mehmedović to elect Adis Drnda. So, we're voting now first on the proposal for Vedad Gurda. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 4 votes for, 25 votes against, 7 abstentions. This proposal didn't get most of it. Now we're voting on Adis Drndi. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 22 votes in favour, 6 votes against, 8 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives has chosen this position for Mr. Adis Drnd. We're going to point 19. – First report on monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2015–2019 – applicant: Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, issue: 01,02-04-3019/16, dated 10.03.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the First report on monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy '15–19. and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy '15–19. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes for, 2 votes against, 8 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted this report from the 19th agenda. Moving to point 20. – Information on the effects of the Agrokor crisis on the economy in Bosnia and Herzegovina – applicant: Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, material number: 01-50-19-1180/17, dated 08.05.2017. We are voting on the adoption of Council Decision number 3 Denis Bećirović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 120 32 votes for, without prejudice, four abstentions. Enough entity majority. So, we adopted conclusion number three, Mr. Bećirović. We are now voting on the Information, together with conclusions from the Council of Ministers' Information. So,... these are the conclusions because we combined Denis, Mr Bećirović and the Council of Ministers. I've been written here to receive knowledge, and I think we should vote on adoption. So we're voting on adopting information with information conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 votes for, no problem, eight abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that, therefore, we have adopted information with the conclusions of that information. We are now voting on a proposal to make a statement on points 21 to 24 in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 28 votes for, 3 votes against, 5 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I understand we've decided to vote in the package. Points 21 to 24. – Giving consent to ratification of agreements and contracts. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 votes for, 4 votes against, 8 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I understand that we've given consent to ratification at points 21 to 24. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding the 45th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I note that the next House session is planned for 31 May 2017. There is a possibility to hold another session this month if the Council of Ministers' material arrives or arrives to discuss the situation in the judiciary with a specific focus on corruption. If that doesn't happen, we'll have a session on May 31st. By then, Ramazan will be performing, and I wish to all musliman in Bosnia and Herzegovina a pleasant Ramazan words to Ramazan Šerif Olsun Olsun, and I welcome you all and wish you all the best in life. I'll see you on May 31st. Session completed at 7:20 p.m.
