ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2802	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all and open the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Today's session is attended by 15 envoys, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serbian people. As indicated in your call for today’s session, in accordance with Article 155. The Rules of Procedure, at the beginning of the session, and before the debate on the agenda, the envoys will be allowed to ask parliamentary questions in oral form. I remind you that together with the invitation to the 28th session of the House of Peoples, you have also been sent letters in connection with the procedure for asking parliamentary questions in oral form. That letter, i.e. a notice on the possibility of asking parliamentary questions in oral form at the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, was also sent to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH. In accordance with Article 156(1) of the Rules of Procedure, he submitted the announcement to ask the parliamentary questions in oral form: Ambassador Mario Karamatić as the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Denis Zvizdić; representative Sredoje Nović as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Denis Zvizdić. In accordance with Article 156(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the announcement was delivered to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and to the member of the BiH Council of Ministers to whom the issue relates. I would also like to remind you that we have sent notice to the Public Television Service of BiH in order to ensure the direct television transmission of this part of the session in accordance with Article 155 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Now we can start by asking oral questions and giving answers. I give my word to Ambassador Mario Karamatić. Here you go, Mr. Karamatić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'm really out of luck, it's impossible to ask the question directly to the distinguished Minister Igor Crnadk, so I decided to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but here he is today, too, and since he's quite regular, I'm still going to ask the question, so I hope that Mr. President will send me an answer in writing. In fact, I recently remained fragrant when I found out the information, I was already talking here about a... animal farm that some animals are equal, and some are equal, and so are civil servants and two employees in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely, there are some special ones among them, they probably owed their country something, and then their homeland, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. Tax bonds, i.e. Peoples in two entities, Brcko District and 10 cantons, paid for schooling, schooling, to graduate, post-graduate language courses, etc. and so on. I am interested – From 2000 to today for which state officials or employees of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions are paid language courses, undergraduate, post-graduate, master's degree, doctorate, language courses and other trainings? I'm also interested in the exact individual amount, the nominal amount for which that civil servant is paid by the name, last name and description of each payment on that basis so that I can, after I get this information and analyze them, see how much money has been spent on it and how much has improved the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has no reply here, I expect in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2804	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Sredoje Nović. Mr. Nović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2805	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers with a request for an answer – What did the Council of Ministers of BiH do to realize the conclusions of the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House held on 10.12.2015, which relate to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Radio Television System? The House of Nations unanimously adopted the following conclusions proposed by the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications. The first conclusion is: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH owes the BiH Council of Ministers to establish a new efficient and sustainable model for the collection of radio-television fees and to propose it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for adoption. The second conclusion: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH owes the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Communications and Transport to address the issue of digitisation as a priority, and now not to read other conclusions, but the conclusion number four says: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Board of Directors of BHRT to deliver a report on the implementation of adopted conclusions to the House of Peoples by the end of January 2016 at the latest. I ask, but here I don't know if there is anyone who will answer at all – what does this House of People mean and what do the conclusions that are made here mean? I think this is almost the last stage in which it pretends to apologize for my expression, the laxity of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. No one in this country has the right to do so, and at least the power to be elected in these homes. If it is for you gentlemen, who hold today's power, normally, well, well, well, well, then continue to let the citizens of this country know it. What do we want today under point 5 or, I don't know what it is, about radio-television and discussing the law once new, about extending the time limit for a tax. We de facto kill this country's radio television system because we don't want to, none of us here, and don't even tell me we're going one step ahead. This is really January 2016, and this is already May 2017. 3 Here, that's why I asked this question. If there is no answer today, then at least let us do our best to get an answer in writing until next session, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2806	Thank you. Here comes Deputy Minister, Mr. Dalipagić wants to answer your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2807	Honored Chairman, respected members of the College, MPs, deputy ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since I was in that period, led the ministry after the change of previous Minister Matanović, I will respond to the distinguished Mr. Nović's response to a part of these questions concerning the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport. On the basis of the conclusions of the House of Nations, the Ministry appointed a working group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the Law on the Public TV System, and the working group prepared the prenact of the law put forward in the procedure of public consultation. We have prepared a prednart law that envisioned the systematic resolution of the issue of the tv system, not just the question of the billing of the tv fees. ... mainly in the procedure of public consultation we got negative opinions. In the process of these public consultations, the ministry did not consider it appropriate to refer prednacrt to further procedures, while a new minister was also appointed who is likely to have some new thoughts on the topic. Taking into account the above, the Ministry has proposed to amend and supplement the laws to which the deadline for the payment of the RTTV fee via the telecom operator has been extended until 30.06.2016. The Council of Ministers adopted it in April last year, and both houses of the BiH Parliament passed. After that, this same, extension of the law that I was looking for today, as far as I could see, is not extended. As far as digitisation is concerned, you may know, and perhaps not, that the problem of the long-term delay in digitisation was the issue of ownership of equipment for this digitisation and the Ministry of Communications and Transport proposed to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers adopted that equipment be owned by public broadcasters to television. And then the first phase digitization process was unblocked. In January of last year, the record equipment was handed over to public TV broadcasters and then...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2808	You have to hurry, it's your time...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2809	There was, uh, the completion of the digitization process. Equipment... Republika Srpska, where it was due in the tenth month of last year, is digitised, the first phase of digitisation is in the centres of Mostar, Banja Luka and Sarajevo where it was also launched. The second phase of digitisation is, a tender procedure is under way for the second phase of digitisation. 4 As regards this third sub-question, this refers to the report, and this should be delivered by the Management Board of the broadcasters, this does not apply to the Ministry of Transport and Communication. And the fourth sub-question, the ministry submitted a report to the House of Peoples in the section relating to the Ministry's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2810	Thank you. Is the envoy, Mr. Nović, satisfied with this response, do you want a comment? Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2811	I don't have a comment. I think it's too much to comment on. If a commission fails, assuming, agrees with the one with whom it should have been agreed, then I guess some new one is forming and moving on into action. Well, isn't it that only this commission was in charge of this country and the only possible. And I think, once again, if it suits the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina this way, then let the toasts of both the authorities and the opposition and the people be re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2812	Thank you, Mr. Nović. Ambassador Mario Karamatić received an answer to the question addressed to BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadk. Is the envoy satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2813	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I got the answer, honestly I'm not happy, I'm not here, I can't see, on these two million they crushed at the Foreign Ministry on the trip, anything that was well done for Bosnia and Herzegovina. I see that we have fallen 10 places on the visa-free scale, I see things like that, but since the Minister of Honor is not here I would like to appeal to the College to appoint the secretary of the commission that we voted on at the last session of this distinguished House, so that we can approach the establishment of a committee for a public hearing of the Honorable Minister, where he will have the opportunity to explain a little bit of these figures, and his work, and what it represents in moments as he resides outside our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2814	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I note that envoy Zdenka Džambas has addressed the delegation issue in writing to BiH Foreign Minister Igor Crnadk, and that, in accordance with Article 158. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, her question delivered to the Minister. Now we're going to the agenda. For the 28th session, I propose the following, amended: 5 Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 27th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Envoy's request: Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Martin Raguž and Mario Karamatić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-133/17, of 28.04.2017; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-217, of 26.01.2017; 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on International and Inter-entity Road Transport (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-2509/16, from 28/09/2016 and 25/01/2017; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Radio-Television System of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Assembly, Law No: 02-02-1105/17, of 24.03.2017, with Opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1 652/17, of 24.03.2017; 7. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of Debts in BiH institutions, issue: 01-34-1959/16, of 04.05.2017; 8. Report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption for 2016, issue: 05/8-04-356/17, of 02.02.2017; 9. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-14-695/17, dated 10.03.2017; 10. Report on the work of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016, issue: 01.02,03-10-725/17, from 15.03.2017; 11. Report on the work of the Council of National Minorities of BiH for 2016, issue: 05/7-50-13- 807/17, of 22.03.2017; 12. Report on the implementation of the 2016 Local Elections – applicant: Central Election Commission of BiH, issue: 01,02-50-19-660/17, of 07.03.2017, with correction Report No: 01,02-50-19-660-2/17, of 03.04.2017; 13. State and perspective in the agriculture sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue: 02/2-50-8-23-28/17, of 03.02.2017; 14. Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal – applicant: Temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal, issue: 01,02-50-14-389-6,5/17, of 03.05.2017; 15. Granting consent to ratify the Protocol with regard to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the one part, and to the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, in order to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, No 01,02-05-2-742/17, of 16032017; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual suspension of visas for holders of diplomatic, official and public affairs passports, No: 01,02-05-2-832/17, of 27.03.2017; 6 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Romania on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes, No: 01.02-05-2-833/17, of 27.03.2017; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border cooperation programme – Montenegro for 2015 between the European Commission, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, issue: 01,02-05-2-834/17, dated 27.03.2017; 19. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No. 1 The financing agreement concerning the state programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA component – aid in the transition and construction of institutions for 2013, No: 01,02-05-2-880/17, of 31.03.2017; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (the Modernisation of the Road Sector in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, issue: 01,02-05-2-881/17, from 31.03.2017; 21. Granting consent to ratify the Convention on the Protection of Wildlife Migration Species, Bonn, 23 June 1979, issue: 01,02-05-2-885/17, of 03.04.2017; 22. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Russian Federation agree on the regulation of former Soviet Union obligations under the accounts relating to trade between the former Soviet Union and the former SFRJ, No 01,02-05-2-1007/17, of 13 April 2017. This is the consecutive days of the House of the People's College. Is anyone answering for a word, or is there a proposal to amend or supplement this agenda? In the absence of amendments and additions to the agenda, it shall not be voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. We're going to the point of one day's agenda, that's Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone getting a word in on the record? There are no reports. So I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Please initiate the voting mechanism. You can vote now. Of the 15 present, there were 15, neither against nor abstentions. So, from the Federation of BiH – 10 for, without opposition and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and abstentions. So there's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 27th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're going to the point of two agendas today, that's, 7 Ad. 2. Envoy's request: Ljilja Zovko, Bariša Čolak, Zdenka Džambas, Martin Raguž and Mario Karamatić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 124. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 02-02-1-133/17, of 28.04.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2817	I thank the chairman. Dear presence. We have one significant number of binding judgments and the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court of BiH, with regard to the corrections of electoral legislation in order to bring our legislation into line with relevant conventions and pacts, etc. And I therefore welcome every effort that comes into parliamentary procedure with the aim of carrying out these judgments, implementing these judgments and bringing our legislation into line with what we are required under the Constitution to bring it into line. I think that every initiative is good and that initiatives should be made despite the Interresor Group, and that solutions should be discussed, and solutions should be offered and discussed. However, I think that this huge intervention in electoral legislation, I would like to cancer, it's not good, and I think it's almost impossible to handle it in an emergency procedure. Why? The emergency procedure removes the possibility of any intervention in the proposed text, and we know that major amendments to the electoral legislation can be adopted if the possibility of talks, interventions, corrections through amendments is ensured, in order to make the solution offered as acceptable to the largest number of MPs, i.e. delegates, as possible. Secondly, I think that any solution offered on this subject would be very good, and I think it would be necessary, to deliver it to the Venice Commission for opinion, taking into account our post-opportunity obligations in the Council of Europe, and the fact that what needs to be done in the Election Law has been repeatedly shown so far that the Venice Commission appreciates both our situation, and our relations, and our request and gives us useful opinions. And the third thing, the proposed text, a group of delegates suggested that an emergency procedure be considered, however, this proposed text has even technical disadvantages which seem to me to be an obstacle to adoption. Namely, I will only set an example that the Electoral Law of the Election Unit, the primary electoral unit, at the very beginning of the Law in Article 1.1.a) position (2) is defined by an electoral unit that includes the primary electoral unit that includes municipalities, the City of Banja Luka, Brcko District, the city's electoral unit of Mostar and the city's constituencies of Mostar City, in which the total number of representatives are elected for a certain level of government and which do not have a multi-member constituency. Therefore, this provision is valid, which is not disputed in the Electoral Law, and the proposed solution proposes compensation lists in Mostar, which are intended only for multi-member electoral units. So either this should be changed or given up by a number of constituencies, i.e. compensation mandates, in the Electoral Law. I cite it as just one technical flaw. 8 For all these reasons I think it would not be good to consider this by emergency procedure, by emergency parliamentary procedure. And that's why let's say I'm against emergency procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2818	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is there anyone else here to discuss this? Then I'll sign up, if no one else answers...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2819	The word has been given to the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Bariša Čolak. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2820	It is true that it is a very important matter, no one can deny it alive, but it is equally true that we have been talking about the Election Law for a very long time, I would say intensively at the political level, at the level of the president and the narrow leadership of political parties, especially us in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is equally true that none of these proposals here relating to either election of members of the Bureau, either to the election of members, to the House of Peoples, or to the election in Mostar, are therefore not something unknown. Some of these proposals are known, not only to us, so here's who we're taking part in, who we're sitting here, uh, but to the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public for a very, very long time. So, when it comes to this observation that the gentleman, this, uh, earlier, just said, Mr. Genjac, I don't think it really stands that kind of remark. Besides, if it's some kind of technical, uh, details that can be corrected and that's, that's allowed, so, if it's an emergency procedure. However, when it comes to basic electoral units and compensatory mandates and multi-member election units, this is literally prescribed by the Election Law. So Mostar is practically a copy of the multi-member electoral units. So there's absolutely nothing controversial about it. So here's mine, my request and my request for us to go to adoption, so we're going to an emergency procedure. Of course, this does not mean that it will not be possible if we today accept this Law, that it will not be possible to invest amendments because we know well that the law must be adopted in the exact same text in both homes, this, and that there is, there is a possibility of actually ironing, possibly, different adoptions of laws in both homes. I really think that it is high time, especially for the reason that we are practically left with a deadline by the Constitutional Court, especially when it comes to this final decision on constitutionality, and about the choice of envoys for the House of Peoples, and we are obviously entering the final phase, i.e. we are entering the very end of that deadline. I think it is in everyone's interest, therefore, that as soon as possible we resolve these issues because I don't think it is useful for anyone to enter an election year with an unresolved issue of amendments and additions to the Electoral Law or that we don't have any very, very clear criteria by which elections will be held, not only, but also the election results implemented. Thank you very much. Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues. 9 I listened to the opening presentations of prominent representatives of two clubs and two peoples, as well as the top officials of the two leading parties of the Bosniak and Croatian peoples. And I have to say that I would really be even satisfied, of course, with situations like this one can't be happy, but I'm happy if this kind of argument really describes everything that's going on with this problem. If we don't have experience and we don't have eyes, I'm telling the political eyes, of course, that anyone who isn't offended, we could take this for granted. Is it a point, a particular indication of a name, whether it's an emergency procedure for Europe and things like that, but I don't think this is that simple. It is not my place to bring this problem to the end and explain it to the public because it is something that would, after all, be incorrect for me to do so, given that it is only marginally relevant to the status of the Serbian people and its representation both in the common bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the election process itself, but it is important to note that the public has the following in mind. We have entered this session of the House of Nations with an extremely unusual situation, which is that one of the key partners behind the current Council of Ministers hopes that thanks to the urgent procedure, which excludes commission work, will manage to keep this law alive until the very plenary session of the House of Peoples and then, with the help of the opposition wing of the Serbian people, adopt one such law and direct it to the House of Representatives aware that they will have their own problems. My obligation as representative of the Alliance for Change, which makes this coalition, behind this Council of Ministers, Mr Zvizdić and his associates, is therefore to the end to make one public invitation not to bring each other into this situation. If we stand behind some Council of Ministers, if we have an Interresor Working Group that is in charge of these issues, and I will remind myself that I have resigned from membership in it just knowing that there is no open political will to resolve these and other issues, then in public too, it is necessary to declare the final views of political actors so that there is no change in the electoral law until these elections, so when it comes to a member of the Presidency, for these or those reasons, it is no longer my business, or it should be accepted that this is really settled. This one-sided move by HDZ in this sense I can somehow understand, now understand and justify it very differently in this case, I can understand, but he is also talking about something else, as well as HDZ as a key representative of the Croatian people, the Croatian National Assembly, found himself in this situation without this kind of cooperation. It seems to me that representatives of the Croatian people must also have the necessary sensitivity to the key political promises of their political partners with whom they are sitting in the Council of Ministers together. If the Alliance for Change has said that we have entered this battle to fight crime and corruption, and that the fundamental law that we associate with this story is the Law on the Study of Origin of Assets, and that on this basis we have signed the European Agenda and everything else fighting for the rule of law, and this is a prerequisite to break with past times, then there must be no dilemma with any political partner, with which we support the Council of Ministers, whether this should be on the agenda first and whether it should be supported until the end. So, the minimum reciprocity in all these issues is necessary for the good political climate that should stand behind this Council of Ministers who obviously has serious movements on the European path, which among other things is a unanimous decision yesterday by the Joint Commission on European Integration in support of the report submitted by Mr Zvizdić. So there must be more co-operation, there must be more understanding, it will still have the opportunity to prove today by representatives of all the political factors that make up the support of the Council of Ministers, when it is point 7 concerning the establishment of a Commission on the Origin of Assets, this, on the agenda and hence, there will be fewer situations like this. So if we're all partners with each other we're partners, who's the opposition is, who wants to get into power about the Alliance for Change, I've told the SDS repeatedly, it's a burden to, to find himself in a situation where he's currently in position, which is to try to do something constructive, and everyone is to wolf for his feet. And the SDS didn't stick up for any chair, nor for Šarovićev, nor for Mcticeva, nor for Jovićev, nor for mine, nor for Bosic, it must be clear to everyone, but if we do the job we have to do until the end and right, because we don't fight people here, we are fighting problems here. And every man who's 10 is able to fix his behavior is welcome in that front that fights the problems in this country. That is why I believe that this emergency procedure itself has its own shortcomings which, I say, are imposed, and in this sense justify HDZ because there is no dialogue, but it will certainly not be able to fix it in this way, but will have to be re-seat by the table and determine the bill that fulfils it. I can speak of technical matters, let's say it's unacceptable for me to say that such a bill, I mean in two cantons, the possibility of representation of the Serbian people is excluded. So, as a delegate who has been elected in Republika Srpska, but I am a delegate to the Serbian people from the territory of the entire country, I represent his consistency in a certain way in this House, I can hardly accept it. I know that mathematics has its own legality, but then let's adapt mathematics to political needs and interests and let's say it's not 17 but 30 delegates are elected to this House, which requires the necessary changes to the Federation of BiH's constitution. So that we don't spin around in circles, so we don't make a crisis out of possible resolution issues and use some, we don't take advantage of the positive energy that can be behind it, here's a few things, we've absorbed these problems, whether it's a unilateral proposal from the HDZ, whether it's a unilateral response to this proposal by the SDA, whether it's our abandonment in part, then acceptance, let's see through that commission and the Interresor Working Group to do something. We apologized for saying before the start of work, and now we should start working seriously on this subject and work this out so that it doesn't be a fundamental problem for much more serious things that primarily concern the economy and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2822	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Karamatić, you've reached out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2823	Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2824	What, you're correcting something, is it, like, a guilty quote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2825	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2827	So it's not a debate, it's a correction of the wrong quote, namely, Mr. Tadić said in his address that this is a unilateral move by the HDZ. First, it is not true at all, it is not a proposal from the HDZ, this is not a proposal from the HDZ, HDZ from the '90s and HSS, this is not even a proposal from Ljilja, Zdenka, Maria, Martin and Bariša, so this is a harmonised proposal from the Croatian National Assembly. That's one correction. And the second correction concerns your part of the address that this election law is not about Srbin. As far as Srbin are concerned, here I am glad that here also representatives of the Central Election Commission, namely we all probably remember, and the SIP gentlemen must remember that circus after the elections when the respected Mr Haris, Rasim and Nermin declared themselves Srbin in the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly, and then they had problems with the CEC for another two years 11 before that were elected at the local level where they pleaded as Bošnjak. And regardless of the right of every man to define himself as he wills, you can't be Bošnjak at one level, at another level, Srbin. So this bill defines the choice of legitimate representatives of Srbin, that is, where there are reals, so here they are, I don't know, Ognjen and Jovan instead of Haris Plehe and Rasim Smajić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2828	Thank you. Eh, Mr. Tadić now has something to fix that you said. Here you go, Mr. Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2829	I accept that I was wrong when I said HDZ, it is formally about the signing of five delegates, essentially about the Croatian National Assembly. You're right. As for this other remark, of course regarding Srbin, I was talking about us here as representatives of Republika Srpska, that's one thing, and secondly, we don't hate it when there's a Mirza, Hazim or Fadil Srbin. So don't treat it that way at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2830	Thank you. Are there any more reported? Mr. Raguž applied for a hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2831	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I am motivated by the actual exposure of Mr. Ognjen Tadić, who, in some ways, gave an argument that things don't work within the parliamentary majority within the position of the Alliance for Changes from which he comes and the facts, therefore, that he resigned as an Interresor Working Group who was to prepare amendments to the Electoral Law. Now I remind all of us here when this Interresor Working Group is formed, so almost a year and a half I think. Who defended the Interresor Working Group, who has the mandate, has received a mandate from this House, to propose amendments to the Electoral Law? Secondly, I have a legitimate right to say this because I said here at the time in the way this Interresor Working Group was formed that there is no political will to enter into the fundamental change of the Electoral Law which is, in fact, the essence of all reforms in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After the Constitution, the electoral law is the most important fundamental act in every country and pushing the head into the sand further and avoiding facing these political challenges for this country means continuing agony. And nobody here says that these are ideal solutions, but the solutions that are proposed in the institution are at the highest legislative institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we are here to talk, to respect, to build new relations. And if there were five envoys of one nation, this is actually about the club, not anything else, because we're here at this table, and we're envoys in clubs, and now let all the other forms go and we look each other in the eyes, if there were five envoys of a nation, so I would if I hadn't stopped a little bit and imagined myself, here I wouldn't say I would support it, but I would have stopped a little bit and imagined it. Well, we who are in position... do not hold a candle to the HDZ in BiH about certain things, political conduct, executive authorities at the end, etc., but when there are some issues concerning the people so allow there to be a consensus. And constantly resented here the Hrvat don't know, don't know what they want, etc., so here's the institutional and clear proposal, so let's discuss, let's respect, and let's build a new dimension of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 12 So this is about having missed more than two years, and not only in this term, but also in the past Interresor Working Group... did nothing. And so the looks and the time will continue and there will be a teat to schedule the elections again and to control the election process through the election committees all the way to the CEC and that the status quo is preserved and that is the fate of this country. So let's take some responsibility, let's let the leaders go, let's let the others go, let's respect ourselves in a way, so let's open up a debate on essential issues and that, for the benefit of this country and every one of its people and every citizen and every human, we start things by not idealizing these solutions, of course. So here is the responsibility of all of you in the parliamentary majority, Mr Tadić, not just of some.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2832	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Raguž. Are there any more reported related to the procedure? If not, then I will close the debate on the matter of procedure and put it to the vote. So now we vote, ah sorry, I apologize, I didn't notice, Mr. Nović, right, applied. Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2833	On behalf of the club, I'm looking for a break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2834	I'm taking a break from 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues and fellow envoys continue. So now we are voting on the procedure, we must make it clear whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 124. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I ask you to initiate the voting mechanism so that we can plead. Therefore, from the 15 present – for there were 8, against 7, there were no abstentions. From the Federation of BiH 5 for, 5 abstentions, 5 against, pardon, there were no abstentions, from Republika Srpska 3 for, 2 against, no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, I agree that we are requesting an examination of the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 124 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, adopted. So, this law was passed by emergency procedure, it's procedure. Now I'm going to open a debate about the law itself, so the content of the law. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is anyone picking up? An envoy has signed up, Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2836	Mr. Chairman. I will refer very briefly to some of the allegations that are listed during the debate on the procedure. So, the fact is that we have really long been talking about individual solutions and 13 implementing binding decisions of the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Justice since 2009. And they talked a lot, and they looked for solutions, and they offered solutions and some solutions were, of course, rejected as unacceptable. Of course, the conversation must continue and I believe that solutions can be found. And from what we've learned from these discussions so far, I think the only thing that can be pulled out is that it takes more will to compromise and more readiness for compromises because otherwise obviously it won't be possible. Of course, this proposal of distinguished colleagues delivered today is commendable effort and, of course, it obliges others to find solutions and propose solutions. However, since we have just voted for the adoption of the Emergency Procedure Act, we should now declare the Emergency Procedure Act, on the overall content without any possibility of intervention in the text as proposed. Given that the text proposed by our assessment is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, we are... The statement and we refer to the College the declaration of the bill on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law, which is on the agenda today, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. In accordance with Article 177. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House of Proposal, namely the declaration of harmful by vital interest, signed all 5 delegates from the Club, is sufficient to sign three, so it is a legitimate proposal, we immediately submitted an explanation. I'll very briefly look back, as briefly as possible to some questions. So, the bill deals with three important issues, the issue of selecting members of the BiH presidency mainly, in most of the part concerning elections from the Federation of BiH, the issue of disputed parts of the Election Law by the Constitutional Court in connection with elections in the City of Mostar, and ultimately, disputed parts of the Electoral Law when it comes to the election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Federation. When it comes to selecting members of the Bureau, we cannot talk or find a solution without implementing the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict. I will remind you only since 2009, following a European Court of Human Rights ruling which found a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights in the light of the impediments of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to run for member of the Presidency, this one, and requested that the lack of this be removed both in the Constitution and in the Election Law. It is clear that it is not possible to remove it in the Electoral Law without removing this inconsistency in the BiH Constitution, and we have not yet solved this problem with the Constitution. It was the idea to regulate it in a way that one member of the presidency was elected from Republika Srpska, from Republika Srpska, two members of the Federation presidency, unfortunately not accepted, this should be completed later, so that this solution remains with a proposal containing a solution that essentially opposes the European Court's ruling. And not only that, I would say that, in terms of and in the context of the European Convention, this solution, if accepted, is further away from the European Convention, than the existing situation, because the election is exclusively Croatian and exclusively Bosniak member of the Presidency, so no one ostali can even be a candidate, conditioned by the support of an adequate qualification in areas which are designed almost exclusively by ethnic principle. Given this, therefore, that at the same time there is a state of judgment by the European Court without a verdict, I think that this would result in the adoption of such solutions in the foreign policy plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina in its membership in the Council of Europe, because it is a post-war commitment, on the European path, and it is harmful for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus also for the Bosniak people as one of the constituent peoples of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The next issue that the law resolves is the issue of elections in Mostar and in an effort to bring the appropriate proportions of council elections into line with the Constitutional Court's ruling, which there is no objection, but we do have a disagreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law. In Bosnia and Herzegovina's Electoral Law, Article 1.1a, in its position (2) defines constituencies. The city of Mostar and election areas in Mostar were defined as the main 14 constituencies. Where the electoral units are, there are no more election units and where there are no more members, there are no compensatory mandates. This is, therefore, one of the technical shortcomings which, which is more procedural, but more importantly, may be important to pay attention to solutions of a combination of electoral areas that really must have a sensitivity when creating interest and Bošnjak, and Srbin, and Hrvat in Mostar with the intention and aim of eliminating anyone's domination or majorisation in Mostar, which is also a commitment to the Federation's Recovery Agreement as an Annex to the Dayton Peace Agreement. When it comes to the selection of delegates in the House of Peoples, there is a proposal for a solution in order to implement the judgment, or the Constitutional Court for the appeal of Mr Ljubić and to apply mathematical principles, but also these mathematical principles are not fully consistent. I will only remind myself that in the Constitution of the Federation Chapter IV, Article 8, item (3), each canton in the House of the People of the Federation is chosen by one hrvat, one Bošnjak, one Srbin if such an MP is elected to the Canton Assembly. It's the Federation Constitution. This solution, which has been proposed, suggests that delegates are elected on a purely mathematical basis, without respecting this principle of the Constitution, so by number, by the mere number of residents in individual cantons, and as a result, it is said that Bošnjak from the Lithuanian Canton and Bošnjak from the Posavina Canton could not, for example, be elected to the House of Peoples of the Federation. There is also a question about the election of Srbin and Hrvat, for example, from Sarajevo. I note that in Canton Livno and Canton of Sarajevo, in all previous, and in Canton of Posavina, a significant number of MPs have been elected in all previous elections in the Canton Assembly of the Bosniak People. And there lives a significant percentage. Also, about 18,000 Hrvat were listed on the latest list and were also in all the Hrvat' elected elections in the Canton Assembly. This solution, if accepted, means that one significant territory with three cantons of Bošnjak could not be elected to the Federation House, and in a significant number of cantons, Hrvat could not be elected, and in a significant number of cantons could not be elected Srbin to the House of Peoples. And the intention is to satisfy some mathematical scale, this, however, the principle of the Federation Constitution has been ignored because Dom, the House of Nations is being chosen from the canton. And if changed, there would be a situation that is discriminatory and, unfortunately, a situation already ruled by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Pilav v. Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it was a complaint that Bošnjak could not be elected to the House of Peoples from the territory of Republika Srpska, from space, therefore, one area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course would follow the same situation if this were accepted. Of course, that is, you will understand, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people and that is one of the reasons why we have submitted a statement of harmfulness by vital interest. The next question, we, as we know, have a problem with the choice of Srbin, filling Srbin in the club, Srbin in the Federation Parliament in the House of Peoples. The problem was simply that in the number of delegates in the cantons, a sufficient number of Srbin were not selected. This solution suggests only the distribution of cantons but does not solve the problem that exists, does not solve unless it is again on the cantons enough Srbin. So, and this question remains unresolved because, uh, and so far, we have had the opportunity if there is not enough Srbin to choose in another one where there is one, but there was no one in the other, nor in the third, and this solution provides for the same situation, not allowing what will happen, what will happen, without solving the issue that is crucial – what if in no canton, when all cantons are added together, there is not enough of... It's a Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2837	Time, time. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2838	For the Constitution, the Constitution, here, here, I apologize, the Constitution also stipulates that only elected MPs can be elected, this, in the House of Peoples, those MPs who have been elected in the cantonal congregations. So I think that question should be solved, too, in which way, how, that's now for thinking, but mostly this solution, this proposal doesn't solve it. These are all the reasons why we, uh, filed the Declaration of Destruction in the vital interest of the Bosniak people of this Law, and I remind you at the moment when you submit, uh, the statement of the debate is interrupted and the Komsija continues the debate. And we need to appoint a committee that needs to continue to find solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2839	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Mario Karamatić, correction... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] How about now...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2841	Well, here's a esteemed fellow Genjac is a master...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2842	So let him answer, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2843	The destruction, that's what I call it in the football jargon and it's able to find a little million reasons why something can't, and I didn't hear it offer any solution to everything he said he couldn't. The Hrvat Club in this case offers a part of the solution, all that he listed can be presented in this way. Of course, it can be presented in another way. The consequence of that, as my fellow Genjac said, is that every canton, i.e. Each county appoints one of each people in the House of Peoples is that today Mirvet and Edin are sitting in the Club of the Croatians of the Federal Parliament of the House of Peoples. Of course, I don't have, as Mr. Tadić said, nothing against them being Hrvat. The consequence of the appointments also, for example from the order of the others in the Federal House of Peoples, is that in the House of Peoples, Amil, Sejo, Edin, Nemir, Rasim, Amer again I do not see Dervo Sejdić or Jakob Finci. This bill of law is an attempt to resolve the legitimate representation of the people of this country. Is he perfect? As far as I'm concerned, he's not perfect. Is the vital national interest of any people threatened by this bill? I am convinced that, unless the vital national interest of one nation is to dominate other nations and impose on them representatives, in this case it is an endangered interest in this case the most numerous. The Bosniak people, as the Genjac said. But I would also like to mention one thing, harmfully, he says, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina, no, this saves Bosnia and Herzegovina, because 16 Bakir Izetbegović is not Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Bosniak people are not Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will remind you of the principles of ZAVNOBiH that Bosnia and Herzegovina is neither Muslim in this case, meaning today Bosniak, Serbian, and Croatian, but also Croatian and Serbian and Bosniak. If we're going to make such a Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is one step in that direction, if we don't, this kind of policy, as our esteemed colleague Genjac has now explained, will bring, I'm going to explain this very briefly, there are 13 seconds left, and I hope you'll let me go for another minute after you released two of your esteemed colleagues, when, in this same respected House, a law that regulated the establishment of a Croatian channel within the Public TV service, the Bosniak People's Club has just drawn vital national interest. At the time, it was their national interest that the Hrvat do not have something, today they are doing it again. Look where you brought the public services, that's where you take Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2844	Thank you. I could of course, uh, and you could answer what Mr. Genjac said, but I'm not going to do it, I'm absolutely not going to do it. Now we're going to interrupt the debate, so we're going to call on the clubs to declare themselves individually, so this proposal to call for vital interest, that is, the destruction of this bill. We're going to have to go, they warned me that we're going to go pleading with these charts, because the system doesn't support by club statements, so you're going to have to take, uh, these charts, so which ones you're going to vote on. I will first call the Bosniak People's Club, then the Croatian People's Club and finally the Serbian People's Club. First I call the Bosniak Club, what did you want?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2845	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2846	Rules of Procedure, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2847	Please, Article 177. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There is no need... most delegates are going to the Constitutional Court.../a briefly interrupted recording/... 177. The proposed decision of the Parliamentary Assembly may be declared harmful by the vital interest of the Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian people to the majority of the votes of Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian delegates elected in accordance with Article IV 1. (a) and (b) Constitution. To make such a decision will require the consent of the House...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2849	Which, next. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2850	voted by most Bosniaks, most Croatian and most Serbian delegates who are present and who voted, you know. Now if all five...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2852	The delegate at the Bosniak Club signed that this is harmful for vital interest I don't see the need to vote because you don't have...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2853	It's always been a vote of boredom and let's do it, I mean, it's procedure, just procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2854	I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2855	I ask the Croatian People's Club to make a statement about this proposal. Thank you. So all five envoys from the Croatian people were against it. I ask the Serbian People's Club to plead on this proposal. So we have 3 that are against, 1 that is, what are you, you've been restrained whether,...we've been for? I haven't seen Mr. Tadić, he's, he's, he's, uh, he's restrained. Okay, it's enough that one club doesn't agree with this, and so we're not, two abstentions, okay, from the order of the Serbian people, here's the correction. So, we are now going to Article 178, I think, secretary, that when most, I will read it, let me – When most Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian envoys make an objection to the call to point (e) of the BiH Constitution, the President of the House immediately convenes a session of the joint committee, consisting of three envoys each of whom has been elected between Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian envoys in order to resolve the issue. If the commission fails within five days, the case is referred to, therefore, the Constitutional Court of BiH, which will examine the procedural correctness of the case by emergency procedure. In other words, now means that we should choose a three-member commission, if I have been well interpreted. I'm asking the club presidents to propose. The Bosniak People's Club. Here's the call, anyway, here comes Ljilja Zovko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2856	Bariša Čolak. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2857	Okay, thank you. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2858	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2859	Please, and you're yourself, yeah. Mr. Genjac has been proposed. So, I'm proposed, and who's proposed from the order of the Serb people?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2860	It's Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2861	Mr. Sredoje Nović. So now we have, uh, proposed, proposed three members. I am now calling on the House here to make a statement on this proposal. Please run the mechanism so we can vote. Of the 15 present – 15 were for, there were no votes against and abstentions. So, from the Federation of All 10 was for, from Republika Srpska all five were for. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So I agree that we have chosen a Joint Commission of three envoys who should now try to resolve this issue within five days. Since I'm sure there will be no consensus, I cannot therefore give consent to this, uh, I don't think there is any need to ask the other two members, I suggest, therefore, that here we just find out that we didn't agree and I suggest that the Constitutional Court of BiH be referred to this proposal as an emergency procedure in order to review the procedural correctness of the case. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, five minutes for a break? I'm giving a good break for five minutes. We're not voting on this proposal right now. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2866	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2867	Okay, thank you. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law, if he appreciates that he has needs and that he is present. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Any candidates? Mr. Genjac signed up. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2868	Mr. Chairman. I think it is necessary to draw attention to one of the solutions in the Law that will have to be improved during the procedure, we have also discussed this on the Constitutional Commission. Since it is about, we are considering the Law, therefore, in the first reading, on the principles of the Law, one of these principles that must be corrected in this Law is the solution offered to Article 28 in a way that is amended by Article 47(2) of the Law and that – Administrative and Heart Affairs of the Competent Ministry established by this Act can also be transferred to the Outer Chamber of Commerce of BiH and other institutions, and, moreover, that the regulations of the Statute (1) of this Member determine the conditions of the transfer of administrative and professional affairs to the Outer Chamber of Commerce and other institutions. This, therefore, is contrary to the Law on Administration, because this Law explicitly requires that public authority institutions can only be entrusted with certain administrative and professional tasks under the authority of the Authority. In addition, the solution is not sufficiently clear and opens up the possibility of different interpretations, it does not define the tasks of the competent ministry that can be transferred to the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions, nor is it clear what other institutions are. I draw attention to this because we have discussed this for a long time on the Constitutional Commission for the reason that the competent ministry has this in mind when we propose amendments to remove this, this, this incorrection, that they bear in mind and we announce the amendment in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2869	Thank you. Are there any more reported? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2870	No microphone 21
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2871	And you... you did sign up. Here you go, Mr. Radončić. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2872	I only have one unusual suggestion here whether or not we should vote on any law, a proposal if the promoter is not there. I really think that the House of Nations should safeguard its dignity and that this point I propose is delayed until the proposings appear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2873	Thank you. Is there more? So now we have a situation like this, we have a proposal from Mr. Radončić that we should put on the agenda, so, excuse me, to come forward before the very statement of the law in the first reading, if I understand correctly. Here comes Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2874	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2875	Five minutes off. Okay, okay, five minutes off. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. So we had a proposal to declare, Mr. Radončić, that his proposal was not to come forward today because we didn't have a representative of the ministry. We now have a secretary of the ministry if it changes anything or if someone else wants to take a word while the debate is open. Mr. Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2877	Thank you. However, I apologize, since we've been looking for a five-minute break on behalf of the Club, namely what I've handled, we have an extremely high-quality law in full, long-made, large-scale law, and that's kind of time-defined. On the other hand, Mr Radončić's very principled request, since there is no, uh, minister or deputy minister to postpone the debate. However, we have talked and everyone will vote according to their definition, and I think we also respect the fact that the Secretary of the Council of Ministers is present here. Of course, it would be good, in my opinion, to try this law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2878	Thank you. 22 Now I have only one question, shall we put this proposal of yours, Mr. Radončić, to a statement? Shall we?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2879	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2880	All right, all right. Come on, please run the decision-making mechanism. We vote on Mr. Radončić's proposal not to plead today, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2881	No, no, we vote to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2882	Here you go, Mr. Nović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2883	...no microphone... present, and this time it seems to me to be the secretary of the ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2884	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2885	Thank you, Mr. Radončić. I get it. He's giving up his proposal. So, we should now declare on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on international and inter-entity road transport in first reading. Of the present 15 – for it was 14, against none, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, against no one, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and without abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on international and inter-entity road transport was adopted in the first reading. We're going to the point of five today's agenda, and that's it, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: Parliamentary Parliament House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1105/17, of 24.03.2017, with Opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill, so Article 103. Rules of Procedure. First, there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector, the Constitutional Commission and the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The legislative and legal sector 23 has established that the proposal for a law is partly in line with the provisions of Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and that it is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the bill was in line with the constitutional and legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The commission also concluded that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH must be obtained from the committee responsible by obtaining the opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships did not accept the principles of the bill. The commission adopted and proposed the adoption of the following conclusion to the House: – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Management Board of BHRT to urgently approach the realization of the conclusions adopted by the House of People at the 12th and 13th session held on 10.12.2015 and 30.12.2015, respectively. At its 38th session, held on 30.11.2016, the House of Representatives adopted the draft law in a second reading together with three amendments. I give the word to Mr. Nebojša Radmanović, chairman of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Radmanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2887	Ladies and gentlemen. He's got it all written down almost in his opinion, but I'm still asking for a few sentences to be said about this topic. This House and the Commission, which we are talking about, are certainly the authorities that paid the most attention to Bosnia and Herzegovina's TV system in the past two years. Unfortunately, we had to realize yesterday that those who were to do nothing did nothing, and that, independently of the Commission, Mr Nović said in the introduction, almost the same conclusion that the Commission found yesterday. So it is absolutely amazing that the executives are doing nothing at all, and not only do they not listen in this case to the House of Peoples, but they are not taking care of vital things in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why this is the conclusion. The truth is, that's not why I called to repeat it, but to say how we came to vote. You have also seen that this conclusion, which was actually the earlier conclusion of the House, was made by a vote of 4:1. We voted in another way when it came to the bill. That's the Commission, she didn't support the bill, she voted 1-1-3, because we simply show the inability to resolve this issue. All of our demands, all of our views, and this House and the Commission, have been completely ignored by the ministries and the Council of Ministers as a whole. Our opinion is that there is no point in changing and extending this one member of the law every year because agony is getting bigger. And that is why this is the attitude, and that is why it is our people's proposal to support the Commission's position, that is to say, not to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2888	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Karamatić has applied for a hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2889	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 24 Well, here, this is, teaching that story just now, just one example of how some ad hoc solutions are trying to give the public an apparent way, an illusion that someone is taking care of the Public TV system, so we have a proposal from a respected colleague who was adopted in the House of Representatives in a way that none of the legitimate representatives of Srbin and Hrvat in the House of Representatives gave a vote for this Law. So it was adopted in a way that was harshly revoted. Furthermore, as the esteemed colleague Genjac spoke earlier about certain shortcomings of that Transport Act, which we had just discussed, I would remind all of us here that there are two rulings of the Constitutional Court that this way the subscription cannot be collected. So, there's a Constitutional Court ruling that, unless it's a communal service, they can't make a two-service bill. I believe most in this Chamber believe that public service is not a utility service, that I don't use harder qualifications. That's one thing. We have a ruling from the Federation Constitutional Court that anyone who has not paid under this Law cannot carry out the commission on him for the reason that he is unlawfully charged. This kind of subscription is contrary to the Law on Liabilities and to the Consumer Rights Act. And third, by chance, and I believe that if we adopt this law today he does not help the Public Service, but only partially prolongs the agony, because regardless of what comes to the accounts of telecoms people to pay or not to pay, they are not obliged to pay. I'll try to explain to the public how they're not obliged to pay and in what way. As far as public services are concerned, here is an appeal to all colleagues, and I hope that there will be no vital national interest, within a few days when the proposal of the Croatian National Assembly comes into the procedure in this or the House of Representatives, which fully regulates the financial sustainability of public services, impartially, timely and true information, in a way that all people in this country are satisfied with public services, because it is no secret that the existing public service organisation of the Croatian people is not and cannot be satisfied. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2890	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Raguž applied for a discussion. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2891	Thank you. Well, I would just like to remind us here of the fact, therefore, that the Management Board of the Public TV System has the mandate to self-organize the method of payment, by law, and here only by this legal solution wants to extend the current method of payment. The current method of collection, according to what we have in the analysis, does not cover even 30% of the collection of the subscription as it should. So that system is... and here it extends his, suggests his extension... So, we have Parliament being involved in the work of those who should do their job, which Parliament has appointed, and Parliament has appointed, to remind again little that they are ruling. That's why I called in my word. So, they are not doing their job, and then Parliament is involved in a failed form, an extension of the failed form of the collection of funding, and not looking for a sustainable model of financing. If there was a sustainable model of funding here before us, I'd be the first to raise my hand, I don't care about the government or the opposition. Is that incasant, is that a bill for electricity, is it something that will ensure stable funding, that this is it, I would say yes, but unfortunately I have to say, and we've witnessed, the practice shows that it's not that. And no solution is sought, agony continues. And please give us that these conclusions, what Mr. Radmanović rightly warned, which Mr. 25 Nović has opened through the question, are the fact, therefore, that this House has had a thematic debate on this subject, that it has reached its conclusions and that, past these conclusions, two years later, we have proposed solutions for which we have held the debate and reached conclusions. So let us respect at least our own dignity, that we seek the responsibility of those in charge. It's the Council of Ministers, brother, and the Ministry. Let us propose together with the Governing Board a sustainable model so that we can raise our hands, here, already at the next session, and move into a fundamental reform that will remove any politicisation, this, and the house, to allow people to do their job as best they know and can, to have technical and other assumptions, but to ensure plurality and language, and culture, and content, which is important to this country, and to finally give this service a guideline to all of us, and to impose one critical pattern on us how we should behave and act, and not to try to preserve something that is impossible to preserve. This will just keep going... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2892	Thank you. Correction of the wrong quote or something, Mr. Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2893	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's not quite true that, the board of directors has appointed the ruling one. I would like to remind that the public service in Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of three components. One is BHT, one is Republika Srpska's TV and one is Federal Television. So, federal television hasn't had a board of directors in years and has an illegal V.D. Director. So it's an institution that goes beyond all laws, beyond all regulations exists and exists, and isn't in this system at all. So, if we're going to solve a public service problem in this case, we should also appoint a Federal Television Management Board to choose a director, not a V.D. who he named, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, who he knew, and who he knew, who he Individuals also know very well why there is no board of directors and who does not allow anyone to enter federal television, because that television is exclusively in the service of a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2894	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Mr. Raguž, have you called again? Yes, it is. Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2895	So, I was talking about the Management Board at the level of the Public TV system..., I wasn't talking about the Federal, this is probably all exactly what Mr. Karamatić says, but it can't stand his assessment that the ruling didn't appoint the Management Board that I'm talking about. I stand by that grade and that grade is correct, and it cannot be questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2896	Thank you. 26 I don't see any more reports for discussion, so right now I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We should be making a statement about two things right now. First on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections and second on the conclusion of this Committee as well. First I'm going to put their opinion to the vote, and their opinion is that, therefore, that the opinions that are not, that this law is actually not, uh, negative opinion in terms of principle, here. So we vote first on Opinion, then the conclusion. You can run the voting mechanism. Out of the 15-10s present there were for, against them were 4, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH, there were – 5 for, 4 against and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. Therefore, Article 104(3) — if Dom...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2897	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2898	Sorry, paragraph (2) – if the House accepts the Opinion, we have accepted the Opinion, therefore, the Constitutional Commission or the competent committee referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article shall be deemed to be rejected. It's just an explanation. Let's go to the next one. Now we'll get to the bottom of this. Conclusion, should we read it again? Here, I will read again – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Communications and Transport and the Management Board of BHRT to urgently approach the realization of the conclusions adopted by the House of People at the 12th and 13th session, held on 10.12.2015 and 30.12.2015 respectively. So, I am now giving this proposal a conclusion on the plea. You can run the voting mechanism. Of the present 15 – for there were 12, against none, 3 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 7 for, versus and no one, 3 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, there were no votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I konstatirati that the conclusion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples has been adopted. We're going to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH (first reading) – Proposer: The Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-652/17, of 24.03.2017. This is the first reading of the bill, so the article is 103. Rules of Procedure. First, there is a debate on the need for adoption and the principles on which the proposal for a law is based. You have received the Opinion of the Legislative Sector and the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The legislative and legal sector has established that the proposal for a law is partly in line with the provisions of Article 27 95. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples and that it is in line with the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional committee of the People's House found that the draft law was in line with the constitutional and legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina and supported the principles of the bill. I give my word to Mr. Genjac, the chairman of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2900	As it was written in the Report, however, there were at the same time two laws, the Law amending the Law on Payments and the Law amending the Labour Act on the same matter. I see today on the agenda only the Labour Act,... There you go. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2901	Okay, well, thank you. I'll open the debate now, so we'll probably get an explanation of what you're looking for. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present and if he has needs. There isn't. I'm opening a debate now. Is anyone picking up? Ljilja Zovko has already answered. Here you go, Mrs. Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2902	Thank you very much. Well, there are no proposings, and we can discuss it, and I've come to the same question exactly as this is the Law which... is in the set, the Labour Act and the Law on Change of Payments in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law on the amendment of salaries is in the Committee on Finance and is waiting for us to get a report on which positions, or jobs, are related to the abolition of the jubilee prize, so that they know what consequences we can have if we adopt such a decision. And my suggestion was that, we have here and I have prepared a conclusion to share with my colleagues and colleagues, to adopt the conclusion that we are not discussing, to postpone the debate and the discussion until we have both this information and the opinion of the Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2903	Thank you, Mrs. Zovko. Just a little clarification, I don't think there's this other one, this question that Mr. Genjac asked is because it required an extension of time, as far as I know, this one. So that's for this conclusion that you said he wasn't on the agenda today. And as far as this law is concerned, I think we have a proposal here, there's the Deputy Minister. But, here, is there anyone else to answer for? ...so reported, I'll conclude the debate. If I understand you well, colleague Zovko, your proposal is not to declare ourselves today about this Act until, but to be along with this Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Is that right or not, just explain it one more time. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2904	The conclusion should be – The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH postpones its statement on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of BiH (first reading) – the Proposer: The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, Law No: 02-02-1-652/17, of 24.03.2017, until the Committee for Finance and Budget of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH delivers Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – the Proposer: The Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-653/17, of 24.03.2017, since the proposed laws treat the same matter and should be declared at the same session. Here, please make this...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2905	Thank you. You heard the suggestion of a conclusion. So now that I've closed the debate, no more candidates to discuss, we're going to get to the bottom of this proposal for a conclusion that you've just heard. You can run the voting mechanism. Out of the 15 – for it was 12, there were no votes, therefore, no votes, abstentions of 3 votes. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, without votes against and 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, we've adopted this conclusion, now it's become a conclusion. So, we're not going to make a statement today on the bill's proposal, but we're going to go to the next item on the agenda, that's, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of Debts in BiH institutions, issue: 01-34-11959/16, dated 04.05.2017. You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group on the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of Persons in BiH Institutions. At its 33rd session, held on 19 July 2016, the House of Representatives adopted the Conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group for the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of the Officials' Property in BiH Institutions. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Mrs. Džambas checked in. Here you go, Mrs. Džambas.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2907	I welcome you, especially my colleagues from the B Club, because somehow we haven't met on these breaks. As far as the story of the Interresor Working Group is concerned, Mr Tadić told us best that it sucks. So, we had an interresorni Working Group for Election Law which, I don't know, I've never heard of meeting. There's always a lack of quorum, there's no interest, there's no law, and that's how we go in, this is our third year in the House, and there's no story about the Electoral Law. I guess it's also going to end... about what she's talking about if you don't know 29 what you're going to form a commission. So I don't think there's any need to form this Interresor group, especially since there's a criminal law that says beautifully how and how those who have acquired some property should be hunted in some way, I don't know which. We've all handed over our charts, there's everything that we've got, who's going to look into it, whether someone's going to check me out, and then all the other colleagues, I don't even have the right to interfere with it, which means, on the side of the court or the prosecution, who, by the way, we certainly don't have any influence there. So there's even a way here and a way... taken away by property, so let everyone do their job. There's nothing... An interrestrial task force to work if someone has to do it legally. So, I'm against forming an interresorial that won't do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2908	Thank you, Mrs. Džambas. Mr. Tadić has a wrong quote to correct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2909	So it's not disputed to interpret, it's not disputed to paraphrase, but when the author is present, it's always best to quote. So, I'm not saying that they suck at this task force, I'm saying...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2910	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2911	I did not even mention the word "no relationship", I was talking about an example when there is irresponsible behaviour towards a serious issue such as amending electoral legislation. This unserious behavior becomes an additional problem when it is the inter-paradise of those political entities behind the executive authority, motivated by national or other reasons, each of them tells himself what makes him who he is. So, just in that sense, correcting the wrong assumption wouldn't even occur to me to say that any work by parliamentarians sucks. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2912	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Rodić signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2913	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to say a little differently not to fall into this trap of quoting or paraphrasing, I'm going to say my opinion and attitude. Since we've got this on the agenda today, so this meeting of the House of Peoples, and I personally think that this is driven to day-political purposes so that we can talk about something and discuss, I suggest something else. I am also against the formation of an Interresor Working Group but I think it is the right thing to propose it to the Council of Ministers, to support the majority in this House and we have the law. Thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2914	Thank you. Mr. Karamatić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to offer answers, I'd like to ask a few questions for all of us here. We have the SIPA Investigation and Protection Agency, Federal, Cantonal, Republika Srpska, Brcko District, we have after this point a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, we also have the Commission's report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. It's an army sick, it's an army, I don't see the point of forming another commission with so many institutions operating in this country. Let's be honest and let's just say that all of this has gone down like a map tower and that this country of ours should start making me heal, that this isn't something good. So if all these institutions that I mentioned are doing their job, we definitely don't need this. If we need this, here's an esteemed colleague, Ognjen Tadić, convinced that something should be wrong in this country and that fat, fat thing is wrong, then institutions are not doing their job. So let's have a little more fun about the repressive apparatus doing its job, I don't know, that the cantonal or entity ministers of the MUP are starting to do their job, that the Department of Security is starting to blush their business. Do you know how many police agencies we have on this particular subject? Convinced 100% no one in this hall can count them all, they'll drop at least one. So we have the most extensive repressive apparatus by name at least, we have, I don't know, a forensic research agency that's highly equipped, top-of-the-line, and it can do anything except what's in its name, so it can't do forensic tests. If it's a blood defect, they can't analyze whether it's the blood of whoever committed it. My people, if you'll excuse the expression, we're making a joke out of this country. Don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2916	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? I can't see. I will now, therefore, conclude, close the debate on this agenda point. Now, if I understand Mr Rodić correctly, his suggestion is to prepare this bill for us by the Council of Ministers. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, that's the suggestion, we have to get to the bottom of it now, so we'll... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2920	Of course what I suggested, I mean. If there is a stable government, a stable Council of Ministers, this is the idea of someone representing the government at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina can provide the majority, the Council of Ministers prepares the law and votes and that is it. I think it's better than the Interresor Working Group, since we have experience with interresor working groups. I wasn't at the previous, uh, previous agenda point I wanted to report around the Electoral Law, but if we had any interresor working groups we had at that Law. Here, I've been remembering for the last five or six years, and I know what's been going on, and I'm not optimistic about this law, either, that we're going to come up with a quality solution, and that's why I think it's better to go institutionally and get to the right solution, and then we're going to see what it is. And I'm also joining Mr. Karamatić, and today no one is stopping anyone from investigating anyone. We have enough legal solutions, that's never questionable. So I don't know what would be the purpose of this Interresor task force.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2921	Thank you. Mr. Tadić came to me with some kind of injury. Come on, come on in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2922	So different situations can be amazing. Most can decide whether there is a Bog, there is no Bog and other things, but whatever you do, you cannot avoid saying about the proposal of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, because that is the point of the agenda. So, you can assign svet Jovan the Krstitelj, svet Petar, Alija the Pejgamber.Whomever you want to deal with this issue, but in the end, you must again declare the proposal of the House of Representatives. You can also decide that you don't want to plead on this issue, to finish this item on the agenda, but that's your way of saying this. So I will not invite you to your seriousness, you are obliged to take care of your dignity and seriousness. But the point is, you know, when you have a problem, uh, dignity. Let's see who...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2923	Thank you, Mr. Tadić. Mr. Rodić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2924	What was I not clear about? Of course, I said I'd plead, in my first address I said what my position was about this and I'm ready to vote. So I don't know what's there or what's the question of dignity. 32/Shortly no video.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2925	Mr. Raguž answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2926	Correction of the wrong allegation regarding what is an honourable envoy, Mr Tadić said that we can decide whether there is a Bog or not. I refuse... the possibilities and those... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2927	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2928	I'll, uh... I'll do business to explain to us now whether we can make a statement first on Mr. Rodić's proposal and then on this or not. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, so I don't interpret the Rules of Procedure myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2929	Thank you. First, it needs to be concluded whether it is a proposal to conclude and whether to prepare it in writing, and secondly, to vote first on material, as well as on the law and on decision and on everything, and then to vote on conclusions, because I did not realize that this is a proposal for a conclusion on which delegates should be made known. Here, let the delegate explain. _________(?) ...to vote for, against, see who it is, what it is and let's move on. It is possible to vote on the conclusion of the vote, too, is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2931	And after that, vote what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2932	Okay, you heard, uh, the interpretation of our secretary. He appreciates that we should first, or interpret the Rules of Procedure, that we should first make clear on the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group, that is his opinion, and then on this second proposal. That's how I understood you. All right, I am giving the proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of an Interresor Working Group on the Construction of the Law on the Study of the Origin of Assets of Officials in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina to vote. So of the 15 present – 8 was for, versus 7, abstention was no one. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, against 4, there were no abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, 3 against, there were no abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. 33 If you allow me to now conclude that we have adopted this conclusion with the fact that, in my opinion, it is irrelevant to vote on this second conclusion. I think Mr. Rodić agrees with that. Thank you very much. /Shortly interrupted video/ My colleagues and colleagues, here I have, uh, a proposal from my colleagues to take a break for about half an hour. Is it, then, that we don't decide for ourselves, is that acceptable to you? _________(?) ...you did well today. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2937	...the previous points we adopted the conclusion of formation, but we didn't name the composition.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2938	We'll do it next time. Neither are those at the House of Representatives. We didn't miss anything, don't worry. Let's move on. 34 So, I can't see, I don't see the need for a debate, so I'm closing the debate right now. We will now vote on the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency for 2016 and the conclusions proposed in the Report. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Vote now. So of the 13 present - 8 were for, against no one, abstentions 5. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority because from the Federation there was – 6 for, no one against.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2939	Rodić advertises the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2940	Oh, I'm sorry. We'll repeat the plea. So of the 13 present – 8 were for, without votes against, 5 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, there were no votes against, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against and 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that the 2016 report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Coordination Agency was adopted with the conclusions contained in the Report. We're going to the ninth point of today's agenda, Ad. Nine. Report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the Parliamentary Assembly for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-14-695/17, dated 10.03.2017. You have received a report on the work of the Commission on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption for 2016. The House of Representatives adopted the Report at its 44th session held on 20.04.2017. I give my word to the Chairman of the Report, if he is present, and if he has any needs. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the report on the work of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Of the 13 present – 8 were for, against 1, abstention 4. From the Federation of BiH – 6 for, 1 against, 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, without a vote against, with 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing a report on the work of the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2016 was adopted. The tenth item of the agenda, 35 Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Ombudsman of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016, issue: 01.02,03-10-725/17, from 15.03.2017.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2946	Ladies and gentlemen. Here is another important topic for all in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here is another situation where executive power is doing almost nothing to address serious issues when this House pays full attention. I say one more because two points ago, we talked about such an important topic and an ignoring relationship between the government. As the chairman noted seven months ago, this House found conclusions, I gave myself tasks and asked the Ministry to do some work. Aware of the importance of the topic and who should prepare all this Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Communications and the rest has made an important effort to do this job properly. In the function of preparing the Commission's session, and several of them, it is worth the work of the Secretariat and we are sometimes obliged to commend the people who work hard in this building, who are not seen at all and who no one ever looks at, except when the vital national interest is launched. We have prepared a thematic session involving five members of the Commission, the sixth rightly was absent and managed to provide almost all relevant people who decide on agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, they were representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, they were representatives of the agriculture ministries of both entities, of all cantons, were from administrations dealing with this problem, from relevant farmers' associations throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we had a really good debate. We wanted to show how this House could do something and try to force executives to make serious moves. After the debate, which was full of this hall, the Commission further summed up the debate twice and reached conclusions read by the chairman. I think we should adopt them, and I hope that we all make sure that these conclusions don't go as others, or that no one takes care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2947	Thank you, Mr. Radmanović. Mr. Karamatić has applied for a hearing. So, first of all, I open the debate, and then I give my word to Mr. Karamatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's all like the Chairman of the Committee said. I answered, I'm not going to talk so much about the thematic session, I've volunteered to appeal to us all to get us more actively involved in the problems that our primary agricultural producers face, regardless of the cultivation of plants or animals. Namely, what's going on? We had a year ago, two catastrophic floods that devastated both Posavina and Semberia and threw those producers on their knees. We had colds a few days ago that I would have compared with cataclysm as far as Herzegovina and central Bosnia are concerned. On Monday, now that there will be a session of the House of Representatives, the tenth I think, they should have been the Days of Young Potato in Ljubusko and 39 extremely this year will not be because the complete crop destroyed the frost. It's complete. Vineyarding in Herzegovina is the least common word. Malinisation in central Bosnia has suffered catastrophic damages that question whether people who have been actively doing this, who have lived very well, will ever be able to recover. After these colds, similar to what we had from Posavina and Semberia one big migration out of our country from people who no longer saw perspectives, failed to recover from that blow, I expect that we will also have a new wave of people leaving from Herzegovina with the whole families. And I think that as members of the highest legislative body in the country, we need to focus more seriously on this, and I don't think that these conclusions should remain a dead letter on paper. I think we need to sort out some legal solutions. In fact, if I tell you that, I don't know, in the European Union on the market of developed countries a kilo of veal costs 12 - 12.5 euros, I'm talking about a purchase price, it means a wholesale price, and if we are being imported at a price of 1.5 - 2 euros, I assure you that this is not about fresh meat. If we have a situation, last night I was with a grower who has butchers, here and here in Sarajevo, and in East and here, and I'm asking him how much the price of cattle live scales is, since the calf is at the market today. It says 6.5 to 7 marks. So how can there be veal at big malls at action 6.99? Where's the waste, where's the skin, where's everything, so I'm talking about a live scale. It can't be. If you take it, we've made it out of our copycats, so our producers just can't bring out the market competition that comes from third-world countries. I note, we imported 21.850 tonnes of cows and pigs in 2015. Where are the chickens? So over 30,000 tonnes were imported to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've got two customs freezers. Can physically 30,000 tons fit into two customs freezers that receive 2, 3, 5 tons of maximum meat? I assure you I can't. Did you know that Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the largest importers of ice? What does that have to do with agriculture? Well, it has to do with agriculture. If you have, I don't know, some old girl in the neighborhood usually has that little puppy, that little dog, watch him and pet him and go to the mall now buy a salami that says 800 grams – 1,80, chicken salami, and give it to that dog they spoiled, who eats nice, I assure you that they'll just smell it and leave it behind. Do you know why? Because there's no meat in that salami. It's about dry ice and genetically modified soybeans, which is sad. So, a can of dog food, anywhere look, at any farm pharmacy, costs between 6.90 and 7.5 marks because it has meat in it, and it's exactly 780 grams all with that can. And we here allow 800 grams of salami to be paid to our children at 1.80, 1.90. So you better feed the dogs in this country than the people. We can't let that happen anymore. And it's not just a task for us, it's a task and the Ministry of Foreign and Trade Relations, and the Ministry of Finance, and entity ministries. Furthermore, we had one legal solution in which in our shops, in the malls, it doesn't matter if it's about Lidl, Robot, Skafi, Konzum, it doesn't matter which, where it was legally defined that 40% of domestic products, declared domestic products, must be on shelves. And we instead of insisting, first we get out of here, then lower levels, and legislative and executive authorities to insist on it, we abolished that regulation. No Niko's ever done a background check on 40% of the domestic product. So we shut it down, now it's gone. We can't do that kind of thing. We must not allow ourselves to, I don't know, importers of meat cannot bring live cattle into Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they have to pay for the levies, so they come out too expensive. And what did we do with it? I'll tell you what, we've made our importers drive to the bull's slaughterhouses, I don't know, in Vrgorac, into Slavonski Brod, where these animals are processed in all the ways they need to and after that they are imported to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we instead of 20 people working in a slaughterhouse have two men working on a fork that just unloads it. We must not allow ourselves to, here, continue on this story about the Public TV Service and the Election Law, that in the Western-Herzegovina County, in Herceg-40 Bosnia and Herzegovina-Neretva County, no federal incentives have yet been paid for 2014, while in other counties they have been paid for 2016. We can't let that happen. They're our producers. And I say, once again I appeal to, here, all of us here to have a little more fun on this overly serious subject, to find the possibility after the catastrophic floods that we've had, after the colds that we've had this year to allow our farmers to work. We cannot give them the subsidies the European Union gives them but we can at least allow them here to have a blue diesel on which there will be no 64 or 85 fencing excise. So let's not yell at them yet when we don't give them regular incentives. The number of percentage incentives Bosnia and Herzegovina singles out for agriculture is ridiculous as long as the European Union countries are looked at. And we're all here to say the European way has no alternative. Well, of course we can't, I don't know, subsidize a liter of milk with two euros, but we can do what we can. And then we will avoid the trap that our importers import the milk powder that has been standing there for 20 years in silos, in that milk powder the water from the tap and here it is, it says – a domestic product. Well, it's not a domestic product. Let's try to protect those primary producers, those who have live cattle, who are trying to plant something to grow on this earth. If we continue this way, I assure you, perhaps not on this election cycle, but another, two, three election cycles, that the elections in this country will look only the elected officials that voted for themselves, because they will no longer have anyone to vote on. So the basis on which this country can rest is precisely agriculture, the production of healthy food, mostly unpolluted areas, without heavy metals, without, and when they mention heavy metals would be good, it would be great, and that exists already in the legal regulations, meat imported from imports to be tested on heavy metals. We have a situation today when we import meat to pass and then he says we'll be there in 14 days. He already put it on the shelves, sold it or sent it into processing. And then when you come to test says where it is, he slaughtered the calf an hour ago, here he says, and that's all right, and that's a lot of heavy metal, there's a lot of poison, there's a lot of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2949	Thank you. Mr. Raguž applied for a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2950	Well, first of all, I think that dom has fulfilled that obligation he has made to carry out a serious debate on a very demanding and serious subject, and I would say, therefore, that what it says in the report is true, but it is not enough again to reflect the real weight of the situation in this sector that I would say is alarming. And here's very short, just three things I want to say. As the state responds to this situation, the state thinks of all levels of government, the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the level of entities, the level of Brcko, the level of counties, etc.? So Bosnia and Herzegovina singles out the total at all levels of 150m euros annually for encouragement. When we take total separations, that's 3%. When we take the fact, then the sixteenth comparatively on the fifteenth 18% less isolated than the year before, and we all swear in campaigns we go agriculture priority and, uh, the relationship when concrete measures and adoption of the budget come, the definition of incentives in just one year goes almost 20% less. When we view this comparatively, Bosnia and Herzegovina stands out 50 euros per hectare, Croatia is already neighbouring as much as 350 and the European Union is not talking, close to 500 euros. And how will our manufacturer deal with that competition? How? 41 In addition to all that we have heard, you take on this very common elemental serious accident, drastically, meaning the destruction of the total potential that these people put on each year, there is a complete lack of perspective in the sector that should be in some way the strength of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here's to not going with that data, I just want to say the following. Where could we act? Here, we know, therefore, that Bosnia and Herzegovina does not have direct jurisdiction when it comes to agriculture, but who is preventing us from adopting strategies? You don't need a new ministry... so you don't need a new ministry, but I mean, I hear you well, so you're also ruling when this is a question, you have this Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, right? You could protect against unfair competition and assume political responsibility that a truck from Bosnia and Herzegovina does not pay duty-free tariffs more than 10% when it crosses the border in Croatia or Serbia. Here, just do it, don't need a strategy, don't need a change of jurisdiction, we're gonna help these people a lot. So that's what happens, ask every producer of ours how much the truck pays one when they cross here one of those... that's all I'm talking about, not talking about other things, not talking about quality control in a health sense. Well, let's put in charge of our inspections here, so I can help a lot of people with what Mario was talking about, so, very unskilled and non-transparently imported agricultural goods are sort of being placed on our market, and nothing deserves domestic production, potentials. Here, these are some things, I actually answered, uh, just to say that we don't have to stay as the House of Peoples on this one, but that we should monitor at least every three months the realization of these conclusions, invite the competent and at least one part of your responsibility in this matter to maintain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2951	Thank you. I don't see any more reports. I'm closing the debate. We will now vote on the conclusions of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. Prepare to plead. You can vote. Of the 14 present – 13 were for, against none, one was abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, no one against, no one abstention, from Republika Srpska – 4 for, without a vote against, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I am establishing the conclusions of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships of the House of Peoples have been adopted. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report on the establishment of a candidate ranking for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal – applicant: Temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeal, issue: 01,02-50-14-389-6,5/17, of 03.05.2017. At the 41st session of the House of Representatives, held on 18.01.2017, and the 26th session of the House of People, held on 01.02.2017, adopted the Conclusion on the establishment of the Temporary Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the 42nd meeting of members of the Office for the Review of Appeals appointed from the House of the Peoples by Darko Babalj, Zdenka Džambas and Safet Softić. The temporary joint commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes at its 6th session, held on 27 April 2017, established and delivered the House of Representatives and the People's House of Report on the establishment of a ranking list of candidates for the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals. In line with the proposal for a ranking of successful candidates for appointments submitted by the Interim Joint Committee of both homes today, we need to declare the appointment of a member of the Board of Appeals. I give the word to Mr Softić, the chairman of the Interim Joint Committee, the rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if he appreciates it. There's no need. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the appointment of the first candidate from the ranking of the Interim Joint Commission to both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the procedure of appointing a member of the Board of Appeals. Of the 14 present – for it was 9, against none, abstentioned 5. From the Federation of BiH – for 7 against no one, 2 abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 2 for, without votes against and 3 abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree for a member of the Office for Appeals... an expert in the field of public procurement, transport and strategic business management from the Federation of BiH has been appointed Sanela Salihović. There is still agreement on the agenda for ratification of agreements, protocols and conventions. I propose that we bring together the debate and the statement on points 15 to 22, including item 22 of the agenda. Here I am going to open a debate on this proposal. If there are no reports, then I'm closing the hearing. Now we're voting on this proposal I just made. Of the 14 present – for there were 13, no votes against, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 8 for, without votes against and 1 abstention, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. So, this motion for unifying the debate has been adopted so now we're going on, let's move on. Ad. 15 - 22. Giving consent to ratification of agreements, protocols and conventions
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2954	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it doesn't seem like I'm just criticizing that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the state as a state are doing nothing. They're working on certain questions, namely, I'd refer to point 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Migration Species of Wildlifes, which is still there in '79. Signed, and here's Bosnia and Herzegovina will finally ratify it and it's probably a small step for the planet, but big for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Namely, after finally protecting dolphins in Bosnia and Herzegovina last year and the whales are now ratified by the agreement, however, it gives some obligations to Bosnia and Herzegovina so that it is important to give, so other than us protecting these migrant species of wild animals and we will not bother them to pass, it is important to meet the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is forbidden to capture these species. So if someone accidentally sees an albatross or gazelle, a gorilla, don't accidentally catch him, so people need to be educated. There is also a possibility of confusion, so crocodiles are also forbidden to catch, but with alligators there is no problem. Well, here, it wouldn't be bad, maybe we could form an ad hoc commission, see if it's fashionable right now, so we can educate our citizens who are the difference between an alligator and a crocodile so that people don't get confused, so Bog forbid we break such an important convention so that Bosnia and Herzegovina has problems on the international side. I don't know if I'd have, since here I still haven't been able to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs anything, but I'm saying it wouldn't be bad to educate our citizens, meaning what animals they can't catch, which they can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-05-04-0.u2955	Thank you, Mr. Karamatić. I don't see any more charges for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on granting consent to ratification of the agreements, protocols and conventions referred to in points 15 to 22, including item 22 of the agenda. Of the 14 people present, all 14 were for, therefore, without votes against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 9 for, without votes against and abstentions, from Republika Srpska – 5 for, without votes against and abstentions. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements, protocols and conventions referred to in points 15 to 22, including item 22 of the agenda. This concludes the work of the 28th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. You will be notified of the appointment and maintenance of the new session. Thank you. Session completed at 16:05 p.m.
