ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19129	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 50th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives, distinguished guests, at today's session, the 50th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives were called: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by representatives: Nenad Lalić, Denis Bećirović and Zaim Backović, and the delay was announced by representatives: Monika Tomić and Asim Sarajlić. According to the Service's information, 35 representatives are present at the moment. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. We are moving on to the agenda of today's session. As for the change and addition of the session's agenda, I would like to point out the following. At the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the following points 3. Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight – Proposer: Temporary Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure Proposal for a Law on Parliamentary Oversight, issue: 01,02-02-1-1348/17 since 26.05.2017 (second reading). Point 9. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-1-1074/17, from 21/04.2017 (first reading). Point 10. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Denis Bećirović, Law No: 01-02-11503/17, since 15.06.2017 (first reading). Point 13. Report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016 – applicant: BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-16-1-1596/17, as of 03.07.2017, removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Finance and Budget. Point 17. The granting of consent for the ratification of the Loan Agreement (the Employment Support Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material 2 issue: 01,02-05-2-1546/17, dated 22.06.2017, removed from the agenda at the request of the Commission for Foreign Affairs. On a proposal from the Commission for Transport and Communications, it was added to the agenda on the basis of the decision of the Extended College: Point 13. Recommendations from the conference "National Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held in Sarajevo on 13th and 14.06.2017, issue: 01/5-29-1341/17, since 21.07.2017. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Representative of Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19130	I am taking the opportunity to welcome the College of the House of Representatives, other colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and others present here in the O.R. For nearly three years, the SNSD MPs' club aimed at opening the issue of trust through the debate. We definitely used this parliamentary right through the up-to-date update of this issue at the College sessions and the College sessions in the expanded composition, with yesterday's date. Our initiative has not been accepted by members of the College and the College in an extended composition and therefore, in relation to Article 71. Rules of Procedure, we use the right of business and on the basis of our political views that in this term, given the fact that in the rotation, and it is recognizable in the functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you will no longer chair, we are taking the opportunity to propose once again the agenda point, which is – a decision on the resolution of MPs Šefik Džaferović from the presidency and member of the College of the House of Representatives. The discussion is fully known to the public, particularly in Republika Srpska, as well as in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I would like to appeal once again to my fellow MPs to support our proposal when making a statement on this proposed agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19131	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We are all in Bosnia and Herzegovina witnessing this situation and the relationship it has, have agricultural producers, especially raspberries producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the last session of Parliament, together with my colleagues from the Independent bloc, I proposed to include the item of the agenda – Realising the conclusions on earlier initiatives that I had put forward regarding the systematic resolution of this issue, which concerns establishing the lowest guaranteed price and a safe purchase for certain agricultural products, with an emphasis on raspberries. Since last time we didn't have the support to enter it as a part of the agenda and to plead at the session, I suggested that we do so through the initiative to find it at today's session of the 3rd agenda. So my question is that we don't have it on the agenda today, why the committees in charge and why the commission yesterday and the conferences in preparation for this session didn't get involved at all in the realization of this initiative? And, therefore, how is it possible that we don't have one kind of understanding of how urgent it is, how important this issue is at this point for a large number of thousands of families in Bosnia and Herzegovina living off raspberries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19133	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19134	I thank the chairman. I welcome you and the deputies and fellow Members of Parliament, MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the media and other guests. Today's session, if we exclude the adoption of the minutes and comments on the issues received, has 11 points of the agenda. Of this, a law by Momčilo Novaković, two Maja Gasal and the Commission's report on Damir's law, and finally one single Council of Ministers law, of 11 points. Never a smaller session and never more shame, especially since today we are considering a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. I know there's going to be a rotation in leadership now, but I'm really asking you as the people who run this House to try again, and I know that you did, to have a conversation with the heads of the Council of Ministers, because this is really a shame. If it wasn't for the MP at today's session, I wouldn't have a agenda. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to say about the Council of Ministers what I think when it's a report, but this really goes into one practice that's not good, simple. Here, I'll stop here so I don't use hard words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19135	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19136	Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests. I'm proposing, or I'm not asking you to point 4. The draft law amending the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is removed from the agenda, as business conditions for this point to be considered have not been met. In fact, I had an amendment at the Constitutional Commission meeting yesterday that did not receive the support of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Since the Commission is scheduled at 11 a.m. and that Article 124. Rules of Procedure (1) and (2) say that I am obliged no later than 24 hours before the start of the session to renew the amendment if I wish to defend it, I did not have the opportunity to submit the amendment again within 24 hours, means within the business period, and for that reason I have not delivered the amendment, and I want to defend it. Given that the business conditions for this to be a mandatory item of the agenda are not met, I ask that the College, meaning by interpreting the Rules of Procedure, remove this point from the agenda. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19137	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, Agent Damir Arnaut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19138	I thank the chairman. So, the Rules of Procedure very clearly prescribes what is the mandatory point, and the mandatory point is the one that has passed the commission phase. When it comes to, in the case of, that is, this proposal for a law of Parliament of Gasal-Devil, that point has passed the commission phase in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the Commission has been appointed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Novaković pointed out very clearly and decidently at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission yesterday that the amendment only submitted that, he said, he would have proved that something was wrong with the Rules of Procedure and that there should be no meetings of the commission scheduled less than 24 hours in advance. So, the Rules of Procedure allow it, I remind you that the Foreign Affairs Commission is meeting regularly the morning before the meeting, and that most commissions are meeting the day before the meeting. However, what is now of business importance is that Article 124(2), when it talks about a 24-hour period, also says, and this is what counterpart Novaković is very skillfully trying to avoid, that these amendments are submitted after they have not been adopted by the commission. So, the College of Interpreting Rules of Procedure has repeatedly pointed out that this is the first, first condition that the first amendments are not adopted by the Commission, so if it is less than 24 hours then it can be submitted. Here, therefore, the basic question arises, two basic questions – did the bill go through the commission phase? It is, so it can't be removed from the agenda, this is a mandatory point. And the second basic question - did colleague Novaković submit an amendment or are we here discussing some theory of what would happen if it were? So, counterpart Novaković says he did not submit the amendment because the College would not accept it. And the College had previously interpreted the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this as I had just stated, and allowed the debate on amendments and in such conditions. Therefore, if counterpart Novaković did not submit Amendments, I suggest that the College suspend this further debate because then this is all a theory. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19139	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19140	First of all, it is not true that I said that something was wrong with the Rules of Procedure, I said that something was wrong with the chairman of the Commission, because he scheduled a session 23 hours before the House session, which made it impossible for me as a member of the Commission to renew the amendment 24 hours before the start of the session. The position (2) is clear, which says – in the same time authorised amendment promoters, etc. So what is said after they have not been accepted is understood, means that since they are not accepted he has the right to restore them but within the same time limit, 24 hours earlier. I have this experience when I proposed amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices that were delivered with an hour of delay. These amendments were not discussed at the Parliament's session at Mr Arnaut's intervention. I accepted the fact that I didn't deliver them 24 hours before the session started. This 5 is the same situation and, of course, I expect to be handled in the same way. The fact that the session when it was the Drug Act was 48 hours, and this 23 hours before the House session began, it had nothing to do with it. Anyway, speaking of which, I'm saying no commission can be held the day before the House's meeting. It's unserious, so we have commissions that are held at half past ten and in 10 begin sessions of the House. ...work if 48 hours before the beginning of the session Members of the House do not have all the amendments, both renewed and new, etc., and new aspects ahead, how we can seriously work. So, I apologize to the Proposer of the Law, I really apologize, I will support this law when it comes to the agenda, because I think it's a good law, but I ask that all business conditions be met so that it can be found on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19141	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19142	I think Mr. Novaković, first of all, has a problem with the Rules of Procedure because it is not the same situation... the situation he mentioned. In that case, the commission decided two days before the House session, then he, I don't know, was lazy, late, I don't know what the reason was, mostly then handed it past the deadline. It's not exactly the same situation here for reasons I've already explained. In addition to the problem with the Rules of Procedure, it seems that after this presentation, he will quickly have a problem with the College because he will make sure that the College does not remove this item from the agenda because there are no business conditions for it to be removed from the agenda. So, uh, what you're saying, I'm absolutely sorry that you didn't submit that amendment because the College would certainly accept it. But now I remind you again, the fact that you're here trying to take the agenda off because you haven't taken advantage of your ability to submit the amendment is a theory again and absolutely not met the conditions to discuss it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19143	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19144	Good afternoon, everyone. I thank the chairman, and I support all those present in the hall. So I have a proposal, when it comes to the agenda, that point 13 be removed from the agenda. So that no colleagues whose member I am of the... commission proposed by this material would think that because I wasn't at that session, it wasn't, but I think this was supposed to be, those recommendations from that conference first to process the Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry, and to take a stand on these proposals. And you saw there in the material, that they had some and three suggestions or four, how much, from the commission itself. I think that these recommendations and what would be the point of the agenda don't solve anything, even though I think it just complicates the situation further, given that you're aware that there are already certain laws in the procedure, and that this commission has begun to work, so I don't see the need for us to be exhausted here today. There are also recommendations that, in my opinion, are difficult to accept here at all in Parliament. So I suggest that point 13 be removed from the agenda. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19145	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19146	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, I suggest that, here, I do not know, how the technical service provisions are set, that we also include today's agenda item – the decision to amend the decision to elect members of the Joint Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, which says "Nikola Špirić“, the words "Borislav Bojić“. Or since the Intelligence Supervisory Commission, which was in session yesterday, has been deaf about the conclusions of this House and has not provided us with any information on whether there have been forged conclusions, we believe that Mr Špirić can no longer be a member of the Commission and we propose that he be a member of the Commission instead of him, a respected colleague, Borislav Bojić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19147	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, representative Damir Arnaut, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19148	I thank the chairman. Article 52. Rules of Procedure relating to the composition and constitution of the joint commissions of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. As far as this proposal is concerned, therefore, I will not enter into the essence of the name because it is not important, but as far as this proposal is concerned, if the composition of this Commission is changed, then it is time to finally coordinate the composition of this Commission with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is very clear, this regulation, I have just quoted a member, that 2/3 of all joint committees are representatives from the Federation, or MPs and delegates from the Federation, and 1/3 from Republika Srpska. As we know, this Commission has been misconstituted from the very beginning when it comes to it, there is one more from Republika Srpska and one less from the Federation. So if the proposal is to replace someone from Republika Srpska, then this is a really good opportunity to do it with someone from the Federation and finally bring this Commission into balance with the Rules of Procedure, so 2/3 to be from the Federation, and 1/3 from Republika Srpska as the Rules of Procedure requires. And with that in mind, I may even be able to say and welcome this SDS Club initiative, this, because that now has opened up a space for us to finally bring it into balance, that we finally have 2/3 of the Federation as the Rules of Procedure requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19149	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19150	Thank you, Your Honor. I warmly welcome you all. 7 I just wanted to ask about the point, actually the initiative that I had, which was on the agenda of last session, which was submitted on 13.06 in connection with developments related to the construction of the Pelje Bridge and the bridge on Savi near Svilaj. The initiative has passed, I ask only – is this an opportunity to put it on the agenda. That's what I was expecting. Maybe it's a procedureal issue. The answer came in late afternoon. If that's a problem, if it's possible, let me just ask, to remind you of such an obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19151	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahemtović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19152	Dear chairman, members of the College, respected colleagues and colleagues, ministers. Given that there is a lot of talk in the media these days about this conference, which recently took place in Trieste, the Prime Minister, and MPs in this House do not have information from the Council of Ministers, it would be good to put the agenda on the grounds of not signing the Transport Community Treaty in the Southeast European countries today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19153	Thank you. Staša Košara's representative, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19154	Thank you. I wasn't in the O.R. when the proposal was, I guess, the SDS MPs' club about changing the structure of the I.A.'s myself. I think it continues to practice that we are still trying to come up with some solutions that are obviously someone's political need in this country and political needs and... that some who are currently participating in the work of the Intelligence and obavještajno-bjedno-bjedni, that is, in the work of the Supervisory Commission, are being held in a certain political account. Let me translate it that way, not wanting to offend anyone or wanting to, but I have the right to express my political position. If we have followed the conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives at last session of the House of Representatives, let us remember that there was no time limit for the Commission to submit the report. And no one, nor I, first of all, wants to be anyone's lawyer or have the need to defend anyone, I'm just talking about... that we in the House of Representatives still don't have an official Commission act. And I appeal to the promoter that, if we want to have information as soon as possible, the proposal may be modified to get the most urgent report from the Commission, and we are witnessing the fact that in the content of the conclusion, which the House of Representatives adopted last time, did not stand. That's it. I wouldn't want to open up the story anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19155	Thank you. I'm closing the agenda debate. 8 We move to a statement. Prepare to vote on the SNSD Club president's Staša to include the agenda item for the replacement of the chairman of this House. Prepare to vote. We're voting on it now. _________(?) Excuse me, can we repeat... At the request of the DF Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again. 6 for, 27 against, 4 contained. This proposal didn't get most of it. Mr. Šepić asked what happened to the initiative. Yesterday, at a session of the College, the initiative was sent to the competent commission and will be held at the next meeting of the House of Representatives. Saša Magazinović made remarks on the agenda, did not make proposals. Mr. Novaković, item 4 of the agenda, please request that item 4 be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19157	4th and 5th to take off.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19158	Four and five.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19159	Only four.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19160	Point 4, not 4 and 5. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have consulted here in the College and I will read you the provision of Article 124. Rules of Procedure. The position (1) says – Representatives and club representatives may propose amendments that dispute amendments adopted by the Commission. I read this Croatian version, I took this Rules of Procedure from the secretary. These amendments shall be delivered no later than 24 hours before the beginning of the House session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This results, according to the College, that the practical work of the committees in the Rules of Procedure should be completed within the deadline that will leave the deadline of 24 hours for the amendments to be submitted. So,... the amendment should be submitted no later than 24 hours before the start of the House session, and so the committee meetings should be organised. It's a business thing. We've had nine practices so far, and Mr. Arnaut is right here, not to follow and to let silently go beyond those deadlines just to have as effective work as possible. And in the follow-up to this practice, we've already figured out the agenda. For the future, therefore, it is strictly necessary, this is the first complaint of this kind that we now have in the House of Representatives, we must seriously refer to this objection, in the future organise committee meetings in a way that respects the possibility for MPs to submit amendments within the deadlines proposed. And since we have so far had the practice of doing this and beyond these deadlines, we all know that, therefore, the College of the House of Representatives will not decide on this alone, but will call on the House of Representatives to declare whether or not we are going to take down this item of the agenda. I invite you now to vote on Mr. Novaković's proposal. Prepare to vote. 20 for, 17 against, no abstentions. There is no entity majority from the Federation of BiH entity. We're going to the second round of voting right now. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 17 against. From Federation of BiH 17 against, that's less than 2/3. I find that Mr. Novaković's proposal was adopted in the second round of voting, so this point will be removed from the agenda by the House's decision. MP Lovrinović suggested removing item 13 from the agenda. It was classified by the Extended College yesterday at a session, and the MP has the right to propose that it be removed. I'm asking you to vote on it now. That's what Dom's gonna make the decision. I remind you the Extended College put it on the agenda yesterday. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 16 for, 18 against, 3 abstentions. This proposal did not receive the general majority and was not adopted, so the point remains on the agenda. We have a proposal from representative Aleksandra Pandurević on behalf of the SDS Club to include the agenda point, you know which, you've got the material. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You got it. So, at the request of the HDZ Club, we repeat this vote. 23 votes for, 13 against, 1 abstention. Enough entity majority. I find that this item of the agenda is included in the agenda and that it should be placed in the agenda in its place as it belongs to the Rules of Procedure. Let the Secretary of the House do it. 10 Mrs. Hanka Vajzović's proposal. We decided last time that we'd have it today at a House of Representatives session. We asked for information from the Council of Ministers and she arrived yesterday. I took her to the office after a session of the Expansive College, about 16 hours. Mrs. Vajzović, so you, it is up to you to propose now, I have to ask the MPs, since the material arrived late, whether you want to vote to do so today or leave it to be a mandatory point at the next session. It'll definitely be at the next session. Tell me what you suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19162	I think the MPs need to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19163	Thank you very much. I'm putting on a proposal from the lady, and I'm putting Mrs. Hanka Vajzović's proposal to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19164	How long have they, uh, I wanted it to be today.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19165	I am putting Ms. Hanka Vajzović's proposal on the vote to include the agenda item on the Peljeski Bridge. We got the information yesterday. 19 for, 5 against, 13 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I also find that this item of the agenda is included in the agenda and I call for it to be placed in the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure, as it belongs to it. And we have a proposal from Mr Sadik Ahmetović to include the agenda item – Information on the non-signing of the Agreement by Bosnia and Herzegovina related to the Transport Community at a recent summit in Trieste. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 25 votes to, 8 against, 4... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the DF Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote, repeat. 27 for, 7 against, 3 abstentions. Enough entity majority. And this will be the point of the agenda. I ask that she be placed in the agenda where she belongs according to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Vajzović has an intervention. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19167	I'm afraid we don't understand each other. I didn't insist on it being today...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19168	Tell me, tell me, clearly. Is it...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19169	To be, to be prepared, I said if they weren't, to plead...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19170	Please nice, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19171	Whether they're ready today or not. I'm, uh, I'm gonna, uh...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19172	Please, MPs, are you, are you, uh, unable to ask that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19173	So, I didn't insist, but it's important that they be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19174	So we've made a decision to make it a part of the agenda. If they're unprepared, we'll take it off the agenda, I can't take this vote back. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the agenda of the House of Representatives is the way we suggested it in the agenda, with the points taken down by the Extended College, which you are informed about, with the added agenda point, with the added agenda points related to Mrs Pandurević, Mrs Vajzović and Mr Ahmetović's proposal. So these are the points we adopted today, so Pandurević, Vajzović, Ahmetović. I find that the 50th session has an amended and updated agenda: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 48th and 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 2. Comments on questions received; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01-02-1-1374/17, since 30.05.2017 (second reading); 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MEP Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vagalica, Law No: 01-02-1-1378/17, from 31.05.2017 (second reading); 5. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, of 10.03.2017 (Law in Second Reading); 12 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-770/17, of 20.03.2017 (Law in Second Reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-11610/17, from 04.07.2017 (first reading), Short Procedure; 8. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-141/17, dated 05.06.2017; 9. Report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješke bridge and events related to the construction of the bridge on the Sava near Svilaj – submiter: Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH (realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 49th session of the House of Representatives, held on 05.07.2017.) Act No 01-50-1-1474/17, 25.07.2017. Ten. Report on the work of the Research Commission of the PSBiH House of Representatives to determine the situation at the Export Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-5-223-9.9.17, since 27.06.2017; 11. Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH – Proposer of the point: Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1-15-50/17, of 26.07.2017. 12. A review of Nikola Lovrinović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 16 June 2017, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH', No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative to include the agenda of the next session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH point of title: Declaration of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on Article 7(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament", issue: 01-50-1508/17; 13. Information on the activities of the BiH Market Surveillance Agency, materials of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-9-12-3/17, since 12.06.2017; 14. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the reasons for not signing the Treaty on the Transport Community of Southeast Europe – Proposer of the point: Representative Sadik Ahemtović, Act No: 01-50-1-15-50/17, of 26.07.2017; 15. Recommendations from the conference "National Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held in Sarajevo on 13 and 14.06.2017, issue: 01/5-29-1341/17, since 21.07.2017. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Let's go to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 48th and 49th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives You've got the records. I'm opening a debate. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an objection to the minutes of the 49th session. On page 14, you are talking about how I commented, commented on the Bureau notice, asking to be added – saying that it hopes that the transcript did not burn in the 2014 events, and just happened, you will see later that I did not get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19177	Thank you very much. Since no one has been reported anymore, I ask that the services record this remark by Mr. Lovrinović, and with this remark we will put the minutes to the vote when it is time to vote. Let's go to point two, Ad. 2. Comments on questions received In accordance with Article 170. By this session, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Questions and Initiatives in written form were asked by representatives: Saša Magazinović asked the President of the Council of Ministers, Ministers of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, the Board of Direct Taxation of BiH, Governor of the Central Bank of BiH; Denis Bećirović referred the initiative to the College of the House; Senad Šepić addressed the initiative to the College of the House; Mirsad Mešić asked the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers; Miroslav Milovanović asked the question of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the minister of security of BiH; Šemsudin Mehmedović asked the Minister of Finance and Transport of BiH. The following answers were submitted to today's session: to the questions of Saša Magazinović, put in writing form at 46th, 48th and 49th session of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Council of Ministers and Governor of the Central Bank of BiH; to the question Damir Arnaut Šepić in oral form at the 48th session, the Council of Ministers of BiH Milovanović a Vajzović to the BiH Ministry of Justice; to Safer question of Mensura Backović, asked the oral question Maja the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, the reply to the Beganović meeting, the reply Gasal the Vražalica of the BiH Foreign Trade, Economic Relations, and to the question set out in the Hazim Rančić to the 45th session, the Council of Ministers sent a reply to the question of the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH; the reply to the question of the Ministers of the Ministers of BiH, the Ministers, the Minister of BiH, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of BiH, the Minister of BiH, the Council, the Minister of the Denis, the Demirović of BiH, the Minister of the Minister of the Council, the Council, the Minister of the Minister of BiH, the Council, the Minister of the Council, the Minister of the Council, the Minister of BiH, the Council, the Minister of the Minister of the Council, the Council, the following. Anyone want to comment on the answer? Before we move on to comments, just one little detail on the agenda. So, it's totally undeniable when it comes to this agenda and that we have respected Mr. Novaković's proposal and that the point of the four has been taken down, and I said that all the points that were on the extended college, so other than that point that was also taken down with what I was saying on this agenda. Secretary, that's what I remembered, so this proposal is done, so there's no ambiguity, when the stenogram is watched later. The commentary is represented by Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So my comment is that I haven't got any answers yet from the tv service I sent. It's their founding act and the way they've been established, and for over a year now, from federal television, and I haven't received an answer from the Ministry of Human Rights, so I'm now asking to be followed by what we've passed, so simply those who haven't delivered the punishment, so we have the possibility now, is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19180	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19181	I still haven't got the answers to the Ministry of Transport and Communications question. And as for the foreign ministry's response, which the chairman read to me, the Foreign Ministry has been doing this for some time now, so they're delivering an answer that's not at all an answer to the question that I've asked. And this has already gone into practice, and I'm on several occasions, and I'm going to talk about it today when there's a Council of Ministers report on the agenda. It is true that the ministries that watch out for MPs to get answers within the deadline and get answers to really questions, not that the answer is trying to completely bypass or avoid the question. I pointed out on several occasions, I get quality answers in time from the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and that's about it. But it is also seen, given the continuity of quality and the way it is delivered, that it goes from the head, it is seen to go from the very top of the ministry, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seems to have either consciously or completely uninterested ministers to get, uh, quality answers, to get them in time. And I will remind you then, if there is a foreign ministry representative here, because I'm already used to the minister being never there, but if there is a foreign minister's representative, to inform the minister that I will then take advantage of the business opportunity and go to the interpretation, the interpretation is allowed if a particular ministry does not give answers to questions in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and then we will open this question why the Foreign Ministry has not yet adopted the Regulation on the evaluation of ambassadors and 15 other international representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the answer I've been trying to get straight for two years. So, from the very beginning of this mandate, I have been trying to get an answer as to why the ministry has not adopted a regulation prescribed by the BiH presidency's decision since 2013. Two years ago, I was told it was due to a personal conflict, that it was not adopted because of the personal conflict on the line of former Foreign Minister Lagumžija, and then the president, Mr Komšić's presidency, and that they appreciate that with the new assembly of the presidency and the new foreign minister that it will be done within six months, and now it's been two and a half years that they didn't do it too. And after that, I never got the answer again why they didn't do it. And I think that this is something that requires an interpretation, it's enough that eight MPs are going to initiate an interpretation here, and if there's anyone here outside the Foreign Ministry, because besides the minister never comes, we don't even have the practice of sending someone to the House's session anymore. Well, if anyone had to pass it on to him, I'd be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19182	Thank you. Representative Mensura Beganović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19183	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. This is part of the answer that referred to my question, to my question concerning economic diplomacy, and this part was quite exhaustive, part of my answer, the answer to my question was rather exhaustively delivered by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, and it concerned the activities of the BiH Export Council that are working with the Ministry. But I have to comment on what I expected to get, that in 10 years since this Council was established, unfortunately they have achieved a lot of results when it comes to participation in fairs, perhaps some support for the presentation of Bosnia and Herzegovina products, exporting them, which are the subject of our exports, but what I also have to notice is that in this Council of Ministers as an observer is present and representative of the Export Credit Agency because, the activity of the Export Credit Agency is very important for export companies, so it is not clear to me that they have not been sufficiently active when it comes to the debt that was gradually entered by the Export Credit Agency. Another of my remarks on the work of this Council refers to last year's adopted law which makes it easier for exporters to get worse, i.e. let the rights be abolished which in no case contributes to increasing exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina as one of the strategic definitions of our economy in general. And of course, in the end, I can't help but mention that the export growth strategy from 2012 to 2015 has been prepared in some form, but it has not seen the light of day, nor has it passed through institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that it has experienced the fate of many strategies, strategic documents, which we unfortunately cannot reach in this country. And I'm sorry that this fate, the fate of that strategy, which was the subject of this, this Export Council's work, has experienced exactly that fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19184	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, comment. Here's 16
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19185	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I got an answer from the Department of Defense on the oral question. I thank you for your response, but unfortunately, I'm not happy with the answer. Most of the answer concerns the activities and co-operation of the ministry with the competent police agencies and prosecutors, which, of course, is good, which I, I accept, is okay, but my question was not at all related to that segment of the case, but to the activities taken by the Ministry of Defence out of my jurisdiction. The answer incorrectly states that they have taken up a number of activities and analysis by the competent services, but unfortunately it does not say what services, what organisational units and when they did so, so when they did these analyses, they would beg for the answer to be completed in that part. And the answer also says that, that a series of acts and decisions have been made in this regard, and in order to improve, improve, improve the process of protecting people, units, formations, ministries, assets, etc., so please fill in your decision as well.(?). So, precisely, clearly, who and when kept and made those analyses and what decisions they made and what they did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19186	Thank you. Representative Hanka Vajzović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19187	Thank you, Chairman. It's two answers, so two. I've received answers from the Ministry of Transport and Communication on two questions and I can't say that I'm satisfied with what it is, everything has been confirmed that nothing has been done there about what I asked. It's written long and wide, what fellow Arnaut said absolutely agreeing, with the fact that I think this approach is already offensive. So nothing's done but it's written if Bog does, so on one and the other question and I think it's, that they've matured the conditions to commit one item to the work of this ministry, there's a lot of problems. Not to remind myself of what I asked, something I was looking for earlier, signalling at the border crossings, everything from the scope of their work. It's practically everywhere, and this is about to be an illustration, it's said -- their ending, so nothing's done, we accept, but we write extensively, we don't explain why it wasn't done, but it's said – their ending is expected as soon as possible. What I'm asking is, it starts working after I ask and says the shortest time will be over. I'm not happy at all, and I don't think it makes any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19188	Thank you. Representative Senad Šepić, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19189	Thank you very much. I thank the Department of Security for the answer, but I would ask them to answer me as I asked. So, I asked when will finally be a realized initiative adopted here in the House of Representatives regarding these border crossings and retegorizations, and I got 17 tax-listed what has been done so far. So it's obvious there's something going on, but on the other hand it's also obvious there's no movement, there's no result. So I would ask the Ministry to supplement this, this answer, with a proposal for concrete measures, that is, their plan to finish this job.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19190	Thank you Representative Fehim Škaljić, commentary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in one important issue of the future Bosnia and Herzegovina's path to European integration, I have asked the Ministry of Justice when we will stop the practice that has been established in socialism to take away private property, to retain private property and to return it, when we will have a law that regulates it. I got an answer that actually confirms that old bureaucratic max - get rid of the case, not the subject. I don't need to be cited by the chronology of it when it's, what's the matter, when it's gonna be, when this country's gonna stop using someone else's? We have declared that we are a country of democracy, open society and the right to private property. All transition countries have shown their relationship to private property by restitution. What is it about us when we have the law on the table? It is said that we found a draft in 2009, so the children left kindergarten long ago who were born then and graduated from some schools. People of God, are we going to tell the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Europe we are seeking, that we are committed to European standards and that we will build them or behave only in a hidden way, inconsistencies, as communists have acted using others? At least in one part they were honest, because they were declaring a policy of taking away private, and we were declaring a policy of guaranteeing private. Let's get back to someone else's if we want perspective.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19192	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19193	I thank the chairman and welcome all present. So, before looking back on the response received from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I thank the minister, I never got, so I've been waiting two years, for the answer to the question I sent to the BiH Statistics Agency. I've worked on the secretary several times, but I've also publicly expressed the fact that I've never received an answer, and I'm using this opportunity to re-emerge with the secretary and make the emergency course. I asked all the competent education institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I received an answer from education ministries except Canton 10. So my question referred to children who are unable to attend and attend school classes because of their health conditions, and schooling should be conducted according to the rules of the school. This shows the relationship between Canton 10 and the Ministry of Education with these children because I know that these children, children with severe illnesses and developmental difficulties live in Canton 10. I was also surprised that the Ministry of Education of the Sarajevo Canton has asked seven questions about how many children there are in Canton which, with severe illnesses and who are unable to attend and attend classes in the educational 18 institutions, the competent Ministry of Canton of Sarajevo quoted in a brief sentence, so on seven questions asked, they replied that they had adopted a new Law on Fundamental Education and Education and that, that the maltenes were all treated questions in this new Law. So, the minister did not bother to look back on what happened to those children who are currently living and who, due to their condition, will remain most likely, because of his relationship, illiterate, and even parents when they go to the other world because of age or something else, they will not be able to read to themselves, because they will remain illiterate, and the minister has not bothered to organize the teaching in the house, so they will not be able to read to themselves what they need to take. So one relationship in Bosnia and Herzegovina with children is generally negative, according to the Council of Ministers' report on the work. In this response, however, they touched something else, saying that the entity health ministries are responsible for the registration of rare diseases. However, the Federal Ministry of Health has no data on the number of children with rare and severe diseases. Also, Canton Sarajevo states that there are 1,953 children in Canton of Sarajevo with severe illnesses, but here we see that the competent ministry has made no effort to help these children, i.e. to teach and school in the house. It has also proved that assistants, the organisation of assistants in Bosnia and Herzegovina's cantons, are not at the level at which it should be and that, in accordance with all signed conventions on the rights of the child and human rights of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina is far, far from the conditions, i.e. establishing conditions for children in Bosnia and Herzegovina to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed right, which is the right to education.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19194	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19195	I would just ask the minister of justice, I still haven't got the answer I've set, and as far as the war crime is concerned, means killing a driver from the Tuzla Convoy of Rescue and robbing that convoy. The question has been asked a long time ago, I still haven't received an answer on whether any proceedings are being conducted at any court in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19196	Thank you. Representative Safer Demirović, comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19197	I thank the Honorable Chairman, of course, and welcome all present. I have received a reply from the Council of Ministers on the question of the adoption of the European directives from the so-called The new approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina legislation and I am extremely satisfied with the answer, the way it was written, as it was all presented, but what it says in this response is disastrous. This is otherwise, this set of directives is related to the placing on the market or placing of certain products directly affecting the health of consumers and the health of our citizens, and we have actually had one complete blockade in the process of adopting these directives because of a decision by the Government of Republika Srpska, where it has withdrawn its members from the Technical Regulations Committee. And I have a question for myself, one concern – today when we are full of Europe's mouth, European approaches to Europe, we all, we have an absolute, at least in our exhibitions, support for European integration, how is it possible that we have such a blockade 19 in the adoption of directives that will eventually be mandatory for us and how can we have a relationship to their implementation in our legislation? I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19198	Thank you. There are no more comments reported for the answers received. We're moving to three agendas, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic Safety on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01- 02-1-1374/17, from 30.05.2017 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 49th session of the House on 05.07.2017. The Commission for Transport and Communications submitted its Report on the Bill's Proposal on 21.07.2017. The Commission unanimously supported the draft law. I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19200	I thank the chairman. I find that there are no business conditions to discuss the bill's proposal, since the proposal is not present and I urge you to remove this item of the agenda in the absence of the motionor or call on the House to decide whether or not this proposal will be declared in its absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19201	Thank you sekretar, how are things with the Rules of Procedure? Read the appropriate provision. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the SDS Club, I'm giving a break of 10 minutes. Please don't make any comments. Break 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19204	First of all, the chairman, I remind the Rules of Procedure that after the break, which was called upon at the request of one of the clubs, a representative of the club is required to explain the reason for the break. In addition, Article 7(4) of the Parliament which must leave the sitting during its stay shall inform the Chairman of the House and shall state the reasons for its absence. Since you seemed surprised when I pointed out that the promoter was not there, I can see from that that the motioner, or Mr. Novaković, did not inform you in time, this, of his absence and I ask that both of these interventions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be included in the minutes of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19205	Thank you. So let's put this in session logs, and it's good for Mr. Arnaut that you and you can also point out the question of acting as representatives when leaving the gym, and everyone really needs to address the chairman, so take care of all of this in the future. And whoever's looking for a break has the right to explain it has the right not to explain it. Do you want to? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Following the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Safety of Traffic on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, some shortcomings have already occurred in practice. Among all these shortcomings, one was particularly interesting. In fact, by adopting this Act, we have actually made it impossible for any person in Bosnia and Herzegovina to obtain conditions for passing the D-category test, because the law said that they would lay down D-category must have D1 and D1E for at least two years. Given that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to my knowledge, there are only two auto-schools that can carry out training, and that all others do not have vans of technical characteristics on which both D1 and D1E can be placed, I have suggested that an amendment of the Law be made which would allow you to continue and with the C category to lay down the D category and, of course, retain both the possibility of D1 and D1E. This proposal is in agreement with the Directive, which was otherwise one of the reasons for amending the Law, the European Parliament Directive and is also in agreement with the practice of all countries in the region, and I have Serbia here, and Croatia, and Slovenia, and therefore I have proposed that it be made possible, so 21 continued practices that existed so far with the introduction of D1 and D1E. Croatia has even more liberality, so it is said with the B category and a certain internship and years of age you can take the D category. I didn't go so far as to liberalize it, but I stuck to the previous provisions as previously defined. The other members are actually of a technical nature, namely one sentence is prescribed in two members, which is quite unnecessary, it is sufficient for the punishment for something to be prescribed by one member. And that's why I suggested that you delete it in those members, so where we have double practical punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19208	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Vazalalica, Law No: 01-02-1-1378/17, from 31.05.2017 (second reading) The bill was adopted in the first reading at the 49th session of the House on 05.07.2017. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered the bill's proposal report on 25.07.2017. The Commission adopted the draft law. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Representative Damir Arnaut, Law No: 01-02-1-687/17, of 10.03.2017 (Law in Second Reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19212	...point 5, uh, that's when I first pressed business intervention. So this is about getting into college, that's the law that's been dating ambulances since March to get priority over escorted vehicles. I reminded the first-reading agreement vote that there are indications, taking into account the dates from the relevant document, that the College did not meet as a committee within 3 days, given the date that stands next to the signing of Mr Bosić, and then I asked to be informed of this issue in detail and you were in the capacity of the chairman then obliged that I would receive this notice. I'm saying now that I didn't get it, I didn't get that notice. And with that in mind, I now question whether and in this case, the commission met as a College within three days of the first round of voting. I would like to get detailed information on this, including which of the members of the College was opposed to having the ambulance given priority over the escorted vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19213	Thank you. Please let the services prepare an appropriate response. The college works the way it works, you'll get all the answers you need. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1610/17, of 04.07.2017 (first reading), Summary of Procedure On 07.07.2017, the legislative and legal sector delivered the Opinion you received from the College of the House at the 51st session, held on 04.07.2017, as competent to consider the proposal for a law appointed by the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Commission submitted its opinion on 25.07.2017. The Commission accepted the principles of the bill's proposal and established the consistency of the draft law with the BiH Constitution and the Bosnia and Herzegovina legal system. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to a point of eight agendas, invite me this reminder, there's been a shift in the agenda points. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19215	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19216	Yeah, okay, it's okay. Now we move to point eight, so, agenda, ad. 8. Report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, issue: 01,02-50-19-1411/17, since 05.06.2017 At the 49th session, we decided to postpone the report's debate to reopen the committee's debate at its meetings with the presence of ministers, and to hold a debate at today's session with the presence of the chairman and all ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. The Commission delivered opinions on the Report in the section relating to the work of the institutions in their responsibilities, but I note the following: the Transport and Communications Commission, the Joint Commission for the Control of the Work of the Intelligence and Security Agency and the Joint Commission for Defence and Security of BiH adopted the Report. The Joint Commission on European Integration and the Commission on Gender Equality supported the Report. The Joint Commission on Human Rights and the Constitutional Commission did not adopt the Report. The Foreign Affairs Commission rejected the report in preparation for the 49th session of the House, and the report was not discussed at yesterday's session of the Commission due to the lack of quorum for holding the session. The Commission on Finance and Budgets, the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs and the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development did not accept the Report. The Foreign Trade and Customs Commission proposes the adoption of a conclusion that reads -- it is suggested to the BiH Council of Ministers to amend the Methodology and way of writing the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, and to bind the new methodology to the work programme of the previous year. You've got your opinions. I'm opening a debate. I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denis Zvizdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19218	Dear Chairman, respected members of the College, distinguished MPs and MPs, respected colleagues from the Council of Ministers, respected media, all present, I welcome you all in my name and on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH and allow me to take a brief look at the most important details of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016. So, respected representatives before you is the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016, which, as the chairman has just said, was drawn up in accordance with the new Methodology, which was made in collaboration with SIGMA recommendations and followed by the experience and practice of most developed countries, almost all European Union countries, and the report on work this time through this Methodology is compatible with the Council of Ministers' work programme. What I want to underline is that this Methodology was also attended by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Office for Law, the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office, the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions, the Directorate for Economic Planning of BiH, the Directorate for European Integration of BiH, the General Secretariat, the Parliamentary Assembly and representatives of the project financed in front of the European Union. So we are talking about a new methodology that is present in almost 24 of all European Union countries. But here, however, due to the increased level of its analysis and content within this report he obviously requires and a narrative explanation of the overall work results based on a large number of presented data and parameters and therefore allow me to look back at the most important ones in my presentation. As you know right away at the start of this Council of Ministers' mandate, we are aware of the situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, as well as the need and justified requirements of the citizens and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of defining clear priorities, activities and measures leading to the preservation of the peace and security environment, the concreteisation of the European integration process and the trade of a clear European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the improvement of socio-economic opportunities have defined several of the most important priorities on which we have actively worked during 2016, and the most important thing is to dynamic the process of European integration and active work on the realisation of the Italian conditions, i.e. in the booking of promising military assets as one of the most important conditions for the activation of the MAP for NATO membership, economic growth and development, i.e.e. the establishment of the potential of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the function of plan and sustainable economic development, the rule of law and the fight against organised crime, corruption and all forms of extremismism and the regional improvement of regional development. I can say, and I will make this clear through a number of parameters, which I will continue to present to you, that, as the Council of Ministers of BiH in 2016, we have worked very actively, valuable and consistently, and according to the opinion of the domestic and especially international representatives of the institutions, and very successfully, because within the most important activities a credible progress has been achieved, so let me only list some of the visible and measurable results in relation to each of these priorities. In 2016, after many years in which the European integration process was slowed down, and in certain periods and blocked, it is certainly the most successful European year for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order to understand correctly the importance of progress made in this area, it is necessary to remind yourself of the situation that this Council of Ministers has encountered when it comes to the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina and which you will have clearly shown on the next two slides. So Bosnia and Herzegovina began its SAA negotiations in 2005, as you can see on the slide, initialled the 2007 Agreement and signed the 2008 Agreement. Then, as you can see, we were shoulder to shoulder with other countries in the Western Balkans region, with Serbia, with Montenegro, Albania, etc. However, after 2008, there is a significant slowdown in Bosnia and Herzegovina's European path, which in certain periods has the character of a complete blockade, with Bosnia and Herzegovina starting to lag behind its neighbours, and then practically stagnate in all stages of European integration. It is in fact the real state that we have found and which best illustrates the gravity of the situation faced by this Council of Ministers when taking office in April 2015, and what you see in fact in slide ahead of you, which is the best response to certain untrues, manipulations, which I have had the opportunity to hear or read in previous days, that our neighbours have made progress and that we have been past in the process of European integration during the term of office of this Council of Ministers. That is why it is very important to underline and highlight the periods and years when our neighbours have achieved the goal that we are seeking during this term of office. So, Croatia achieved this goal of obtaining candidate status in 2004, Macedonia 2005, Montenegro 2010, Serbia in 2012, and Albania in 2014. Thus, the complete process of obtaining candidate status was completed before 2014, so before the appointment of this Council of Ministers, while before us there were still several unfulfilled conditions from the entry into force of the SAA to the Coordination Mechanism. This is exactly what the Council of Ministers took to the full seriousness of the situation and very responsibly, with the help of other levels of authorities who were sincere and not declaratively committed to the European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and particularly with significant support and assistance from the BiH Presidency, began to realise the conditions of the European agenda of 25 Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we successfully realised and achieved in the short, quick period, as indicated in the Report on its progress in '15. and in '16, as well as through statements by many European officials, impressive for many unexpected progress, and it is seen in the following facts. At the beginning of 2016, the Council of Ministers took into account the fact that it was already in '15. the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the adoption of the Reform Agenda as a package of comprehensive reforms, launched the process of harmonising the coordination and technical adaptation mechanisms of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, consequently, the application for membership in the European Union was submitted in February 2016. In August 2016, after many years of harmonisation, the long-awaited condition was adopted, a mechanism for co-ordination of the process of European integration in Bosnia and Herzegovina, while all the bodies envisaged by the Mechanism were set up and functioning in accordance with the basic principle of action, i.e. participation in accordance with constitutional competences, with the aim of ensuring a single vote towards the European Union. The Protocol was signed and ratified at the SAA in order to take into account the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and, in December 2016, representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission signed the Protocol alongside the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on the one hand and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the other hand and was applicable from 1 February 2017. In addition, a decision of the Stabilisation and Association Council on the replacement of Protocol 2 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Member States and their countries, of the one part, and of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, on the definition of the concept of "products of origin" and methods of administrative co-operation has been adopted. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement shall apply in full and in accordance with its provisions and rules of international law. The bodies established under this Agreement and the relevant ministries and institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina shall monitor and report on the application and amendment of the Agreement, thus demonstrating that Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully committed to implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and meeting its obligations. Continuity has also continued in the implementation of activities defined under the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda at all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and a credible implementation of those measures, and I remind you that it is at 55% level, has led to very concrete and measurable results, i.e. the increase of all macroeconomic parameters in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I will discuss further. Progress has also been made in the field of combating all forms of organised crime and corruption, including an extremely important fight against terrorism, and a significantly improved area of regional co-operation, in particular co-operation with our first neighbours, which has also been confirmed by mutual visits, joint appearances and joint sessions. Such a credible realization of all the requirements put forward on the European agenda of Bosnia and Herzegovina resulted in the obtaining of a European Commission questionnaire for Bosnia and Herzegovina containing 3,242 issues and representing one of the most comprehensive, complex and challenging parts of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration process, as it covers all segments of political, legal, economic, social, social and administrative life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Preparations for responding to the questionnaire were launched before the formal referral of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Uptnik in December 2016, and the BiH Council of Ministers' Directorate for European Integration had already submitted all levels of government to the list of potential issues prepared on the basis of neighbouring countries' questionnaires, and a single information system was launched to facilitate work on the preparation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's single answers. The reporting guidelines and the list of potential rules to be submitted from the questionnaire were also developed. A number of workshops and trainings took part in over a thousand officials from all levels of government were also organised. 26 As part of the implementation of the Decision on the system of coordination of the process of European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all bodies have been formed – the College for European Integration, the Commission for European Integration and the Working Group for European Integration, that is, 36 working groups, with 33 working groups formed in accordance with the chapters of the acquis of the European Union and three groups of political and economic criteria, and for the reform of public administration. The European Integration College held two sessions, the European Integration Commission held five meetings, while working groups are actively working on the process of preparing and harmonising a single response ahead of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, 27 of the 33 working groups have held their meetings and the complete process of preparing single responses is in the phase of accelerated implementation. Therefore, all bodies are formed and actively working on the envisaged system of coordination of European integration. The Council of Ministers, of course, has been actively working on meeting other commitments under the European integration process, and in 2016 we stepped up the holding of subcommittee meetings between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina under the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The first meetings of a series of subcommittees were held, namely the Subcommittee on Agriculture and Mining, the Subcommittee on Trade, Industry, Customs and Taxation, the Sub-Committee on the Internal Market and Competition, the Sub-Committee on Transport, Energy, the Environment and Regional Development, and the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Justice, Freedom and Security. Therefore, sincere commitment to the continuity of the process of European integration, the commitment to further implementing the reform, the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union remained at the top of the Council of Ministers' priorities which I am holding and which are recognised as a key generator of European processes and integration, whose engagement has been recognised as an exceptional commitment to the realisation of key objectives from the European and economic agenda, leading to the quality, progressive and impressive progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the implementation of activities that our country is leading to non-refundable membership in the European Union, and which can be clearly seen from numerous statements by European officials, of which only a few of which you see on the accompanying slide. The activities are parallel to the development of full-state strategic documents with the aim of accessing IPA funds. And in this area, we have found a situation that was very unfavourable for Bosnia and Herzegovina, because due to the untimely adoption of the necessary IPA funds only for Bosnia and Herzegovina were planned for the period 2014-2017, while for all other countries of the region these funds were planned for the period 2014-2020, which is why Bosnia and Herzegovina has lost over the past few years, due to such obstructions and blockades, hundreds of millions of euros. Namely, the European Union is based on the '13-'14 Indicator document. Provide financial resources for Bosnia and Herzegovina only for the period '14-17. and this for sectors – democracy and governance, rule of law, competitiveness of innovation, education and social policy and regional co-operation, while Bosnia and Herzegovina did not receive funding for extremely important development areas – transport, environment, energy and agriculture, because of the fact that in the period when it was decided on... these funds, which was, I recall, before the appointment of this Council of Ministers, no whole state strategies were adopted for these sectors. As a result, the IPA II annual location of financial assistance has been reduced to only 40m euros annually, i.e. it has been reduced by 60m euros annually, meaning that Bosnia and Herzegovina is currently in a position to withdraw only 166m euros instead of over 660m euros. Therefore, as the Council of Ministers, we have made very serious and professional commitment to the implementation of the commitments under the existing IPA Fund programme and to the European Commission already in July 2016 we presented the IPA State Programme proposal for 2016 worth more than 50m euros, adopted at the Council of Ministers in September 2016. In November 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted action documents under the '17 IPA programme. on the basis of an annual location of 40m euros available in sectors to improve the 27 human resources management in the state service system and further development of statistics, further support for public finance management, strengthening the efficiency and integrity of the justice sector with a focus on effective implementation of the anti-discrimination policy. At the same time, the interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been confirmed for the use of IPA II sectoral budget support in the field of employment, and an action document for sectoral budgetary support for the employment and education sector with social policy has been adopted. Of course, we put the key focus on the adoption of missing state strategies that we adopted two of – for transport and the environment, which resulted in more than 30m euros in funding, reminding us of the funds we received for two bridges in Svilaj and Gradišca, while the adoption of the remaining energy and rural development strategies is expected in the next few months, which will fully realise all the conditions of the Indicative Strategic Document for Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period of '18-'20. which we prepared and launched in November 2016 and whose adoption of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have the same status as other countries in the region, and those areas for which we did not have financial support, which would again have more than 100m euros per year, which would mean at least 200 to 300m euros in the next three-year period. The next important activity focused on the Council of Ministers' interest is the use of the Investment Framework for the Western Balkans. The National Investment Board held four meetings in 2016 and within two calls for technical... applications amounting to 14.2m euros were submitted, while four projects under the first round were submitted under two calls for co-financing of investment grants, and nine projects in the second round of 130m euros in grants, over 730m euros in investments. A positive result of such a Council of Ministers' engagement with other institutions is this year's approval of four projects for Bosnia and Herzegovina Out of the six received by the Western Balkan region, four projects have been received by Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are currently in stand-by position due to the blockade of the Transport Community, which came from the Republika Srpska government in the final and finalisation of the process of preparing the Transport Community Treaty. I will also brief a few important facts in light of the European Commission's '16 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina. The year, which confirms our determination to focus our attention on important reforms essential to joining the European Union. Under Bosnia and Herzegovina's political criteria, the implementation of the recommendations set out in the European Commission's '16 report remains committed. We have adopted the Action Plan for the implementation of the Report with the participation of all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would particularly like to point out that following the initial delays in the preparation process, intensive activities are being carried out to finalise Bosnia and Herzegovina's response to the European Commission's questionnaire. We remain actively involved in the process of public administration reform, so, according to this, the draft public administration reform strategy for the medium-term period '17-20 was drawn up. Bosnia and Herzegovina remains fully committed to the construction of the rule of law at all levels, and the judicial reform processes that take place through continued consultations within the framework of the Structural Dialogue. The Action Plan for Implementation of the Strategy for Reforming the Justice Sector has been adopted, and the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has brought forward a series of acts that improve the area of assessment of the work of prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as acts to improve the disciplinary procedure against judicial officials. We remain committed to the reform process in the area of the fight against corruption and organised crime, while recognising that we need to step up activities to improve the overall framework for address these, all challenges in this area. The strategy and action plans to fight corruption were adopted at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and four cantons, and bodies for co-ordination of the fight against corruption were formed at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, the Federation of BiH and five cantons. A strategy was adopted in the area of migration and asylum and the Action Plan for the period '16-20. We have defined migration policy and 28 asylums in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Council of Ministers adopted the 2016 Migration Profile as the ninth annual level aimed at ensuring the BiH Council of Ministers a realistic insight into key trends in the area of migration. With regard to the above, it is important to stress that the Integrated Border Management Strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period '16-'18 was adopted. The agreement on operational strategic co-operation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office came into force. On the basis of this Agreement, the Memorandum of Understanding on the secrecy and security of data between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office and the Agreement on the Relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Police Office were adopted. In the area of the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, it is important to point out that Bosnia and Herzegovina is in the final phase of the implementation of the Action Plan, which will meet the criteria for closing the relevant FATF procedure, and that in the past it is a harmonised financial system with the standards and requirements of Manival, and Manival has withdrawn, so Manival withdrew his so-called. a statement on Bosnia and Herzegovina's non-compliance with which Bosnia and Herzegovina was re-returned into regular procedure, as well as all other member states of Maneval, which I will discuss more closely in the follow-up of my presentation. Furthermore, in line with the international commitments undertaken by Bosnia and Herzegovina, it significantly improved the control of arms exports through the adoption of a new Law on the Control of Foreign Trade of Weapons, Military Equipment and Special Purpose Products, and we are actively taking part in the EU's Centre of Extraordinance Initiative to reduce chemical, biological and radiological and nuclear risks. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina is committed to improving cooperation in the field of the EU's common foreign and security policy and we welcome the adoption of the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy. In this context, the agreement with the European Union on establishing a framework for Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in EU crisis management operations was concluded. In light of the above, it is clear that the basis for Bosnia and Herzegovina's stable and economic and political progress is further moving towards NATO membership. Bosnia and Herzegovina has done a lot in the reform process thanks to the defence ministry's activities, especially in the sector, of course, of defence, which has been realised with significant support from NATO as well. During the process, we have already taken over certain NATO forces standards. I must say that we are very active and committed to implementing the terms of the Talin so that the Council can decide as soon as possible on the activation of the Action Plan for membership in the MAP. I must say that we have also inherited a situation in this area that did not reflect enough engagement of earlier structures, especially the Ministry of Defence, in terms of realising this important condition, so that until the appointment of this Council of Ministers, we have practically not had any location since then 63, the current 57, and only thanks to the Ministry of Defence's engagement with Minister Pendeš, together with our lawyers and the BiH Presidency have significantly launched activities related to the entry of military property. Special progress has been made in 2016, and out of 57 perspective military locations, 27 are listed, of course, they are all in the Federation of BiH, as you know, while 17 are in the booking process, and 8 are in preparation for booking, and we believe that by the end of the year we will be able to crediblely implement a condition that could enable us to activate the MAP. Respected MPs, the implementation of numerous reforms, both at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at the level of entities and cantons, and the adoption of laws and many strategies that have waited for many years, such as. A strategy in the area of migration and asylum, Bosnia and Herzegovina's medium-term debt management strategy, the BiH Framework Strategy for Small Arms and Light Weapons Control, the Strategy for the Development of the Public Procurement System, the Public Finance Management Reform Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the Internal Financial Control Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, etc., has led to a plan-based action to increase the level of efficiency of all processes and growth of all vital economic parameters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The BiH Council of Ministers continued implementing measures from the economic reform agenda in 2016. As part of the Council of Ministers' competences, 34 measures are planned in the Action Plan, and by the end of 2016 18 measures have been fully implemented, 5 are continuously implemented, while 7 measures are under way. Therefore, the level of implementation of the planned measures for the four-year period is 55% at the Council of Ministers level, while more than 90% of the measures planned for that year were implemented in 2016. For the first time, a mid-term debt management strategy was adopted at the state level, which was one of the key obligations of the Reform Agenda Action Plan. The strategy, together with the presentation of the debt structure, contains an assessment of the status of the debt, and defines the medium-term objectives of debt management and guidelines for achieving the objectives set. Unlike very bad, even the negative decline in GDP, for example in 2009 was -3%, 0.87% in 2010, 0.96% in 2011 and 1.15% in 2015, respectively, while in 2016 it was 3.77%. What, when it comes to export growth as one of the most important indicators of economic growth that increased by 4.85% in 2016, while more than 71% of exports are moving towards the countries of the European Union and for the first time, the coverage of exports has crossed by 60%, it speaks of the fact that our resources have been put in the economic development function in a plan way, and that the quality and competitiveness of our products has been significantly improved. Our focus in the first phase of the reform agenda was on strengthening public finances management, significantly reducing the total cost of public sector wages, and we expect that through measures under public administration reform we will continue to increase the efficiency of... funds. In 2016 a total of 6.6 billion KM gross incomes were collected with a GDP growth of 4.5%, but also a modest return growth from the Single Account Office for indirect taxation, net revenues reached 5.5 billion KM. Most importantly, the growth drivers of the net revenues collected were VAT, customs and toll revenues. As a result of the implementation of the measures under the Bosnia and Herzegovina Reform Agenda, it preserved the stability of the financial system and its credit rating, the 2017 Modisa Report preserved a stable Bosnia and Herzegovina credit rating with positive prospects. In the area of improving the business climate and competitiveness, the most significant shifts include the adoption of the Customs Policy Act, the draft amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Signature, as well as the follow-up of sublegal acts, while the final phase of the amendment of the Regulations and the procedures of the Directorate for Direct Taxation which will allow... the introduction of VAT services and income tax. A map of parafiscal duties to be paid to the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' budget has been performed and a harmonisation of parafiscal burdens at all levels of government follows in the coming period. During 2016, the upcoming trend continued in Bosnia and Herzegovina's external and trade with the world. Its earlier characteristics were an increase in the volume of total trade in goods, exports and imports of goods, and a decrease in the external trade deficit and a better coverage of exports compared to last year. Bosnia and Herzegovina achieved exports worth more than 9 billion KM in 2016, which is 4,85% higher compared to the previous year, resulting in a coverage of exports of more than 60%, a significant increase in coverage from 2015. The total volume of foreign trade was increased by 5.74% and its value was greater than 26 billion KM. The European Union remains Bosnia and Herzegovina's most significant foreign trade partner for the volume of exchanges and its participation is 70.7% in the total volume of exchanges, which means 71% of our exports are heading towards the countries of the European Union. The EU market has been exported goods worth nearly 7 billion KM, which is 5.76% higher than in 2015, with more than 60% of the export coverage of imports from the European Union countries. After the European Union, CEFTA and Bosnia and Herzegovina participated with 15.5%, with Bosnia and Herzegovina exporting goods to the CEFTA market in 2016 to 30 values higher than a billion and 500 million KM, leading to an increase in exports compared to the previous year by 5.79%. This ratio of the value of exports and imports resulted in a coverage of imports in '16. of almost 59%. The participation of the EFTA and other countries includes... exports. The most significant partner of the EFTA is Switzerland, which almost makes all trade, foreign trade in the area. In 2016, imports from Switzerland decreased by 39%, while exports increased by 13.8%. Among the so-called The other markets most important among trade partners are Turkey and then China. In 2016, exchanges with Turkey amounted to almost a billion KM, exports to Turkey amounted to more than 400 million KM and increased compared to '15. 13%. The export coverage was more than 67%. With the People's Republic of China, reduced imports were observed with slight export growth, with the exchange mainly being carried out in the textile industry. Over 7 billion KM's exports to the CEFTA market amounted to more than 1.5 billion KM in 2016, according to Bosnia and Herzegovina's main trading partners. The highest rate of exports of goods was seen in Slovenia 7.8%, Serbia 6.8%, Croatia 6.5% and Germany 4.7%, respectively. This trend continued in 2017, so in the first quarter of '17. We have an increase in exports of 16.5%, according to CEFTA countries by 36% or more than 1.3 billion KM and 13%, respectively, by the European Union, by 550 million KM. The faster pace of export growth from imports has contributed to the fact that export coverage has never been recorded by almost 62, 61% so far. At the same time, tourism growth was also higher by 28%, growth in revenues by 4.3%. Bosnia and Herzegovina is still among the 20 countries of the world with the highest number of increases in tourist visits in the last two years, and we are in the sixth place following the increase in the number of tourist visits in the first half of 2017, which speaks of the exceptional potential of this important sector for Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2016 also marked an industrial production growth of 4.3% compared to the previous year. What is particularly important is the fact that this growth in production was followed by an increase in the number of employees within the industry. It can be observed by sectors that all sectors contributed positively to the achieved increase in industrial production in Bosnia and Herzegovina but still the most significant contribution to the growth of total industrial production in Bosnia and Herzegovina was achieved in the context of the Bosnian hergic processing industry, which in 2016, thanks to positive economic developments in the export markets, achieved an increase of more than 3% compared to the previous year. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a moderately in charge of contributing to its fiscal strength and allowing it to count on further financial support from international financial institutions despite limited access to external financing. Compared to the countries in the Bosnia and Herzegovina region, the least in charge is absolute and relatively. Bosnia and Herzegovina's debt is about 6 billion euros, so it's about 40% of our GDP, while it's for example. Serbia's public debt exceeded 25 billion euros, i.e. more than 73% of its GDP, and Bosnia and Herzegovina stands even better than Croatia whose public debt is higher than 40 billion euros and is more than 80% of GDP. In addition to the relatively low debt, Bosnia and Herzegovina also has an unmatched more favourable public debt structure compared to the countries in the environment. In fact, the main part of our public debt is almost 85% of the long-term loans from the World Bank, the EBRD and the EIB with a low interest rate of 0.8 to 1.7% and a long-term repayment deadline, while for example most of Serbia-Croatia's public debt account for short-term loans generated by short-term government bonds of 3 to 6 years, our deadlines have been paid for 20 years, and a high interest rate ranging from 4 to 6%. 31 All reforms have led to the opening of thousands of jobs, which is an optimistic trend in order to address the most important macroeconomic and social problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is a question of unemployment especially among young people. But I want to make it very clear that the trends are promising but that we are not satisfied and that we will only be satisfied when the benefits of the reforms implemented can be felt by all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and when conditions are created that everyone can live from their work. I would also like to point out that significant progress has also been made in sectoral areas, particularly in the context of meeting the conditions for the development and adoption of whole-state strategic documents. A strategy for the approximation of EU legislation in the field of environmental protection has been adopted, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has ratified the Paris Agreement with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, making it the first country in the South East European region to ratify the Agreement. In the area of transport, we adopted a Framework Transport Strategy that enabled us to access new funds, and was also adopted at the level of the Council of Ministers a draft law on electronic communications. The first phase of digitisation was completed, and in October 2016 a signal was released, a tv signal whose capacities can be used by public broadcasters and others
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19219	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denis Zvizdić, for the detailed presentation. Now we have a debate. The first person to speak was representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19220	I'd like to thank the chairman. 34 Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, MPs today did not come here to ask you anything, we have a monthly session where we do so. And we should have one year, and we don't have a joint session of both homes where we ask questions, you answer. Today's session has something completely different on the agenda, which is the Work Report. Today we should talk without you listening to us for a change. If I didn't know who the head of the state government is, and I was just listening to the exposure, I'd think the chairman of the Council of Minister Branko Kockica, because you know what he says -- that's where the chocolate houses are, the windows are made of marmalade, so it looks so fairy-talely what you've been talking about for 47-8 minutes now. Unfortunately, this is fairy tale, but not just fairy tale, this is completely discounted by the reality in which citizens live. I think you've chosen an extremely wrong strategy but it's not my place to advise you. You said we were going with an argument. I am at the beginning of the term of office when you took an oath, proposed the Council of Ministers' composition, said that all men and you are slaves of spoken words. You went out for a pay phone and made promises to both the MPs and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to whom you addressed in a direct TV broadcast. And that's why I'm going to comment on some of the things you promised, and you didn't. First of all, you said you wanted to point out that the Council of Ministers will not intend to assume any responsibilities that are not in line with the BiH Constitution, but that you will also not allow the powers that belong to Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Constitution to be derivated. As a result, through the coordination mechanism cantons have become a subject of foreign policy, and this same coordination mechanism works only in your reports. You also said that you would make Bosnia and Herzegovina a better and more prosperous state, a society of equal odds for all its peoples and citizens. I don't know how long you're with this promise, but I do know where your party manages these processes and determines whether this will be a society of equal odds for all its peoples that's not the case. In Bosnia and Herzegovina's capital, you have unilateral administrative and supervisory committees. And no one can point a finger at any other Bosnian-Herzegovina town when in the capital the situation is like that. I'm going to Preskočić this where you praised the previous Council of Ministers and your kolega Bevanda, a little bit different today. NATO - We have been told as lawmakers on several occasions not to wait long enough, we will do it under the hat and register it. Since it's not happening that you know from this session and beyond at each session, we're going to ask individually what's with which location. It's not going to Republika Srpska, tell us what's not working, what about these 15 in the Federation. There were 63 perspectives now 57, so whether our strategy is to reduce the number of perspective locations to meet the condition. Let's declare they're not there, and we're in NATO. We'll talk about this at the next sessions. You promised to continue your activities in the realization of Annex VII – return, ensuring the equality of peoples and citizens through the implementation of measures to build trust and relax interethnic relations. Interethnic relations in one period last year were so relaxed that the topic three times a week was whether to war. How many returnees and where they were returned on the basis of what you were talking about. The role of the Directorate for European Integration will be restored and strengthened, both in its basic competences, in the process of finalising the coordination mechanism. People about the coordination mechanism read in the paper as well as MPs. Key priorities in public administration reform in the coming period will be aimed at strengthening economic potential. When I say that, first of all, I mean simplifying administrative decision-making, taking responsibility and, of course, listening to the voices of the businessmen is understood. As the voice of the businessman is heard, it is best to say that for two months you were unable to respond to the request of 30,000 businessmen to amend the VAT Act. Mr Bevanda has sent a reply to the chair of the Board of Directors for Direct Taxation, but the Council of Ministers has absolutely no position on this, although the Council of Ministers has also been asked 35 to respond to this request. You have another one in the process, but, here, that I'm not telling you right now, it's about pro-longing the VAT payment deadline from 10th to the last day of the month, which is also a requirement of more than 30,000 businessmen. The National Security Council, you promised at a pay phone in a direct TV broadcast and you promised the Security Policy Strategy 2015-2025. Neither the National Security Council nor the Strategy. You said the arguments. We will pay particular attention to those sectors... we have comparative and competitive advantages, primarily energy. Energy, here is today Minister Šarović and I have made statements to the media regarding the usurpation of our natural resources by neighbours for which there is no adequate basis at contract level. I don't know what happened at a meeting with a number of statesmen from neighbouring countries and if you've raised this issue. The strategic sector, then you said, which I want specifically... is the agriculture sector, rural development, the production of healthy food, etc. What happened to this, what was done? What about the blue diesel? The strategy of the comprehensive development of agriculture, as long as the strategy, when we see it, exists, is there anything to do with it. The formation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development at the state level will be necessary, including the necessary move. How long have you been with that? Do you know who's the minister of the future? I'm skipping... there's not much time, but here's just a few more things. The adoption of the Law on Strategic Investments in Bosnia and Herzegovina – how long is this Law, when will it be in Parliament? Here, we are free in Parliament, there is no law at all, let us adopt it. The formation of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Bosnia and Herzegovina – what about the Bank? You then said that the issue would be treated only after very serious and above all professional analyses and evidence of positive effects on the overall economic and financial fiscal system. All the questions that have been asked, and they're ticklish, they've lost their answers. And one of the last topics I'm going to deal with, because I don't have as much time as you have, the area of culture, that's when you said -- I want to make a special point, and I can't, and it won't be put on the sidelines because culture is one of the most important brands of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that sense, you said then – deeply esteeming the cultural achievements of all constituent peoples should underline that the culture of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a product of mixing and intertwining the culture of all its peoples and citizens who live here, etc., etc. You spoke very nicely then. What's the score? The torn-up National Monuments Commission, although you did not do so, is the result of the Presidency, but a decision has been made to build on the foundations of a monument of a thousand and some years in the centre of Sarajevo real business premises. And I asked you last time, you said I'd get a written answer, of course I didn't get that answer. Meanwhile, in the camera, people said it was a decision made and that in the heart of Basharshia, a business space will be built on the 16th century national monument, there will also be a project. I still insist that you provide me with an answer. A special priority, you stated then – creating conditions for young people to stay in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to bind their professional and family ambitions to their homeland. To this end, you said – bring the National Youth Strategy 2015-2025. Young people go, there's no strategy on the map. And since I'm going to be out of time, and the chairman will be zealously alerted, I'm just going to say two sentences in the end. None of this mention, then you said, will be possible without your support, or Parliament's support. and this is a prerequisite for effective and reform action. [[Employee is warned on time]] Now, you've just fallen here, you've completely slipped in relation to Parliament. So, MPs of the majority when cameras and microphones aren't on as well as we are expressing our frustration with your relationship with the Parliament chosen by the Council of Ministers. The thing, just the chairman, with whom I agree, half the sentence, says the chairman at the end – I wish you every good and good Bog preserves our homeland of Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[Employee is warned on time]] Here we agree, and I wish you every good, no matter how politically you end up and Bog help you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19221	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19222	You know what, I was in a dilemma about whether my colleague Magazinović was answering because, therefore, he tried to speak even nicer than Mr. Zvizdić said, so he tried to make an impression. But on this occasion, I just decided that one inaccurate, in my opinion, is to correct what he said, and there are others, but I will not talk about everyone, but when he was talking about the coordination mechanism, so for the sake of the public above all, the coordination mechanism is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the coordination mechanism is neither a commission for foreign affairs, the coordination mechanism is a body that needs to be helped in the process of European integration, as far as I understand it, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has one vote and that it has a regulated internal body, that respects the internal structure, the Constitution and all that comes from that is the very role of the canton, or county, the canton as he said I speak county. So, they have constitutional powers and none, they have no constitutional authority of foreign policy, nor does it have a co-ordination mechanism so I don't think we would still be able to confuse the public with what Mr Magazinović stands for, and it's not the first time he's said, so without the participation of the counties in this process of European integration, which has its constitutional powers, so we won't be able to get to the point that, in these questionnaires, we are correctly answering those who are looking for answers to the questions that have been sent to us without saying that we are going to spend everything we need to do to become a member of the European Union. So, just correcting how much I understood what he was saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19223	Okay, thank you. Discussion, MP jasmin Emrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and a warm welcome to the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this review on the 2016 Council of Ministers' Work Report, I would like to say that this new reporting methodology, which was established by the Council of Ministers in May last year when a new Guidelines on how to prepare the annual work programme and reporting on the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina was adopted, made it further difficult to consider and search the document in question because it differs significantly from the earlier content, structure and form of the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. The earlier methodology for drawing up the report on the work of the Council of Ministers included specific thematic units in which activities and conditions were reported in areas covered by the departments, independent administrative organisations and individual bodies of the Council of Ministers, and commissions of the House of Representatives discussed such reports each of their respective competences. This new way of reporting annually on the work of the Council of Ministers provides a summary analysis of the implementation of the Council of Ministers' Annual Work Programme Action Plan and is not suitable for consideration by committees because there are no separate thematic units to be evaluated by the relevant committees. Perhaps because I first encountered this type of reporting, I must say that studying the same is a very complex process, and that I have worked very hard to gather the information I need to discuss and evaluate it. By studying the Council of Ministers' 2016 work report, I have concluded that this new 37 cosmetics reporting should replace the essence, and that it wants only formal procedures to be met, and many important issues are not being opened, nor are they cited for the preservation of the apparent harmony in the relations of ruling political entities. However, an essential and comprehensive report on the work of the Council of Ministers cannot be corrected by formal and, most of all, the girl's approach to reporting, such as the following quoted in the report on page 3 where it is stated – Bosnia and Herzegovina at the end of 2016, recorded a significant improvement in economic parameters compared to the last decade, the biggest revenues, the smallest debt in the region, and a significant increase in the number of employees. There are no further arguments in the text, or sources based on which such a claim is made. On this point, I ask the Council of Ministers - which reforms were carried out in 2016 to significantly improve economic parameters compared to the last 10 years, i.e. why did the Council of Ministers in this report not cite such activities in 2016 so that we can see what measures led to such improvements in economic parameters? Of course, I have made an insight into all the proposed laws by the Council of Ministers in 2016, I have not recognised any proposed law that would affect the improvement of economic parameters in such a short time, and I believe that this claim is exaggerated and unobstructed. This is a very serious claim that had to be supported by arguments, statistics and figures. It would have been realistic if the Council of Ministers had already described the data from the BiH Statistics Agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which said in December 2016 that the total number of persons employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina was 737.954, and registered 510.022 unemployed, which shows that the number of unemployed almost caught up with the number of employees and paints a very unfavourable environment for new jobs and employment. The following praises on page 3 of this report – parallel to the activities on the European road – are also interesting to focus on economic growth and development, resulting in the growth of vital economic parameters and strengthening of the rule of law. I have not seen, nor felt this strong wave of improvement in vital economic parameters, and that the same is due to the work or the result of the Council of Ministers' work in 2016. What reform laws have been proposed in 2016 by the Council of Ministers that they have equally affected the improvement of the economic and economic environment and the strengthening of the rule of law? How can it be claimed that the strong rule of law in 2016 has been adopted by the Council of Ministers since the planned 14 laws in the area of the Justice Council only six, three of which were adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? This report should also indicate the essential changes made, visible and measurable indicators showing an objective picture of the existing situation, and suggest continued progress on the European pathway. In this manner and format of reporting, I am a list and a description of the events and experiences of these activities is not determined or is so important, it is essential and measurable indicators to achieve the objective. That in this report is very, very little. This report also has a large number of mixed data to show economic growth and development, but it is not specified that the real sector which I am responsible for is such indicators and that public authorities and administrations have a very low credit for these economic and economic shifts. The characteristics of this report is that the BiH Council of Ministers lists only those indicators that will present the positive side of this reporting period without regard to objective reporting. This is proof that the number of laws adopted, strategies, decisions and conclusions without data on the plan is the same and the percentage of enforcement in relation to the plan. When the 2016 Council of Ministers' Work Report was completed with previous-term reports, then the situation was the following, in part of the Report of Legislative Activities – in 2013, the Council of Ministers established 30 drafts of the law, in 2014, 20 drafts of the law, in 2015 30 drafts of the law, and in 2016 25 drafts of the law. On the basis of these indicators 38, it can be concluded that the Council of Ministers' legislative activity in 2016 is almost at its lowest level and it is even defeating from 2014 which was the election year, and it is understood that then the Council of Ministers' legislative activity was weakened. In the four-year period from 2013 to 2016, the Council of Ministers identified the minimum number of proposals for new laws during the reporting period. It is important to note that the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2016 was created, prepared and adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers, and that the Parliamentary Assembly does not participate or adopt the same. It is therefore worrying that the Council of Ministers does not carry out activities that they plan and determine on their own. In 2016, under the Work Programme, the Council of Ministers planned to establish 65 draft laws. On page 1 of this Report, it was stated that during the Council of Ministers' report period 19 drafts of the Law, however, in Part Three of the Report, the report on the laws planned for the Annual Work Programme of the Council of Ministers stated, by 187 to 201 in column 5, that it was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 25 drafts of the Law, including new laws and amendments and additions to the law. So I would ask the Council of Ministers to introduce us to the exact information on page one or part three of this report. I would understand these mistakes if the Council of Ministers had passed 150 and more laws over the year, so that they could not be counted correctly, but that 25 laws could not be counted correctly, which is very worrying to me also for this Council of Ministers' meeting. Of the planned 65 drafts of the Council of Ministers' Law, 15 new draft laws and 10 amendments to the law have been established during the report period, a total of 38% compared to the plan. Based on such a percentage of the implementation of the legislative plan, the Council of Ministers does not have a passing assessment. Why the planned legislative activities of the Council of Ministers are so weak and low in 2016 are not justified or justified in this Report. When a data collection is carried out from this Report with data from an earlier period in the part of the collection of public revenue, then the situation is next. In 2013, a total of EUR 5,882 billion was collected in the Single Account of the Directorate for indirect taxation of KM 5,882 billion, 2014. - 6.241 billion, 2015. - 6,354 billion, 2016. - 6.6 billion. It's very important these indicators that The Single Account of the Indirect Taxation Authority has been growing steadily and has increased by 718 million KM in 2016 compared to 2013. [[Employee is warned on time]] Although the total gross revenues are on a steady rise, it is not clear why the Council of Ministers has persistently proposed legal solutions that would, above all, affect citizens' money and increase the cost of living in increasingly poor categories. these countries. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19225	Thank you. Representative Šemsudim Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19226	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests. Here, we have seen a presentation by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is actually a summary of the Council of Ministers' 2016 work report, which is on 320 pages. And in fact, this summary is about the results of this Council of Ministers' work. Of course, for us MPs it was very difficult to read 320 pages from which we could draw what he was talking about and the chairman of the Council of Ministers himself, but it seems to me that a better approach would be to actually have a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, at least according to Parliament, is based on that conclusion of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission which reads that the report should be based on the Council of Ministers' work plan, because it would certainly have one more realistic picture of the Council of Ministers' work, because they would have comparable indicators. Of course, it depends not all on the Council of Ministers but also on us in the House of Representatives who should define what kind of report we really want from the Council of Ministers. It's not just, it's not just the quality of the Council of Ministers' work, the number of laws passed, you know, you have a lot of laws already passed in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, and it's also making sublegal acts, various regulations, instructions, etc., etc., which certainly speaks of the quantitative part of the Council of Ministers' work. You know, we're in a position to constantly compare the Council of Ministers to the previous or further, even the previous composition of the Council of Ministers. I am sure that according to the number of laws adopted, the Council of Ministers' composition from the time of the chairman Adnan Terzić was one of the most successful, but then the environment was also positive in terms of building the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina because we had a high representative in full capacity who was strong support, not only to the Council of Ministers, but to all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And, of course, of the Council of Ministers' composition, we had afterwards the Council of Ministers led by Mr Špirić, as one of the most unsuccessful members of the Council of Ministers, so we had the Council of Ministers headed by Mr Bevanda, so we had, let's remember, and the adoption of the Fiscal Framework for four years, which was actually one frame and noose around the neck of the future composition of ministers, etc., etc. These are all the elements that affect the environment in which the Council of Ministers works, and here's what we have today in this composition. It seems to me that it may not have referred enough to this report on the work of the Council of Ministers or that there was not enough time for the chairman to look back more closely on the fight against corruption in terms of success. You know, the strategy okay, yes, but it seems to me that the measures and actions we all take together as a Bosnian Herzegovina society aren't enough to actually find an answer when it comes to fighting corruption, because it seems to me that the growing function is also the number of those involved in corrupt activities. So I think maybe we should do a lot more, focus more on this issue. Are citizens happier or happier today? It is a key response when it comes to the quality of the Council of Ministers' work. Of course, that answer cannot be given by me, it can only be a feeling for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to say whether today every citizen, the average citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is happier or not. According to these economic parameters, which are obviously all of them in a growing position should the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina feel happier. Is that so, of course, let the estimates themselves. Does the Council of Ministers take care of our bh national interests? I'm saying, uh, national interest means our state interests. I'm saying this from a point of view, here I find insufficient concern about the construction of the Peljega Bridge, one of the points of the agenda being today, here at this session is the Information on activities on the construction of the Pelje Bridge. It seems to me that good neighbourly relations should certainly be built, but not to the harm of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whoever it is from the neighbours. So let's remember several times, colleagues have been asking questions about the use of hydropotentials, both towards Croatia and Serbia at Drina, and towards Montenegro, etc. It seems to me that we do not have an adequate answer, you know, as soon as you ask that question the answer is in terms – you know, don't disturb our relations with our neighbours. Yeah, but does that mean we need to sell out this country to be satisfied with our neighbors? I don't think so. It is obvious, therefore, that the use of hydropotentials that cause damage, so to speak, to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the extent that they live in which our neighbours benefit. soga, I think the Council of Ministers needs special attention to do so. Also when it comes to foreign trade, we have export growth, but we have import growth. It seems to me that we are losing a little bit of a step when it comes to, at least these seven months this year, when it comes to the external trade coverage of exports by import, that we have a slight stalemate. So that growing function that we had in 2016, which is also the subject, here, this report on the work of the Council of Ministers, I'm afraid that this trend will not continue, but that it will still be a level... This is what I'm saying from the aspect of foreign policy that the Presidency is responsible for. Look, we may not have the political agreement that, here, we recognise Kosovo as a state, it's quite a political reality, but if the Republic of Serbia can uninterruptedly, with existing documents, mutual recognition of documents that citizens move to Kosovo's premises and, of course, develop economic activity, we have a situation that we have a very rigorous visa regime with Kosovo for reasons, I am saying this for reasons of preventing economic activity towards Kosovo, because you know Energoinvest and other major businesses from Bosnia and Herzegovina have had all kinds of business activities in all of our former Yugoslav countries. But today our repairmen can't leave until they get a visa, so the train passed. It's one of the problems, so it's one of the obstacles to normal economic activity. What's our economic stability? So, here, there was a speech in this presentation, I don't want to talk about it. Then the question of openness of the market, you know we have and we have a signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement and we have a fully open market with the European Union, we are not enough in the last few, here, years, so I can say for 15 years, we haven't taken care of enough of the problems that can hit us and which are now on the dream. And we have a completely open market today and we don't have a protected bh production when it comes to the market. Unfortunately, we haven't even done enough to define the regulators that need to regulate it. We have, here, this controversial Excise Act where we have the oil and oil products market, we have a situation today that we have a huge number of oil and oil sales sites, none of which have been shut down. Why? Because everybody, it's worth it to everyone to do the job, because the extra profit is big, and we're trying to impose some more pressure, so to speak, to increase the retail price of oil and oil derivatives without regulating that market. So we must not leave the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to those lobbys that negotiate with each other to form a retail price. Monetary stability, here's what we had a chance with the Central Bank report. Then, the safety of the citizens. Do the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina feel safer today than in previous Council of Ministers' meetings? I, I seem to share the opinion of a common man that today the security situation is more stable than it was in earlier years, regardless of these extraordinary events and moments when, here as some colleagues say, they asked whether there would be a war There will be no war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to which the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina feel much safer. [[Employee warns on time]] I, just for a little while, means, then the media blockades, we have today the situation that, unfortunately, this overall environment and the media create not only, here, the Council of Ministers, Parliament or the institutions of the system. Therefore, I think we all need to promote the building of freedom, free society, the building of justice and a fair society together. Every decision we make and every law we make if the unjust promotes it completely, I bend the opposite. [[Employee is warned on time]] And... if this were short, which were obstacles that the Council of Ministers would have been more successful, were political, legal, humane, foreign policy, what kind of commitment, meaning, this Council of Ministers' composition in terms of , whether it is NATO and the European Union, whether it is just two political goals or whether we do not have political consent and unity in... terms. [[Employee is warned on time]] 41
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19227	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19228	at the end – working conditions...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19229	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović, for a minute I tolerate maximum.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19230	unstable because we don't have a defined political majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19231	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19233	Thank you. Mr. Senad Šepić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19234	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Some of my colleagues, here, had already mentioned and commented on the exposés we listened to two years ago. It would be, it would be a lot to add to what we just heard, but here I am going to skip that part. So, I suggest you read it a little bit, look at it, you answer yourself how pleased you are with what you told us here almost an hour ago when you were appointed two years ago. So, the best was and, I would say, the most well-meaning, most useful approach for all of us, that each of us would examine what it was that he actually took over on his back, what he promised, and how much later he was satisfied with what he was saying and what he did. Work programme, every year the Council of Ministers just do your work programme, you answer for yourself how, how pleased you are with the realization of what you planned. So how realized is it from what you planned. You mentioned that one of the basic things is to dynamicise the process of European integration, and the fact is that there are some things that have started. So it's also a fact that for many years we've had a complete stalemate on the European path, and if I were to say it just like that, you're looking at it as a relationship to what you've found, anything that happened, we can talk about someone, a result. How much further does this continuity have and how much this actually follows the expected need, try to give yourself the best answer. One of my colleagues has already mentioned, say, a relationship to military property, a book of property. So if we have this kind of direct political problem in Republika Srpska, what about what we need to do, say, here in the Federation of BiH, where we can't say that we have the most direct, I would say, political obstruction. Look also at the letter of intent that you have made together with the governments of entities and which, this one, you have agreed with international institutions, with the IMF, with the World Bank, look at the deadlines there, in six or seven areas. You will see what you are and within what period you have promised to stabilise the public, this, income, public administration reform, attitude towards 42 health care, this, health sector, education sector, social sector. So look at the deadlines that you signed and agreed with them and tell them whether you are satisfied in that sense and what your relationship to what you have signed and the relationship is compared to what you have realized so far. I have spoken more than once about the need to adopt an integration programme, a programme to integrate Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union. So if we had a programme to integrate Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union, a lot of these things we're saying here today, when it comes to some deadlines, obligations, plans, institutions, levels that need to be done in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would be more clear. You would, therefore, be much more precise here today when you tell us about this report, in one sense and more credible, but what is therefore a commitment, you are the one who should represent the engine to prepare, in this sense, these documents, to arrange them, to make that kind of conversation and arrangements in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to actually be the ones who will offer these problems and offer solutions to these problems. Look, here you've said something, how much Bosnia and Herzegovina has taken advantage of the possibility, the possibility of funds and funds that give us, uh, the countries of the European Union, or that the European Union is giving us through the Western Balkans programme, related to infrastructure. Take a look at it and compare it with the relationship of other countries around it, as much as Serbia is using these funds, how much Montenegro, as far as Macedonia as we're using. What is the usability of IPA funds, here you said something about what you found, but you also didn't give any convincing answer afterwards what it is that you have offered as a new solution to what was before, we are all aware of what it was before, but what it is today, with which you are actually using the idea today, initiatives and opportunities to go towards the European Union and towards those who determine which capacity and in which form the IPA funds will come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. What's a fact, so that's what's in your report, 19 laws in one year. Someone wrote in the press that it was less than one law per member of the Council of Ministers. In the situation where we've been standing for years, in a situation where we have so much stalemate, so that's what you're actually like as a government and as a Council of Ministers you've shown as your initiative, 19 laws proposed in a year. Now, another thing. I am very aware of the political environment, I know what you found in the Council of Ministers, I know well and we know well, so the relationship and the past, the past Council of Ministers and roles and Lagumdžija and Dodik and what we have generally had in the past term. What's a fact is that there are certain parameters, so when we look at them like this, on paper, they can show certain positive trends. So there are also parameters that say that once upon a time we were all in recession, so now we're all starting to get out of recession. There is also the fact that until two years ago we had a total stalemate, a complete blockade on the European road, and before this Council of Ministers came, a new EU approach for Bosnia and Herzegovina was taking place. So this Council of Ministers has gone much better, as I would say, to the environment, to a much better situation for some progress, for some development, for some more concrete work, than was the case until then. What's particularly important here, therefore, when we talk about whether we're satisfied with what the Council of Ministers did is let's say what our government's image is today, what the image is today, let's say the Council of Ministers in the world. So, take it, and compare the chairman, you said here that you organised a summit of heads of government, you counted 15 countries, delegations that were coming, so delegations came, one prime minister, one country, so take and do an analysis and see how many of your colleagues in Croatia, in Montenegro, Serbia, how many statesmen, the prime minister of his rank, come to him in a year, let's say how many of these statesmen in the world, in Europe, in America, in the whole, as they call it, the world. You'll see about, when you want to objectively observe, how much you've managed to build an image and get the situation serious and represent the country 43 the way it's supposed to be. You'll see, for example, through this relationship of serious countries, serious people towards you and everything you're actually doing. Someone here from my colleagues mentioned earlier, it's a key thing when we talk about someone, ourselves, so, and especially people who run, run the process, whether we live in Bosnia and Herzegovina today better. So are people in Bosnia and Herzegovina living better, do they have a better, better standard, do they feel better, so are they safer? I don't exactly share what's called an optimistic approach, whether people are safer. You know why I don't share? Because nearly 150,000 people left Bosnia and Herzegovina in the term of office of this government and this Council of Ministers. I've told you so many times here, in this, in these benches. So, I think most of us sitting here are coming from cities where the maltenes disappear all, what's called, settlements. I come from a place where people leave every day, so the whole families move out. Mr. Chairman, you can make us slides of whatever you want, the fact is how people feel, how much they have that security, does they recognize what you're doing as something that's positive, is actually talking about how many people leave this country. So the whole family is leaving this country. You remember, I've been here for almost two years in Parliament talking about the need to solve one of the most banal ones, as I would say, the problem, to expand some tapes, to cross people we haven't been able to secure their lives here, the perspective here. So what you're saying, this pink picture that you're presenting, the whole families are moving out, their main problem right now is that they're not waiting at that border crossing two or three hours in those columns, but that the Council of Ministers and Government, which is your job, it's not a canton, or the Federation, or any other level, let's just say that people can cross the border with dignity in half an hour or in about 15 minutes, that they don't wait two or three hours at the border crossings. You know the kind of relationship you've had to this so small, banal example. And if in that example, we can't show some capacity to recognize, to recognize the problem of an ordinary man, everything else we're talking about is totally pink, I'd say, a story that people don't understand, or, believe me, they won't, they don't want to understand. And that's why I want to speak honestly and well on purpose about all this stuff. When we have all this in mind, this report and your work, therefore, can't have a positive grade, can't have a passing grade. The independent bloc will vote against such a report, therefore, with a desire that everything we say today and everything you hear from other colleagues, understand and accept as, I would say, well-intentioned, highly positive and well-intentioned criticism, a highly positive and well-intentioned approach to try to change, to try to fix yourself, to simply try to be more realistic, to get down, to say, on the ground and to these people you represent to understand them and to hear them in that sense, to understand what their problems are and to try to find an answer. So, in relation to the Council of Ministers, we will further determine how much you will have the capacity to today, therefore, understand in this form everything in this sense that your, uh, next role. That's why, as I said, we'll be against the report today. Furthermore, since some axis of Dodik, Čović, is mentioned, changes, the vote of the Council of Ministers, so we will never be a part of such policies, part of such destructive things, but we will also seek solutions positive, that this Council, The Council of Ministers, therefore, is the state government to be different, to be better. [[Employee is warned on time]] Whether the one sitting here or another, that's the thing that we're going to talk about in the next period and for which we're going to look for the best possible solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19235	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19236	I thank the chairman. So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers in his presentation on the 2016 Council of Ministers' Work Report says – impressive progress. I would say that these are difficult words too when we see this Report, but then I will use this word and I will say that the impressive picture today in Parliament, or the House of Representatives, is that we have a report, or a presentation, that the chairman addressed us before the discussion, that, whether the chairman of the College invited him to address it, which is a historic moment because so far we have not had this practice, even if we had some initiatives on the agenda, when it discussed them, so we sought answers from the chairman and the Council of Ministers, of course, were denied for their answers. So, congratulations on this step to address us as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who, of course, did not convince me in his discussion of this impressive progress, nor convinced me that this is a European year for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, but for who. Is it for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state or for individual departure from Bosnia and Herzegovina? Therefore, I believe that this report on the work of the Council of Ministers should have been predominantly in the opening section after your relationship with the decisions on annual planning of work and the new methodology, which should have included one report on the demographic picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or how many of us died, how many were born, how much had been evicted, so let's see, that we don't really know who we're working for this European time. Progress that is impressive, according to the chairman, I don't know who we'll probably be entering the European Union individually, but Bosnia and Herzegovina with this kind of work will certainly not be long. The chairman mentioned, of course, the IPA funds and how much we lost at the annual level, so he mentioned two sectoral strategies, which is for those 35, as far as we should have overall sectoral strategies, adopted two, are not worth mentioning. And that's, of course, what you said right away was that it's because of earlier calls. I would disagree, or you can, that we can discuss and in such a way as to organise maybe that joint session, which we and the Rules of Procedure should have been organised long ago, both homes with the Council of Ministers and to create one of the companies that were what they were, what they were, what they were today, but even in those previous meetings, they were almost sitting the same parties that they are sitting today. So the question arises why look back at something that was. Why didn't you offer us answers, why didn't you, or this Council of Ministers, adopt some of the strategies? And my key question is why the Council of Ministers, here we are not to treat or mention previous calls, let's say this Council of Ministers adopted an initiative, which you as members of the College referred to the Council of Ministers, which was my initiative, about the state of gender equality, that is, the Council of Ministers in their reports, and starting with 2016, to submit a review of gender equality in all individual ministries. I, too, received a reply from the Council of Ministers on 18 October, where it says that the initiative was adopted unanimously, the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers is tasked with delivering this information as part of the Council of Ministers' Work Report. When you look at the report on the work of the Council of Ministers, of course, you won't find that information and I can sort of figure out that because of the convocation she is, only two women ministers, and I believe that today for Mrs. Borovac, or Minister Borovac, is an impressive picture because she is not lonely, on this side, so sits down all her colleagues and colleagues and I understand that you are not committed to equality. But here, I'm going to start to ask, when you mention impressive progress and employment, or growth in the industrial sector, and employment in the industrial sector, I'm actually interested, because when you ask a question, some ministers immediately fence up and say we don't have jurisdiction, that's incurring in entity competence, we only have a co-ordinated role -- how could you industry, so we 45 don't have a level of industry, we have these public sectors where party personnel are employed, who is employed in which industry and which entity, and do you keep track of some points that maybe some other government has made? And when you mention it already in the context of that, I'm going to ask about what you should have provided me, gender equality, how many women you've employed in these industries, or industrial production, then I'm going to ask how many people with disabilities are employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, because we know that you should have done something to improve the situation of people with disabilities, and we know that nothing has been done in the last seven years. So he mentioned Mr. Chairman of neighbouring countries' duties and how much they were in charge, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina did not record such duties. Of course, you were supposed to build a company, so let's see how much they, these neighbouring countries, built miles, or the infrastructure of traffic, have improved according to these borrowings, and how much we're in charge of patching up budget holes and we don't even have those 8 billion revenues from current excises, we don't have a mile of highway built. So there's a lot that's not impressive in this report, and especially not after what the chairman said. Of course, if he were such an impressive advance in 2016, I don't think that in 2017, members of the Presidency would have to blush in front of some European officials, because we've read it in the media, that red as they stand in front of them, and probably in 2017, Mr. Zvizdić wouldn't have received letters from Mr. Han, so I'm guessing that in the following presentation for 2017, you'll quote and quote some allegations from that letter to show us once what was written in Mr. Han's letter sent to you. So, when we compare the beginning of your opening part in the report, I think, what I counted in the planned, or plan of the Council of Ministers' work, was 60 laws planned, 16 was adopted, so 26.6%. This is something that the Democratic Front Club will absolutely define as the first argument that we do not give, that is, to plead negatively against this report. Also, in your Report on Public Administration Reform has not been mentioned in a way that has been done on this matter, but also in your oral presentation, why for the reason that nothing has been done with public administration reforms, and why it would be because we see that in some letters you are being criticised as chairman, to slow down a little with employment, or the Office for Auditing Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina makes its recommendation that what you are hiring through a contract of action, that you should slow down a little with this because there are no envisaged, by systematization, these jobs. Also, the Law on Sports was adopted in this House and the House of Peoples, and one new item in this Law was to improve the position of persons with disabilities, but also less gender, and so it was to introduce a jender budgeting. Of course, the Sport Act is not respected, or it is not in this Report, what has been done, how much we have improved this area according to the Law. About culture, science and others not to talk, we know that culture has advanced as much as there is a good back in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to assign 100,000 KM. I'm still waiting for the Commission's report, from Mr. Minister of Civil Affairs, of course I haven't received it yet. And since you have somehow based your exposure on this European path and steps made, here I will refer to what is in the report, and says – the programme of integration between Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union, that is the European Integration Directorate, no political consent has been reached, the updated methodology for the development of the integration programme has not been reached, the report on the implementation of the SAA for the first six months of 2016, no political consensus has been reached, answers to questions from the questionnaire for 35 areas, says – Bosnia and Herzegovina received Question 09.12., by the end of May 2017, answers are expected, of course, no answers are available today. 46 The methodology for the coordination system in the coordination process has not been reached. So, anything that applies and that would improve and bring Bosnia and Herzegovina closer to the European path at least a little bit, here's the report, Mr. Zvizdić, that's not exactly how you introduced us, or that we seem to be, every day further and further away. What I would suggest to you, since it seems to be debated, your reporting methodology, is that the Action Plan of the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, and already the Action Plan Implementation Report, why at least these codes are not harmonised in such a way as to monitor what has been reserved or written under that code number in the work programme to be seen in action, the realization of the Action Plan whether or not it has been carried out? What is characteristic of the Ministry of Civil Affairs is that it will give in percentages, numerically or descriptively, rather than describing them as just the word "descriptive". Well, then, how are we going to know now why the youth strategy wasn't adopted at the state level and it just says "descriptive", so you didn't tell us why, did you put it together, if you had support, who didn't give support, etc.? So, what you said was that you had 287 parliamentary issues and initiatives, so according to the service records, I don't know what the methodology in the Council of Ministers is, according to the record of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly services, and I thank you for the information delivered, the total number of posted issues and initiatives in 2016 is 308. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Of which 242 responses were provided. We are all witnessing that we appeal almost every session to disrespect the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, for unscheduled answers, to urinate, to send emergencyes, etc. So the methodology for collecting these data, when you're already saying how much you've received the answers, so it's time to say how many of them you've received, and to which you've given the answer, and to which you haven't given the answer. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19237	Thank you. Representative Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome everyone present in the O.R. Here, I'll say a few words about the Council of Ministers' work report, although my colleagues have already said quite a few things before me. I think that we should have considered the Council of Ministers' work report together with the implementation of the 2016 budget, so that we would have some comparative indicators when it comes to the very impact of the Council of Ministers' work, this way we can only talk about some of the planning activities, whether they are realised or not. And we just have in front of us a report on the work of the Council of Ministers for 2016 shown through six reports on the implementation of the planned annual, planned annual work programme of the Council of Ministers. And, here, many complain about the methodology, I think it's not bad, because here we see exactly what the Council of Ministers was planning for 2016, and in what way it has approached the realization, whether this realisation is good or bad, precisely based on those planned activities, not what the Council of Ministers was talking about here, means in one broad way, not based exactly on these planned activities, and we just need to talk about them today. Well, here, I'll just have a few of these planned activities to mention here, both for us here and for the public. So, when it comes to the law reports, the planned annual work programme, if this is an indication of what the Council of Ministers did in 2016, then we can say that the Council of Ministers worked very badly, because it planned 64 legal projects, did not adopt 49.47 so somewhere 76% of the planned activity was not realised. Now, what's behind that? Behind this are very important legal projects that are also on the European path, but are also related to people's lives. And that's the point that we, here, need to talk here today about how live citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are, do they lack these legal solutions that aren't adopted, because they concern the economic progress of the state, and the security that we're talking about here, about a return that isn't finished, etc., etc. Well, here, just a few, means the amendments and additions to the Law on Financing, related to programme budgeting, amendments and additions to the Law on Customs Infringements, amendments and additions to the Insurance Agency Act, the Law amending the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, the Food Act, the Law on Veterinary Law, these are all, all legal solutions which Bosnia and Herzegovina can prevent further when it comes to this approach to the programme, this, the European Union, or failure to comply with obligations when it comes to the previously signed Association Agreement. Then, the Law on the Rights of Cake Victims, the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Police Officers, the Foreign Policy Act, means that it is one set of legal solutions that were not adopted, which are planned in 2016. Furthermore, it is very important to say that in this Report we have a report on sublegal acts planned for 2016, so of 184 sublaws, which are the implementing documents of adopted laws, 131 has not been implemented, which means 71% of these sublegal acts have not been passed for various reasons. So we can pass the law, if we don't have sublaws, it's hard to move forward, further realisation, so it makes sense if we didn't have the law that we didn't even realize a certain sublegal act. When it comes to public investments that are very important, because here we are constantly looking for funds, we want to borrow the state, we want to improve the lives of people in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of this task, and we want to do it 27, so it's not 63, it's 70% of the planned activities. If these are indicators, and I am, because I have such a kind of report, then I can freely say that the Council of Ministers has not done our job well globally, this, except for certain ministries, would be able to talk about them and say which specifically the ministries have done, and in which relationship, this, planned obligations, its obligations and there certainly has those bright examples like the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, civil affairs, and that no, the Ministry of Security in one part and that, here, I'm not saying, uh, further on that subject. I want to say this further, to remind us what the chairman of the Council of Ministers said in his opening speech that the key priorities, he reiterated them here now, are, therefore, the dynamicisation of the European integration process, the MAP for NATO membership, economic growth and development, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, strengthening and improving regional and international co-operation. Here, I'm going to remind us that we haven't met the requirements of Tallinn and that the alliance isn't, so the NATO Alliance hasn't made a decision to activate the Action Plan. It is very important for the security of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it is one essential thing, this, and we, when we speak or submit the report then must say that it is a fundamental thing, what are the reasons why this was not done and what was the problem of the Council of Ministers that such a very important activity, and he planned in the four-year work programme, he did not realize. Although a strategy for the fight against crime and corruption and the Action Plan was adopted and only the Council of Ministers in its Report, this, accepts the finding, notes that they are not satisfied with what has been done in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of this Strategy and this Action Plan. And we shouldn't have been told by the Council of Ministers, we all know that here in Parliament, MPs know that, citizens, because in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are no systems solutions in many segments. Here I will only take the problem of employment which is corruptive activity, it is political, they are employed alike, they are not able to hire, and therefore we have this problem that someone has just talked about, the problem of young people, the departure and the potent biological mass that does not have the opportunity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, thanks to this Council of 48 ministers and all the lower levels of the executive government, that in one system way, means using a system-based way to get employment. Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that should have been said in the Council of Ministers, is a country of mortality, the birth rate is below and we are slowly, and surely we are growing into an old country that will one day disappear. So we'll bring ourselves down if we keep working like this. We have strategies, we have action plans, we fight conditionally against corruption, and then the heads of political parties hire alike, we can't get into a situation where the expertise, the parent's invested resources in the education of their child, and through one systematic way, we can solve this issue. So it's a crucial thing or a major, basic thing in Bosnia and Herzegovina to solve one such issue. We have a catastrophic, if we've talked about anything, then we have to say that we have one catastrophic system of education. If you have an educational institution you have to be good with people who credentialize these higher education institutions to give you that, that accreditation because there are some political people who say—this one can, this one can't. And it's corruption, and it's a crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, we have poor health care, health care of the population, so when we talk about discrimination, we talk about whether the Bošnjak of Srbin, Srbin of Hrvat, Hrvat of Bošnjak, etc., and the biggest discrimination At this point in Bosnia and Herzegovina, this radical health system, the population protection system, is going to end soon. [[Employee is warned on time]] We have a very bad relationship with all the places in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so what we have often talked about is a very bad, unbalanced development. I know these aren't all obligations of the Council of Ministers, but through these laws Which I was just talking about, when we didn't bring, we basically made a very bad environment in the legislative and executive authorities at lower levels. [[Employee is warned on time]] And here, there would be a lot more to talk about, especially about the Council of Ministers' relationship with this Parliament, but here I am. That's it. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19239	Thank you. So, at this point in the O.R., there's no quorum, but it's certainly time for lunch break and I'm now taking a break by 2:30. We'll continue at 2:30 with the debate. Technics, turn on the microphone to the agent. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19241	Thank you very much. As I said, there's no club where you belong, but it doesn't matter, here's if there's a quorum I can start working, and there's no Council of Ministers chairman, and last time we moved the point because of the lack of ministers and the entire Council of Ministers. But it had its own and positive things why the debate with the previous session was delayed, because in the meantime democracy has evaluated in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so we have the situation that SNSD represents HDZ or Hrvat represent Srbin in the BiH Council of Ministers, and that is what is very good, positive, and now 49 we have this situation that almost 2/3 of MPs support this Council of Ministers and that we are slowly, but we are certainly moving towards civil principles or civil principles when it comes to, possible guidelines for changing the BiH Constitution. I tried in this what, the lab Mr. Zvizdić gave us, to write a few, something of these cartoons, so to speak, but for the time being, I didn't, uh, do much because there would be a lot to say about the Council of Ministers and his work in the previous year. When it comes to European integration, it was not difficult to move after the disastrous political moves made in the previous term by the president, former SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija, and which has brought the situation completely, completely flat. Therefore, this slight progress that was in the previous year must be recognised as being completely blocked in 2017. Why? Because the Council of Ministers must accept the fact, including this Parliament, and I myself, that we are not in principle ruling political processes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the political processes are being ruled by those who cancelled this lunch today in Mostar. So it's a real and real fact when it comes to policymaking in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We all know that this coordination system was one of the basic conditions for Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be assessed as positive progress by Bosnia and Herzegovina towards European integration. I still think that this system has stalled and blocked Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it did not need Bosnia and Herzegovina because Bosnia and Herzegovina is the only country the institute has introduced. Bosnia and Herzegovina has a Council of Ministers that co-ordinates other and lower levels of government under the law. We now have a system of co-ordination on ten lists with some hundreds of people participating in the process and slowly taking on the powers of the BiH Council of Ministers. And I am sure that because of the view of politics, and it is not difficult to assess what they are like when it comes to the European Union, when you have those who have taken the political principles of governance in Bosnia and Herzegovina, one looks, one of the leaders looks a little north to the east, one slightly south to the east, and the one that is in Bosnia, he does not know where. So around this European story and real jurisdiction and the real political force, we have one ringishipil that we're probably not going to get out of, and the Council of Ministers, or people sitting there, don't have the guts to say it. We all know that this coordination system was detached in a bar in East Sarajevo and, therefore, it would be good for, most profit in that, by Milorad Dodik and probably the owner of the pub who, who narrated the pub, and it would be good to change her name, because it happened, in Barca, there was a big trick. It would be good to mention the Stabilisation and Association Agreement if we had an analysis and to know what its effects are. So there's no such thing. So perhaps, here, both MPs and I should personally examine the effects of the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. About the questionnaire too, we don't know what time it is, where, who's responsible, did we send the answers, did we translate, did we not translate, so there's no real answer at least in one sentence what's the real problem, what's the problem with the questionnaire. It's a catastrophic figure when it comes to IPA funds and here's the transfer of the ball that's the problem of someone, some previous period, but when you compare countries in the region and you see that Serbia has about a billion and a half, this one, pulling funds from IPA funds, 700,000 Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina 160, 166. There is no indication whether it will at least be better or closer to countries in the region. When it comes to the Talinski process, or as they call it, I would refer more to what is written in Dayton and the Vienna Agreement when it comes to defence, which is a balance of arms between Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am aware of the fact that, that we have new moments in the environment because Croatia has entered NATO alliance and is now following NATO union standards, and Serbia is in response to this getting rockets, and Bosnia and Herzegovina has no money, or does not want to have money to fix the helicopters it already has. There is no right answer or right policy to answer these questions that are very important, crucial and 50 nationally important for Bosnia and Herzegovina. When it comes to this property book, it would be good, therefore, to negotiate with NATO that what is in the court's trial and the court's book, that this could be a long-term process. When will this process be over? The court can decide on a variety of complaints and 10 years. Is there any courage to open a question with NATO that it is not a condition, because it is a matter of court, and by some rule we cannot influence the decisions of the courts. We can hear a lot, therefore, from various meetings that have been discussed both in the region and within Bosnia and Herzegovina on building infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We don't have a metre built highway in three years. We even braked what was to come from these European Union funds, and it was a condition for the signing of this Agreement in Trieste. There's no answer to how our agencies work, there's no bar in the report, so you're witnessing, so we have different views when it comes to the problems we currently have at OSA. What about the other agencies? What about BH television, does the Council of Ministers, unless this Parliament, has the strength to deal with it, have the strength to solve this problem? There's no answer to those questions either. Annex VII, therefore, is not mentioned at all in the report. Is this the completion of the return process? I know that maybe it is. Why? Because it's no longer being invested in it, because no one is looking at the process anymore. I've spoken before, and I confirm it again, it's not sarcasm, it's true, the process of returning, at least when it comes to, I'm talking about Bosniak this part because I know it's probably similar or the same thing, and when it comes to the other two people, the process of returning to smuggling and selling sick heifers in Republika Srpska. How are you going to get the intellectuals back on that principle, the Spanish principle? I don't blame that minister, therefore, whom I respect highly, but it was necessary to sublime that part, because the sum of money is in entity governments when it comes back. How will you attract young people to return? Either this is the process that and what people have returned to emigrate from the area where majority Srbin or majority Bošnjak or majority Hrvat live. Is this the process of re-establishing pure ethnic territories. Who does that suit? These are issues, very important start-ups for this country. I know, so I went through this report, strategies, memorandas, agreements, etc., they are necessary if they are implemented. Where is justice in this country? Fighting corruption, how many counts do we have for corruption in 2016? We don't have nearly one, we don't have almost one. A few days ago, we boast that there was, uh, huge kilos of heroin, no one was arrested. Whose drug is that? Whose heroin is that? Is that a state that protects someone? So these are the questions to which we need and we need to have answers, so these are very, very important answers. Education, therefore, is total chaos, at least when it comes to this Framework Law. [[Employee is warned on time]] So, you a few days ago, let me understand you're replacing the dean of Sarajevo Medical College, but because one of the presidents in this country women will, you don't give that same woman a choice in calling a regular professor even though three people, or as much as necessary, They say there are conditions. [[Employee is warned on time]] So these are catastrophic things, that work principle is not good. Here, all these questions need to be answered, they need to be said, these are crucial questions. for life in this country, and this order of decisions, memoranda, etc., much does not help an ordinary man. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19242	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19243	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I listened very carefully to my esteemed colleague Ahmetović, who is very often, and often gives really justified criticism, but this time, I guess, in the heat of showing how it can be better, 51 made some remarks that really do not stand and that I have to react to. First of all, I don't see what the Council of Ministers has to do with choosing a dean. Here, you're all right, but the Council of Ministers and Deans of the Medical College really don't see anything, I don't see their jurisdiction. Fighting corruption, you say there's no verdict. So don't judge the Council of Ministers, don't process the Council of Ministers. I believe, here, let's say... for our minister, Mektić, that he has the authority to be in prison and convicted, but unfortunately he doesn't, I'm sorry he doesn't. You were talking about IPA funds. First of all, we need to understand that the Council of Ministers is not a government. And, unfortunately, I'm afraid this Council of Ministers is a hostage of overall political relations and hostages and entity governments. It is true that Serbia is withdrawing huge funds, and as I was told in Brussels -- no country in the process of joining the European Union has withdrawn as much IPA funds as Serbia, 98%. They hired experts from Slovenia, gave them money to build projects for them. In our case, unfortunately, it is not so, we lose 20m euros annually, so let me be corrected by respected ministers, only from IPARD funds. Why? Because here I will be free to say, entity agriculture minister Mr. Mirjanić thinks it is not a priority for him, the Rural Development Framework Strategy, that he should not pay attention to it and that he does not need that money, I guess, because he assumes that farmers in Republika Srpska are very good. As for Annex VII and the returnee process, dear colleague Ahmetović, thank Bog in this country I'm ending up with these, their houses. [[Embassy is warned on time]] The second thing is that people, it's been 20 years, and in the meantime, they've made their homes, they've moved away, and they have no intention of, unfortunately, going back to this country, because they've built somewhere out there, the place of its existence. [[Embassy is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19244	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19245	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm a little... colleague Ahmetović, um, I don't think that it was much of a review of the 2016 report, but rather everything that came to his mind, which also has a right, I agree with it, but, behold, some things might still work a little more for the public than I would replicate to him, has the right to think and say whatever he wants. It may not be an impressive progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina in anything, what Mr. Prime Minister's Chairman said, but it is certainly good in relation to the conditions that were in the previous period, so the man said if I understood it well, and certainly not enough as it should be. We can agree on that, and that's the way it is. When you talked about European integrations like that, quite this interesting, and in the last half of the year, you had a report twice in front of you on the status of European integration, so the very special reports that we asked for the conclusions, and you didn't hear from anyone, and that's what I was saying here, so the complete materials and the SPP and everything you were interested in, no one spoke, neither did you. I don't know what you weren't saying back then, but, look, maybe today you were, maybe the presentation was better than it was in those materials back then. 52 When it comes to the MAP, therefore, I don't know how much it's just a matter of the Council of Ministers, but, let's say, I was one of the ones who said I'd rather abolish that condition, or try... that there is no enrollment of military property. In my opinion, it can be registered to any level of government, and given to the military for use for 100 years or a million years, and we can break up with that story once, so we can solve this problem and go into the realisation of the opening of the MAP. But, here, it's also the gentleman... from me got, uh, a proposal, so there were some solutions to get and so approach it that way. When you talked about coming back, uh, you might have been a check and an opportunity to, say, help get the Hrvat back to Travnik where, after a good return attempt in '98. The year happened what happened in Travnik, killing the returnees and the cops, so, and not to this day do we have any of that solved. But here, it's not the subject of this report, so I can essentially agree with what Mrs. Aleksandra Pandurević was saying, so it stands as she said and observed it the way before For me to answer my word. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19246	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19247	Well, let it be written in the report that it's over. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19248	What's that?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19249	So it's over, Annex VII. I don't think so. I don't have a problem, Mr. Lovrinović, that every man I speak by name of no nation, so why, how, and to ask that, so I don't have that problem, so no matter what part, this. In this House, I asked the SDA, so the head of the then SDA Kalesija to hire some Srbin who was out there strikein' in front of the government, so how am I going to ask in Srebrenica to hire a Bošnjak, before, I don't know, 10 years ago? And when it comes to the Framework Agreement, read it, so I mentioned the dean to the dean but I said it wasn't a problem, but the Framework Agreement has made it clear and said the way in which progress is determined in higher school... You have a case because the president's wife, one of the presidents in this country, is not going to choose an extraordinary professor just because she wants to, not because she meets, as the law has said, the conditions. That's why I'm talking about an example of haughtiness and relationships, so versus people who need to educate young generations. And no one is watching or having any order at all in what private universities in Bosnia and Herzegovina are doing. You have great inflation and diplomacy, and professors, and magistrates and everything we have at this point, from never too late to everything we have. So I'm saying we should do it. I understand this methodology, this methodology is The methodology for reporting someone might be in Brussels, but we have to make 53 reports to our citizens of that [[Employee is warned on time]] We work to be understood. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19250	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19251	Mr. Chairman. This could also be intervention as non-compliance with the established agenda. We are not here today to discuss whose wife, nor the work of the Faculty of Medicine and the Dean, but Mr Ahmetović, when, in the context of the correction of the false allegation, when you are already so keenly fighting for the rights of the deans, the removed deanes, Mrs Džuva, then you should know, by the power of the arguments, that we are discussing, if you want to open that discussion, whether decanesa Džuvo taught at the departments for which she has references, whether she was on the subjects she covered with her profession. So don't impute Prime Minister Zvizdić and the Council of Ministers something that happened here. If you have your private misunderstanding with the President of the Party of Democratic Action, Mr. Izetbegović and his wife, pass it on to your private sphere but do not transfer here and honor such a thing to Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19252	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In his address, Prime Minister Zvizdić focused on several points, and in that order I will... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19254	I gave my word to the MPs before you answered the line. Go on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19255	and discuss. Prime Minister Zvizdić first went with the definition of priorities, then dynamicising the process of European integration, and I will discuss it in that order. After a ten-year stalemate, and we are all witnessing that this is how, at least we who have been in Parliament for many years, taking care of the fact that in 2005, negotiations on the CAP and the fact that Croatia was granted candidate status in 2004, Bosnia and Herzegovina was in a difficult stalemate on our European path until 2015, respectively, in '16. in the year when an application for Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership to the European Union was finally accepted in February 2016, and I congratulate both the members of the Presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and his team of associates who have made significant efforts and steps on our European path. And it's something 54 that no one can worship. I must refer to the discussions of some MPs who, officials, international officials, I will mention among them the statement by Mr. Han, Mrs. Mogerina, Mr.... which confirm the commitment to the continuity of European integration and progress in the context of our Council of Ministers' reform programme, which they welcomed, today some of the MPs here respected it, where I cannot agree, of course, with that, because I do not see why... international lawmakers would do so without any need. So, I must say, international officials have praised what the Council of Ministers is doing. For me, it is a very important fact that, despite the very difficult conditions in which the Council of Ministers worked, and the constant attacks by Mr Dodik, who is the president of the smaller Bosnian-Herzegovina entity, have been made to destroy all reforms made in the period '96-2006. when a number of strategic documents have been adopted, in spite of the difficult conditions in which the Council of Ministers works, including the Alliance for Amendments that form part of the parliamentary majority, very significant steps have been taken forward in terms of fighting corruption, combating terrorism, reforming the justice sector, integrated border management, transport policy, and these are the moves forward and no one can respect that it is different. Action documents have been adopted for the public administration sectors that the European Commission has also warned us about in the 2015-2016 Report, then action documents from internal affairs and justice. Five priority projects in the field of transport and infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina have been included by the European Commission in the Western Balkans Transport Network, next to us, we know where the problem is. Bosnia and Herzegovina is listed on the list of countries qualified and certified for exporting milk and milk products to the European Union, a high meat export quota has been preserved for Turkey, along with the congratulations on the engagement of individual members of the BiH presidency, congratulations to Prime Minister Zvizdić and the respected prime minister, Mr Šarović, the minister who really invests in the area of foreign trade. The Earth Museum in Sarajevo opened. A great deal of effort has been made by Minister Osmanović to place profits on UNESCO's World Heritage List, and I know that it makes significant efforts to include some Bosnian Herzegovic products, i.e. objects from the immaterial cultural heritage on UNESCO's list, and I hope with recent results, because as far as I know the activities are under way. The World Bank Report, which no one mentions here today, has found progress in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the conditions of business 28th place forward, and that's a shift. I congratulate the Council of Ministers on that, too. The increase in gross domestic product, the increase in industrial production, the coverage of exports are vital parameters that are on the rise, and no one can respect that. The increase in income from indirect taxes by 200 million more than planned, the increase of foreign exchange reserves by 675 million KM, the increase of citizens' deposits in banks holding 10.5 billion KM, which is the largest amount so far, gives me hope and encouragement that Bosnia and Herzegovina with such a council of ministers is moving forward. I come from a Pony-Dobo canton. The women's-dobe canton is the largest exporting producer from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to say that the Women's Canton 73% of total production exports to European Union countries, which means that products are quality, certified and recognised on the international market. I also want to say that in two years, from 2014 to 2016. - 19,000 people employed in the Women's-Dobby Canton, with verified data that it was a very small number of people who left the Women's-Dobby Canton and went to other countries. I also want to say that, a few more things that allow me as much time as possible, in terms of regional co-operation, significant shifts have been made, and I congratulate them on that, good co-operation with the government of Croatia and the government of Serbia. The regional co-operation encourages economic and democratic development, creates peace in the region, and that is what is very necessary for the future and peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The adopted Strategy in the field of immigration and asylum, the adopted Strategy for 55 integration and border management, all the efforts that respected Minister Mektić makes, at which point I, therefore, congratulate him and all ministers from the Council of Ministers, then improving co-operation in terms of a common foreign and security policy in terms of defence, are also a step forward. If the GDP in 2010 was 0.87% and 2016. 2.86% who can then say that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not moving forward. It may be going too slowly that an ordinary citizen may feel a shift forward but it cannot be said that there is no good will and good intention of the Council of Ministers to make a better life for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would still like to point out that I hope the Council of Ministers will do everything on branding Bosnian Herzegovina products. By branding Bosnia and Herzegovina's products, they will become competitive on the European market and market for third countries. By certification of these products and by giving the stamp to Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think we will help our economy, our citizens and thus create a place and a more favourable position to enter the family, the European family of European countries, or the countries of the European Union. About that much, and just to say that, of course, I congratulate on the amendments to the BiH Criminal Law that allowed the download of the "grey list" of Manival. This is something very well done, and taking into account the fact that reaching agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Europol in terms of secrecy, data change security and the fight against crime and terrorism must give greater assurance of security to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am among those MPs who think that sometimes it is better not to pass the law than to pass a bad law, and we remember only two bad laws at a time when I was in opposition to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – the Law on conflict of interest and the Law on Public Procurement. We are aware of the fact that the Law of Conflict of Interest has opened up a space for corruption, and the Law on Public Procurement has shown a series of shortcomings. Here, now you're making adjustments. But all of this is about the fact that it's moving, so it does. If 7 billion KM has been exported to the European Union, CEFTA countries are more than a billion and if export growth is 16% only in the first quarter of 2017 it gives me the right to believe that I should support this report and that representatives of the Council of Ministers have done a significant job, and I believe that they will do all they can in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19256	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19257	Thank you very much. Don't be nervous, this one. Here, therefore, the last letter from Brussels, Han - I am disappointed, the absence of your signature is a disheartening indicator of Bosnia and Herzegovina's commitment to the European perspective. That's the last letter. Why? Because of this summit in Trieste and the unsigned, which I asked for to be the point of the agenda. This is not the Government of Republika Srpska, and the phone session in the middle of the night, and I don't know who voted, who didn't vote, and therefore these are the things this Parliament needs and needs to know. And I wasn't talking about the esteemed, how, this one you're defending, if you have needs, I don't need to, I'm talking about a phenomenal form when it comes to higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Neither am I nor are you, uh, Dr. Kapetanović, the one who needs to tell if anyone meets the requirements, it's prescribed by law. And teachers from the narrow area sign a report on 56 choices in higher calling, calling or doctor or, etc., and an extraordinary professor, etc., and all of them sign and then with their hands, the ones, the people who decide, so by voting say this, it's not. It's a phenomenal form that's not good for higher education in our country, we have framework law. The emerging form must not be part of what makes the education system in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what I'm talking about. And who needs to defend how that kind of thing is in this country, so it's nowhere near Europe, so it's not even in the South African Republic. So if we're going to start from Africa to Europe, here, let's take it as... and the facts. I'm not talking about myself, I'm not talking about myself, I'm not talking about myself. In Tuzlan Canton, a man makes a choice for you, uh, so the Canton Assembly has chosen a rector. Is that the way Which, is that autonomy? [[Employee is warned on time]] or what we have or don't have. [[Employee is warned on time]] So that's what I'm talking about. Is that how it's supposed to be written in the report I don't know, but here's the facts, the truth about this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19258	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Isaković, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19259	I thank the chairman. The correction of the wrong allegation refers in fact to Mrs. Kapetanović's exposure. What I heard about today, is whether and from the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Miss Kapetanović, I feel like I don't live in this country and live somewhere else and like this, I don't think it's recorded in Europe. GDP growth, export growth, import-covered exports, GDP growth, savings is 11 billion, so you tell me what the problem is, there's no problem in this country. 150 thousand people who have left this country, in 2017 we will have another 150 thousand to come to Bosnia and Herzegovina and live here, because it is good to live here after this report. I think that's the situation. As for data from the Zenic-Doboj canton, one is true – 39,000 jobs in the Zenic-Doboj canton are gone, 39, companies of the world's voice such as vatrostalan, and today when it comes to Kuwait you see the inscription Firestalna, there is no and there is no, there is no known what is with them. Someone's ruined those companies. You know who was in power and who ruined them. So what dissatisfied businessmen are... on exports to the Zenica-doboski, yes, exactly, the base industry is exported, 70%... [[You don't understand.]] What's wrong with businessmen? [[You don't understand.]] Prime Minister, they are dissatisfied with the distribution of public revenues in the Women's-Dobby Canton. If they've earned income there, if they've exported, they want to have income. We have initiated amendments and additions to the Law on the distribution of public incomes, never seen the light of day. So, unevenly, here they were talking about the uneven development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is a classic example. If Sarajevo is the center of this country and if it is the window of this country, go 60km to Varesh and see what it looks like in the XVIII century a city. Therefore, And that's the reality... we all need to go and see. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19260	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ahmetović, you went out without a clue, I'll say, I don't need to defend anyone but my child and I'm no one's spokesman here, but you're manipulating lies. And as part of that manipulation of yours, when you mentioned the adoption of strategies, which you honor Prime Minister Zvizdić for not bringing up the Strategy of Agriculture and Energy when we know it's not a problem in him, but in the government, the current government of the smaller bh entity. It's not true, Mr. Isaković, what you said. First of all, I'm not a lady, I'm a lady, and you couldn't decide between the lady and the lady, you're doing what someone tried to do to Miss Pandurević, or to the lady, no more missus, don't insult me. Secondly, go to the current Prime Minister, Mr Galijašević, who will present to you the official parameters related to the Zenic-Doboj canton. Some companies may have shut down, but the leading firms in Bosnia and Herzegovina are in the Zenic-Doboj canton of Mann Hummel and beyond. The best businessmen are from the Zenica-Doboj canton and, of course, Tešnja, of course, in Tešnja. And I didn't bring out the false information because all the data I've provided here is consistent with information from the Employment Service.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19262	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19263	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try not to spend all 10 minutes because it seems to me that there's a danger now and a repeat of what's been said. First of all, I'll say a few words about the methodology. In fact, this methodology surprised all of us in Parliament, which is why we have, after all, had a problem with the commissions, because we are simply not used to considering the report in this way. What exactly did this methodology provide on one side? On the one hand, she made sure that the Council of Ministers in its Report also spoke of what was not his jurisdiction and that he took responsibility for something he could not do because it was not his jurisdiction. So this report, according to this methodology, is more like a government report that has no authority in the government. That's why it's a problem, and that's why we don't have to be surprised that now the colleagues in the discussions are going wide, because the report is so made that literally, uh, you can talk here about everything and everything, and employment even though it has the least to do with the Council of Ministers, and the fight against crime, even though the Council of Ministers can't provide, we know for who and why. ... we can now talk about education, health care, etc., etc., and almost none of it is in jurisdiction, or very little, in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have many objections to the work of the Council of Ministers as well as most of us sitting here. I think, or I'm unhappy with the speed of the path we're going towards the European Union, I think we should go faster, but now it's a big question whether the Council of Ministers is responsible because we're not going faster or others, without which the Council of Ministers cannot provide that dynamic, influenced that we go as we go, or slow. I'm unhappy with the results in the fight against corruption and crime, I think it's one of the responsibilities... of the BiH courts and prosecutors, but we also know that the Council of Ministers can't do that much. Unfortunately, we've been looking at the D.A.'s, the Court's, the High Court's and Prosecutor's Council's, and we have on stage that, in 58, no matter what you say about the prosecution's work, it is believed that you're affecting, that you're pressuring the D.A.'s office. You can't criticise the prosecution anymore because you're pressuring, you can't criticise the court because you're pressuring. Whatever you're criticizing, you're pressuring and they're an independent institution that doesn't achieve any results. The third area in which this Council of Ministers, in my opinion, was to prove itself, and I think that it has proved to a significant extent, is international policy and international relations. I think we've made progress here compared to previous times. And if it wasn't for these methodologies then we would be dealing here today with just a few areas between which I think these are the three most important areas that I mentioned here, and we wouldn't be dealing with a number of other issues. But, see, such a methodology, the victim of this new methodology is, therefore, the Council of Ministers itself, but so are we here in Parliament. I am not, of course, satisfied with the policies of those who are with us in the Council of Ministers, but let me know when the government of the same policies is built here from Dejton. It's never ever, so it's not now, and it probably won't be for a long time, because parties go into power with different policies and different goals. And so it's in a country that's formed and organized in this way. These days, unfortunately, this report has persistently been brought into contact with the Council of Ministers' trust, so it is said – unless the report is accepted, it will vote on the Council of Ministers' trust. Of course, if the report is not accepted, the Council of Ministers will not receive trust, or his mistrust will be voted upon. Next, if we have a new Council of Ministers, do we have a new majority? Is the new majority who, after last election, has not reached the Council of Ministers for a year and a half, and we have even worse. Is that the new majority we expect after we change this Council of Ministers? Is the new majority even possible at this point here, and if it isn't whether the resolution of the Council of Ministers leads Bosnia and Herzegovina into an even bigger crisis? Of course, the answer is yes. We will have a power that has no confidence, which has been voted "untrusted", which works in full capacity under the Constitution, but which is no longer responsible for nothing, because it has been voted "untrusted". In fact, they would have come out to meet this Council of Ministers if they could work as hard as they could without being responsible for anything because we didn't vote for their mistrust and let them work. From all these dilemmas, from all these thinkings, me and most of my colleagues here have to create an opinion or an attitude. I don't want to be part of a process that will further complicate a situation that is badly complicated. I do not want to make my contribution at least one vote to this process, I simply think that this Council of Ministers should continue to work with all our dissatisfactions, with all these problems, etc., because the other would not reach the end of these elections and because we would simply allow them to work much more easily than they do today. I'm an MP here in front of the PDP-NDP Coalition. The first part of the coalition has the foreign minister and the second part of the deputy minister. I must be honest that I am pleased with the work of those who are ahead of this coalition, I am also pleased with the work of other Serbian ministers. I really, I don't know, would be hypocritical of me to be satisfied with the work of ministers and deputy ministers, and to vote against the report and against the Council of Ministers. So I can explain my position at all that I am satisfied with the minister's work, but I am not satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers. It's just an impossible situation for me. And having exactly what I've just said, and what I've been saying so far, and I haven't talked much about the results because, I repeat, the policies are very different, with the different policies we've come into, the results are, not only the result of this Council of Ministers, but everyone else in this country who's worked less or more, better or worse, so I haven't talked about it much, but, I'm saying, taking all of this into account, then simply another variant to me than to support this report seems incorrect, unreal, 59 unnecesssarily, and I don't really see myself in that new, not most of them, but in a new problem that would be put out of the vote of this council of ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19264	Thank you. You're the first of all the debaters who haven't spent 10 minutes, but it's almost there, but you haven't been warned, you haven't exceeded, and thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19265	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. And this report as well as all the other reports or our methods of work can be considered in several ways, even more than I can say. For example, we can consider how to see and express what has been done in an affirmative, positive way, of course this and other reports, and we can also consider our work in another way by looking at what has not been done and by bringing these things up, especially in the light and initial address of the Council of Ministers' Chairman when confirming, or by appointing the Council of Ministers. We can watch if the glass is half full, half full, or half empty. The method as a form, the way of reporting is often disputed, there have been proposals and discussions here, of course, this report, as we see at the outset, was based on the Decision on annual work planning and how to monitor and report in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 94/14, so from 2014, and the Guide on how to prepare the annual work programme and reporting in the institutions "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 45/15, so from 2015. And we can say good is, it's not good, it needs this or that method, but it seems to me that, there have been some proposals, it's best if we have the strength to assign the Council of Ministers or some working bodies or Members to determine the form, method, content of this Parliament's reporting, not only of the Council of Ministers, but of all other institutions that submit or report on their work or submit information about their work when we say so when we definitely do not make a decision. And then, then we would avoid all these stories, because no matter how a report is done, both this, and the past, and the past, etc., and even the years to come, there will always be those who are satisfied or dissatisfied with the method and there will be those who will be easier or harder to find answers in those reports. What is very important to me is, as a key point in this report, that trends, processes, percentages, figures, facts in one upline, so all the figures contained in the report, all the figures that the Honored Chairman Zvizdić presented in this presentation, say that we have a positive trend. Whether we're satisfied or not right now, is that enough growth in the economy, is that a sufficient number of this or whether the numbers are like that or not, that's another thing, but it's crucial that it's one upline compared to '15, '14, '13. And so, the one, the second year. And of course, without bad intentions, and those parallel data that were used for our neighbours in the income, duty, etc., so we have also positive indicators. I could, therefore, repeat these figures since some have disputed in terms of and growth in the economy and especially in this processing industry, and the figures, and the collected revenue, and the modest amount of VAT return increases, one of the figures that I will never agree with and which for me, therefore, is very bad for all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the total import into Bosnia and Herzegovina and in total, which is even the worst, the total deficit. There is a positive thing, an increase in exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina and an increase in the coverage of imports from Bosnia and Herzegovina by 58%. These are positive shifts, but they can't agree that 16 billion money goes from Bosnia and Herzegovina, because over 16 billion are imported there, and we have about 6.7 billion deficits somewhere. All levels of government, from local, entity, Brcko District, Bosnia and 60 Herzegovina, are asking for several tens of millions of euros in loans from this, that of the International Bank, etc., not to mention them, and if we were to agree in Bosnia and Herzegovina and only support the "Bought Domestic" action, several billion of our money would remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We actually have a question of whether we should borrow any loans at all if we were to agree and buy domestic goods. If we could just fix this export and import ratio in a way that would reduce the deficit, buy domestic goods all over Bosnia and Herzegovina, we would, in turn, make ourselves the best way to develop Bosnia and Herzegovina with that money. Overall, could it have been better? Well, of course it could have been better, and we in Parliament could have done better and the vijeć of Ministers, but often, someone said from colleagues and from colleagues, they sometimes become hostages here in Parliament, sometimes entity governments, sometimes these or those, all in line with constitutional arrangements. Of course, and somewhere else I spoke, and I wish more laws than the Council of Ministers had come into parliamentary procedure and that some things, one, better and more efficiently and more quickly were solved. Someone mentioned and said there were no reports of other institutions at the state level, I suggest that once again, to look at this report, detailed with all 320 pages, so they will see there that in those tables, of course there, everything there writes which activity, who is in charge, did, did, did, etc., etc. I don't miss the model, maybe it's a little harder to manage, maybe it's easier for someone, I won't get into it at all, but if we're in agreement and if we know what we're going to do, let's vote on that methodology and how we report here in Parliament, and then it's going to be the obligations of the Council of Ministers and each of the ministries, is it, and all other agencies and directors at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's best to talk about facts, numbers, they're irrefutable, namely, it's hard to knock them down and knock them down, and sometimes all of a sudden we, like, run more into that political sphere. Now I can give two examples, I don't have to mention the municipalities, we can find one municipality or any other level of government, it can apply to the state, and to the entities, and to the Brcko District, and to the cantons, if there's something wrong in some canton, and there's, say, whether it's the head of the one party or the prime minister from that party and most ministers, and there's a majority of them, and when there's no good situation, then we're able to race and we say it's not good for that party, it's not good for the prime minister, etc., etc. When something is good, we can take another municipality that is very successful, here comes counterpart Mehmedović from one such municipality, and if there's a chief from one municipality, if the majority from one party in that municipality or has some parliamentary majority and... the president of the party and we're not quite ready to confirm and say everything – yes, they are responsible for that and that. Now we know, I'm saying this from the corner of our constitutional arrangement, which we all know is what it is, everything that's wrong with me would now be ready to be at this session loaded on the back of the Council of Ministers, and whether they're responsible for that, whether they're competent or not, that's actually the real question. Of course, for example. on the data on increasing the number of employees, of course there are merits and other levels of government, even I would say every single individual who employed himself or every privateer either through crafts or through a legal person employs 3, 5, 10 people, of course, is enormously credited and directly and indirectly contributed to that line of increase in the number of employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course it is a question of how much it is in the production, or service, or in the commercial activity, or in the administration or in the budget. They're all, like, open questions. But here, in the end, I just want to say that by me is a key trend, and that's the upcoming line of indicators in 2016. Whether I'm satisfied with it, like all of you, I'm as sure as the Council of Ministers and as certain ministers, well, we're not, we'd all like it to be faster, more and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19266	Thank you very much. 61 The speaker called for the word, counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19267	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to say a few sentences about this, obviously at any time, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina especially at this point, an important topic, so the BiH Council of Ministers' work reports last year. All of us, therefore, know that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to those segments concerned by government work, so if you want the parliaments and the general government when it comes to the standard of living of citizens is not at a good level, and if on this basis we would assess, on this basis alone, the work of the current governments, then there is no report of any government in any composition and in any co-operation that could receive the support of any parliament. But we operate in time and space, we act in circumstances and, in certain circumstances, and for the correct assessment of the activities of one government, including the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is under the government's laws, things should be fully objective and then start from the inherited situation at the time when the Council of Ministers assumes obligations, from the results to the present day, including the last year and, of course, the ambience in which all this happens, and therefore bring an assessment of whether or not the Council of Ministers has satisfied the report for the past year. This Council of Ministers succeeded in the 2010-2014 mandate. The years characterised by the roadblocks of Bosnia and Herzegovina in all aspects, the reform stalemate, and not only the reform stalemate, but also the backdrop in certain areas and inherited, bad economic parameters were inherited. Two and a half years after the constitution of the Council of Ministers, including of course last year, we have a situation presented by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The European path of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been unblocked, the Council of Ministers has done a significant part of the job, and I would say the lion's part of the job, in the deblock of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path. We should honestly say that this has been done by the Council of Ministers by the Reform Agenda, by the Action Plan, by resolving the issues of the SAA adjustment, by resolving the issue of the Coordination Mechanism, by submitting a credible application for membership in the European Union. We should rightly and honestly say that progress has been made when it comes to NATO's path to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, not only is the Council of Ministers responsible for that, but the lion's share of these merits applies to the Council of Ministers, there is both the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly, so I would say, the authorities in this meeting, but we are now discussing part of the responsibility of the Council of Ministers of BiH. When it comes to reform, we've seen that all economic indicators are in improvement, not enough, not enough for one, I'd say, normal standard of living for citizens, but it's better, much better than what's inherited. This Council of Ministers was established several months after the election, past Council of Ministers was established, I think, 17 or 18 months after the election. Therefore, these are the facts we should talk about and if we observe, therefore, the inherited situation and observe the situation that it is today, then whoever wants to be an objective analyst can't help but conclude that this Council of Ministers has produced results and deserves the report for the past year to be assessed here in the House of Representatives positively and to be supported by us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we were in the 2014 elections, we took responsibility and responsibility for part of the work done by the Council of Ministers we transferred to the Council of Ministers. We are all responsible for the current situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina together, and I think that discussions of this type should serve us to objectively analyse the situation, that 62 objectively say what is wrong, to explicitly say what is what the Council of Ministers could have done and did not do. I didn't hear that kind of argument today what it was that the Council of Ministers could have done, and it didn't. Here, we're talking about excises, we're talking about road construction, we all know it's the responsibility of entities and other lower levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we got from this Council of Ministers a bill here in Parliament that we haven't adopted for these or those reasons, which should have been strongly encouraged or started road construction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The problem, and it is fair to say, for example, that, specifically now, this Council of Ministers has solved the Manival issue, as Mrs Kaptanović spoke of. Niko one remembers one big problem we had here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, exporting animal products. It's settled by the Council of Ministers, no one mentions it anymore. The neighbourly relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think, are much better today than they were in 2014, the European relations are much better. So, there are no segments, I can't pick up now, all of the people here are present from the Council of Ministers, Minister Mektić has called a meeting, so all ten of them are now members of the Council of Ministers here, there's no segment in which you won't find progress. We've been talking, here, about immovable military property, here's what we're talking about structural dialogue, we're talking about museums, civil affairs, human rights, all that, finance. There is, therefore, progress. Another problem is that this Council of Ministers acted and acts in an unfavourable political environment, it acts in an ambience when there are constant blockades coming from entity governments, especially from Republika Srpska's government, here there is a constant conflict between representatives from Republika Srpska who are here in Parliament in the Council of Ministers and the Government of Republika Srpska and there is a game that makes it difficult, a negative match, the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, there is a terrible politicisation here, there are processes within political parties. Today we have heard the discussions of those who supported this Council of Ministers, today they have completely the opposite opinions and I don't think it's about the work of the Council of Ministers. We have political parties that form a coalition, which are negative positions when it comes to the work of the Council of Ministers, we will see how they will relate when it comes to the report, and that is the thing that does not concern this Council of Ministers. I think that this parliamentary majority and that this Council of Ministers will continue to function until the 2018 elections, someone has talked about it. And I urge you not to waste time on barren political debates and politicization. Let's give strong support to these people here, to put them in charge this year and a few days, a year and a half to make the best use so that we can realize then that the standard of living is even better for the citizens of this country or that it's on a higher level than it is today, and today it's not on a satisfactory level. I think it should be a message. As far as I'm concerned, so thank you for being here today, this is a private trip, and I've been here a long time in Parliament, uh, and I've rarely seen all ten members of the Council of Ministers sit down and follow the session, so today you're here, thank you for that. You have, therefore, as far as I'm concerned, my support and I expect the House of Representatives to understand this matter in this way, no one's interest in politicisation, much more or much more political points will be taken if we have a constructive relationship and help this Council of Ministers make even more of a move in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but rather by hanging out each other's Ujagmit some cheap political point, and none of it benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19268	Thank you. Debate, MP Amir Fazlić. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19269	Well, here, I will take the opportunity to welcome the chairman and chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers and fellow Members of Parliament and guests. It is difficult to say something new now after all these discussions about the 2016 Council of Ministers' work, but the fact is that we have heard from both the chairman and the MP himself and a series of good things, but also a series of things addressed as a man to the Council of Ministers in terms of what they could do and what they did not do. What I can say is that this new methodology has somewhat affected some attitudes with some colleagues, but the fact is that one MP said let us define the methodology and adopt it and say what we want. However, what has in some way improved that artistic impression of this Council of Ministers' work report is itself a presentation of the Council of Ministers' chairmanship and a series of numerical data, indicators, parallel indicators that have, in some ways, introduced us into the situation where we were and where we are now. I must remind you that this report for 2016 when the coalition worked very well, when we didn't have these political markets that we have possibly had in 2017, and which we all hope will be overcome in view of both the times coming and the elections and all those obligations we have on the European path. I will not repeat some of the things that my colleagues have brought out here, which the chairman of the Council of Ministers has said and which are numerically visible and which are exact, such as export growth, then the activities related to European integration, means everything that has been done on that path and good assessments of this European road, and that this is the most successful year, GDP growth, an increase in the number of employees and a number of other indicators, but I want to say that today we have heard a series of discussions that I do not think are negative, very good, that come out of the context and competence of the Council of Ministers' work itself. But my Bog, we're used to this kind of discussion and touching these topics, and it's inevitable, inevitably, to mention high education, it's inevitable to mention and to do business in some cantons, and some good examples, and some bad examples, and the fact is that the Council of Ministers, although there's no constitutional jurisdiction, some coordination can be stronger. We of the Party of Democratic Action will normally support this report and expect that the parties of the parliamentary majority and we will support the report, so we will not look back here as a whole, we will not say this minister was good, this one is not, although in the political jargon there are more difficult to rock, so he says he is the minister from this party that we will support, this one is not and so on. So, the Party of Democratic Action will support this report with a desire to make the report better in 2017, we will support this report. The report can always be better and there are segments that could have been better, is it, but given the political opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given both ourselves and what we are asking, and what we are asking, and how we treat ourselves, and everything else, I think the Council of Ministers has earned one passing grade and that with stronger zeal and more activity brings some jobs to the success of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but above all jobs related to European integration. So the SDA Parliament Club gives full support to the work of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19270	Thank you. Representative Željko Komšić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19271	I thank the chairman. Well, here, I'll really try to be as objective, although I don't guarantee it'll look like that, and maybe I'm even in some things wrong, and that's why I'll always put 64 questionnaires there. I will obraćati you most, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, because I hold you somehow responsible for the work of the entire body. To be honest, I am in line with people who were happy when your party proposed you to be vijeć Minister's Chairman, because I remember you as excellent, if not perhaps the best Prime Minister of Canton Sarajevo while you were leading that government, and I had the opportunity to work with you as the head of the municipality. Of course there were political differences back then, but when there were large things that concerned a large number of people and some important situations we always managed to find some compromise, we did not gamble on behalf of political goals and political bickering with some big things. And I really belong to the order of the people who, who were glad it was you, that you were the god of your party. Of course, I understand how things work, and I don't want to invoice what you're not objectively guilty of, or your ministers, just like I want to look back at this discussion that we're having in this house today and say what we all know, if anything else is public. It will not, nor will it be decided in this House whether this Council will gain trust or not, decisions are made elsewhere, all of you know it. Just as we all know that, more or less, what we can object to, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and its ministers, in fact, the right invoice should be put on the other side. I resent you, I resent you, and you as the chairman and some of your ministers who I'm sure wanted this all to work out and that at least the great majority of you are trying to make things work out for the good, the great majority, not all of you, there are some ministers that I would ask if I were you not to go on television, because as they say it's a terrible thing, it's terrible. There are honest and honest people among you, and I especially appreciate Minister Mektić and his courage, and I hope that I am not wrong, that he is an honorable man. The other thing is that I think he has nothing, and he should have nothing to do with the processing of certain cases, the work of prosecutors, courts, I don't think it's his job, but I appreciate his courage and honesty, I really appreciate it. So, from you, Mr. Zvizdić, and from some of the people in that Council of Ministers, because it is still people with experience, let me be forgiven for the expression, I expected more insolence, to forgive, and to say to your political bosses – no, because I know that you have not made the decisions, as neither the decision to trust you nor the mistrust will be made here now, but has been made earlier on at some other level, and then we wonder how empty this debate is. But while I'm at it, I'm not going to burden you with what you don't have, which some of you do, I'm not going to call on your exposés, it sounded nice, any unreal things we knew at first, optimism, at least at first, is expected and desirable, it's another thing when you encounter and encounter the reality of political relations in the Constitution of a regulated country like Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I resent that you have succumbed to some pressures, as I do to your ministers who have succumbed to some pressures, above all political chiefs and top parties. You shouldn't have done it yourself. I know it goes a lot differently in political parties and that in some way... some kind of political sanctions that you've done differently, that's how we walk, but I thought you'd have..., have the courage to resist it. For example, now I'm going to actually count what your report refers to, it's 2016, I'm not going to talk about '15, '14, etc., and expose, it doesn't matter now, the Coordination Mechanism, Mr. Zvizdić, you've never answered us – what, when there was the adoption of this Mechanism? You remember here the confusion – it exists, it doesn't exist. So Parliament also finds out that it exists, so now there is a question – if there is already something that does not work, why does this Coordination Mechanism not work? I think the wrong, completely wrong political concept you entered thanks to the agreement of your political boss and head of the SNSD, in my opinion you shouldn't have done that, you had to say - no, not that concept, but there's what it is, we have the Mechanism and we don't have it. I know you were in a hurry, the European Union was pushing, what does it matter to Evropljanin how we deal, they say give us a deal, so whatever it is, and we live here. 65 The second thing, a little bit, will not be chronologically, the Transport Community – why didn’t you sign this agreement, by law you were right? You know that under the Law on the conclusion of international contracts, agreements, etc., etc., you don't need the consent of entities, don't lie to yourself, people, it's an institute that we introduced into Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life, there is an opinion. Opinion, ladies and gentlemen, since the world and century, has had enough lawyers here, opinion is an institute that is not binding. You weren't obliged to wait for consent, because that's not what the law says. If you want us to introduce this practice and suggest amendments to the law so that there may be consent, if you succeed in obtaining the majority, but the law does not stand for consent, but for opinion. Opinions don't have to be respected. And if you want us to move on, the opinion doesn't come within the legal time limit, you know what lawyers call it, silence from the administration, and how that situation is treated. Excise on fuel, you got stuck and you didn't know where you were going, you didn't even know where you were going. You pushed something hard, and it turned out funny. I don't want to mention excises, for example, tobacco products, so let's get into the analysis based on data from the IRS how much money we've actually lost, how much the excise policy that we're running over here has shed income on the black market. You know, according to the data, when you compare them to me in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we're a nation that stops smoking, and we all know that's not the case, only people have moved to the black market because of excise policy. As I'm against being invoiced that it's your fault that there's no processing of corruption cases, but you have nothing to do with it, so please don't even boast about what you have nothing to do with, what you don't affect. What do you have to do with the number of employees? What are the laws and measures that you influence when we know it's dominant in the hands of entity governments? Besides, I won't, my colleague Emrić had a great discussion at the beginning, and it's precisely that, apparently, he dedicated himself to the report, it's precisely that..., here's the question – where did you get this information from, what sources? Because some of my colleague Emrić's data doesn't agree with you, he referred to the Statistics Office. What do you have with the number of employees, what are you boasting about? Don't do it, there's no need, I'll protect you from having a invoice on what's not going into your business, but don't even brag about it. The state of the Intelligence Agency, there you are responsible, in fact as our system is set up, you and your two deputies are here, next to this commission, the bosses of the whole... Don't come out before us to explain what you're going to do... It's dangerous to play with that institution, it's dangerous to break it up too, it's mechanisms, the elements of coercion in one country. The state can't function without the intelligence agency, the police structures, in this case the SIPA at the state level, and the military bond. Then we get to the army, the behavior of your ministers, I haven't noticed to the Prime Minister that you've been advertised during the crisis over the referendum and the use of the Armed Forces, it's embarrassing to me. Why? It's clear to me how it happened, and I understand that political relations are clear to me, but when we get to such sensitive things, it's only worth what the law says, and the law is on the state level. Prime Minister, you have not responded to the violation of the Framework Law on Higher Education... You don't have to worry about the professor's choice, but you're obliged to react when the Higher Education Act is being violated, as it was in Tuzla Canton, because that Law has been broken. You kept your mouth shut. You shouldn't have kept your mouth shut, I'm done. [[Employee is warned on time]] Let's do more. It is my opinion that you do not control the Agrokora situation and that it will have far more devastating effects in Bosnia and Herzegovina on people who work in that system, but here we will see what happens, I hope that I am wrong. 66 For all these reasons, I say, not entering what is not your jurisdiction and for what some are accusing you of, sticking to what was going on in Unfortunately, I have to say, I will vote against this report and I feel a little bitter about it, because Prime Minister Zvizdić, I am the one of those people who believed in you, I know you far stronger and far... [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19272	Thank you, Mr. Komšić. We have to give a word to the next speaker. Representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19273	I thank the chairman. We heard on several occasions here the question, as – why does no one enter what the Council of Ministers, or the chairman, could do without doing so? I will certainly touch that in my discussion, but first of all I want to emphasize to those who have potentiated it, there is no need for us to give MPs an opinion as to what they could do when it's enough to look at what Mr. Zvizdić himself said he would do and what he didn't do. We can look at what he said he was going to do in his exposé, and there he said there would be a agricultural strategy and some much more ambitious things about agriculture, none of it absolutely does. He said in the exposé a lot more, not even 10% failed, and we can't say that we are somewhere in the beginning or middle of the mandate, 2018 is for, or the 2018 elections are for a little more than a year. And here, if we're going to touch the specific 2016 Report, we can look at what Mr. Zvizdić himself said he would do and he didn't. And not to get too far into it, he said in the 2016 Work Plan that the Council of Ministers would propose 65 laws, did not propose a third of it, according to his 2016 report he proposed 19 laws. And that is why I, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, said for the first time probably in the history of this House that I would not replicate the Council of Ministers' Work Plan, to say that the Constitutional Commission would consider 65 laws when it was obvious in March when we adopted this Work Plan that it would not adopt a third of them, and this year, it would seem even worse when it comes to this Work Plan, or the implementation of the Council of Ministers' Work Plan. We've heard a lot of numbers here today, but without getting into all that, the worst thing is, our neighbors didn't get to us, and then here's what the numbers say. It has been exactly 18 months since Bosnia and Herzegovina's application. Now let's look at it in parallel in the region – Serbia has been proposed by, i.e. it has received a proposal for candidate status by the European Commission 21 months from the application, since the submission of the application, we obviously will not get there, Croatia and Macedonia 14 months after the application, so this has already passed us, Montenegro 23 months, very difficult to reach and only Albania has spent 4.5 years in their case, but this is because they have submitted the application objectively. And what is mainly the reason in these cases except in the case of Albania, where I just said what was the reason? Questionnaire. It's been almost eight months, and August 9th will be eight months, since Bosnia and Herzegovina received the questionnaire and it's not over yet. Albania submitted answers to the questionnaire after 4 months, Montenegro 4.5 months, Croatia 4 months and several days, Serbia 2 months and Macedonia the same 4 months and ten days. So, we've already broken through twice that, so eight months, and it's very certain that it's going to be another four months, and maybe even eight months, since we, as far as I'm aware, have stopped at translation, and the problem of not being familiar enough as an MP, so in these benches, I'm not saying how familiar I am with the media, but as far as I'm aware of, uh, the last thing we've been discussing here when this, when it comes to the questionnaire was just translation. In addition, 67 of the Council of Ministers has never been honored to provide us with any official information on this matter. And what's interesting about the report you listed, so I can say immodestly, that Johanes Han submitted questions for the questionnaire personally, quote, the chairman of the Council of Ministers to Dr. Denis Zvizdić. I tried to find information for other countries who received questions, but no one publicly boasted about it, believe me, who received questions from whom, but all these countries, here's what I just said, in two to four months they answered questions and that's what matters. The visa-free regime, also a concrete remark, only three countries abolished our visas during the presidency's term of office, Zvizdić and Minister Crnadko, only three countries, and among the three countries of Belarus, which is very, very respectfully, not much commendable, this one, and, by the way, was only signed at the beginning of the term of office of Minister Crnadko, and it was all completed before that by Indonesia, but it had nothing to do with the Council of Ministers because the same day the decree lifted visas for citizens over 50 countries. So you can't even boast about it. Bosnia and Herzegovina is in this period, 2014. Bosnia and Herzegovina was in 42nd place, so-called The visa index, today 2017, so for your term of office we fell to 53rd place and we keep falling, 2016 we were at 52nd, this year we were at 53rd place, so we have a continuous decline, and there we landed from 42nd place from 2014. Laws, only 19 in the reporting period, this year only 5, not counting on excise duties. You are 20, the chairman of nine ministers and 10 deputies, so last year you have an average of less than one law per minister and deputy. The SBB club last year has a better average than you. In this year, as I said, you have five new laws, not counting those recycled on excises, the SBB and SDP Club have eight. Here's what you've done. You've done exactly what they could, and they haven't done. Here's what we could and we did, they could, and they didn't. The foreign ministry, where is the Foreign Affairs Act, where is the regulation on the evaluation of ambassadors and other international representatives? To remind you, in May 2013, the Bureau adopted a Decision requiring the adoption of the Rules on the Assessment of Ambassadors. In May 2015, I asked the Minister Crnadko Foreign Affairs Lagumdžija and then a member of the presidency, Mr Komšić, and I further quote, we appreciate that the election of the new presidency and the appointment of the new foreign minister created the conditions for the regulation to be adopted in a short period. That short period is already two years and three months. And now the question is objectively raised, considering that your answer, if what you said was the basic reason of the conflict between Lagumdzija-Lagumdžija-Komšić, that the regulation was not adopted in two years, then do you, Mr. Crnadak, have any even greater conflict than the two of them had with someone in the presidency? I'm just quoting your answer. Human rights, I've been trying to get an answer from the Council of Ministers since May about what they think of the discriminatory statements made by the head of the Novi City Municipality about who can and who can't be Bošnjak. And the chief goes so far away, he says, "I quote, he's been doing research on it." And when I told officials in the Council of Europe about these pseudo-science claims, they were constant, because it reminded them of the darkest days of the European continent, a study of who could be some nations, who couldn't. And you know what made them more consistent? That the Human Rights Minister has provided me with an answer saying -- that, I quote, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is not responsible for taking views on the statements of elected and appointed officials, the end of the quote. And your sister's ministries in the region at least once a week condemn some hate speech and put it on their website. And then you're surprised when someone verbally attacks the Bošnjak in Podrinj, you issue a party statement when Bošnjak are attacked by the entity president, instead of acting institutionally, I speak for the SDA, and that your minister, and you too, Mr. Zvizdić your Human Rights Minister, is acting. But excuse me, she has already said she is not 68 competent to, again, quote, take views on the statements of elected officials. And then when I try to ask Mr. Zvizdić about it, using his business opportunity, Mr. Zvizdić is not worthy at all to stand up and come up for a pay phone to answer what he thinks about the statements of New City, Novi City Municipality about who can and who can't be Bošnjak. And that brings me back to the essence of this report, Article 9. Decisions on annual work planning and how to monitor and report in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which this report is based, are prescribed to prepare the Office of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, a quote – the Office of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. So this was prepared by President Zvizdić's office. And by voting on it, we'll be clear about that fact. So I remind you of the situation with the Joint Commission on Human Rights where I asked why 280,000 marks were spent in 2016 for brochures on the A Minister's Diaspora The Borovac told me, I end up really, that it's wrong, that it's so planned but not spent. [[Employee is warned on time]] And if that's wrong, and it is, the question is, what else in this report is wrong? And then, well, I'll use the replica, and I'll finish, and I'll use the replica. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19274	The replica is used to respond to some quote from another speaker, not to continue the discussion. Representative Asim Sarajlić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the correction of the wrong allegation refers to the discussion of fellow Arnaut. So, the quote was – your minister of human rights. So it's not anyone's human rights minister, Mrs. Borovac is the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees of the Council of Ministers of BiH. So, I am pleased that Mr Arnaut is dealing with analysis and comparatively with the situation in the region and European through the neighbouring countries, but I am also saddened that the 2016 Council of Ministers' report on the work of the Council of Ministers has a very selective approach, so in the discussion on the Council of Ministers' work and on the work of the BiH Presidency, he deals with the New Town Head, deals with the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, deals with foreign affairs, which I believe and I know he has certain skills, qualifications, experience, deals with all others, not dealing with, for example, in 2016 very current issues from the domain of the Ministry of Defence, colleagues have already talked about, about certain situations, staff, not traffic policy or policy in the field of transport and communication, where we also have to discuss. So a very selective approach and a very personal approach to the Council of Ministers' chairmanship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19276	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19277	That's how the chairman is. To clarify, I said I'd use the replica as soon as I saw Mr. Sarajlić answering, I knew there would be false allegations, so here, I just... 69
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19278	Now this is real, come on well, so don't underestimate us. Come on, keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19279	Correction of the wrong quote to Mr. Sarajlić. So, when it comes to the BiH Minister of Human Rights exactly her relationship, it means refusing to give me an answer to the question... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Now I'm going to say, it just showed me that it's not - mine. If I can't get an answer from her to the question of what she thinks, what is the position of the competent ministry on such statements that are really embarrassing, I hope that by the end of this term I will get a position on those statements from someone in this Council of Ministers, because when I say about these statements in the Council of Europe, people are consterned that it's possible, and then only when they hear that the Minister of Human Rights says she's not competent to take a stand, people can't believe it. And that is why I said it, yours. So that absolutely stands. As for the Ministry of Defence on January 14th, we provided Mr. Zvizdić with a request for the replacement of Deputy Defence Minister Mr. Jusić for what he did, that is, the moves he made and those he did not take on 9 January. Mr. Zvizdić has never publicly shown himself about this issue, except to say he has accepted it and that he is awaiting the outcome of the investigation. It's the only thing I've heard from Mr. Zvizdić, and I'm not saying that he didn't do well to deliver, so the transfer proposal. You have opened the question of the Ministry of Defence, and, behold, I remind you that Mr. Zvizdić is today guarding Mr. Jusić who did or did not do certain things on January 9th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19281	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, representative of Asim Sarajlić, is correcting the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19282	So, fellow Arnaut, therefore, is not guarded by Mr. Zvizdić, not a single deputy minister, nor does he keep what we spoke of at the Ministry of Defence. I was talking about appearances at the Ministry of Defense, there were more and we talked here on different topics, not just about January 9th, it's just one of the topics, and, of course, I was talking about a selective approach. So it is clear here that it is speaking personally about the Council of Ministers' Chairman, that it is about the foreign minister and the minister of human rights, I have not heard a comment on the work of others in the Council of Ministers. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19283	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19284	I really don't know how to meet, uh, you from this club. Mr. Rančić says -- that nobody here says what they did, they didn't do, they couldn't do. Then I get up and say what they didn't do that they could do, and then he says, "Wait, why don't you talk about these people?" Well, if Mr. Džaferović would give me 20 minutes maybe I would talk, but, I mean, I've been limited and I've been guided by what Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Rančić said. But here, speaking of which, uh, I'm on committees, I remind you that the Constitutional Commission, which I am sitting on, is in charge of all ministries, on this Commission, and especially on the Human Rights Commission, has highlighted positive examples. I have highlighted the example of relations with MPs and delegates who show Minister Šarović and Minister Osmanović, so without any national, party, etc., I am very objectively telling you – these people always, their ministries, but those ministries, you are careful all ministries are equal, it is known that this comes from the head, they have established a culture in these two ministries to give answers within 30 days and to give quality answers, not official answers. And there are positive examples,... I can move on. But you can't, on the one hand, ask us to point out what they could have done, and they didn't, and then complain that we're not going through all 10 individually. There really isn't time, every MP here, you know, gets 10 minutes, and if he talked about all 10 of these, so the chairman and nine ministers, that would be a minute per minister. And believe me, some deserve a lot more than a minute for their unhappiness, and some deserve a lot more than 10 minutes for their work.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19285	Thank you. Representative Hazim Rančić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19286	Thank you very much. Correction of the false allegations of a respected colleague, Arnaut, said I called him to say what the Council of Ministers didn't do. That's absolutely not true, in my discussion I didn't mention anyone and I even try and avoid them and I don't want to mention my colleagues, I don't want to be personal as much as possible, so while I can. I was talking about possible ways of discussing this or any other report, I was talking about a positive and negative approach, I was talking about the possibility of discussing this report in a way to highlight the positive things that have been done, and I was saying that it was possible to talk about this and other reports in a way that was not done, and by comparing, I don't know, with the initial presentation of the chairman that applied to the mandate, and not just '16. A year, but, well, we have a agenda report in 2016, and I didn't invite my colleague Arnaut to speak. Namely, I have no intention, Bog forbid, of telling any of the MPs how they will discuss and what they will discuss, and I have no right to do so, and I act like one.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19287	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19288	Thank you. 71 Well, here, today we've heard a lot of discussions and let's say that on all sides she tried to assess the work of the Council of Ministers, that is, the report on the work of the Council of Ministers. The commissions have said theirs, and by following what the commissions have done, we can say who the commissions have criticised, and whose work they have indirectly praised. But here, I'll be the first and only one to say today that I'll be personal. Here's why. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the scene absolutely exodus, it's not emigration, it's not economic migration, you can call it whatever you want, but it's an exodus. But in that exodus, I'm going to say a few words about an exodus of athletes. No Niko can tell me the Council of Ministers isn't in charge of these things. Now they're preparing teams for European championships and their departures, and I'm in a position with my colleagues to fund state teams out of our pockets because otherwise they can't go to European competitions. It's a shame and a shame for this country. When I mentioned last year, when I passed the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Variety, that it would have no positive effect on sport, it was against me. And here it turns out that there's no positive effect on sports. Don't tell me there are no mechanisms in the Council of Ministers that can get rid of these things. All I have to do is, let's say, a little more political will to solve these problems because it's about national teams. So that's something that's completely incomprehensible, and I really can't make up with the fact that we have a report like we have and that of the few things that are very important for the representation of the state in Europe, because that's why we're going to get the impression, and not just as we're being told now during our visit to Berlin, brutal things have been told that I've been very uncomfortable. The other thing is, what is the attitude towards us parliamentarians? I asked a very simple question from the foreign minister, if he had come to me and told me – you know I can't answer you in writing but I can tell you that I can't answer that question, I would accept it. But one complete disregard and no answer to my question is something that offends dignity, first of all, here I speak it myself, but I think it should offend anyone here who sits in this room here, so anyone from the Council of Ministers, whom we have chosen, can treat us. So don't just tell me that it can't be better, it can only be better if people who do these things want to and want to solve this problem. I once again warn, the teams can not leave, very easily it can happen, and then at the press conference we will call on all those we have prayed and under human dignity, I have begged and begged, together with my colleagues, not to give their money, but to give state money to the national teams. It's a shame and a shame. I don't want to talk about education that's catastrophic, I think that's what my colleague Komšić mentioned. Well, if it's so bad, can't you say it? But here, I said what hit me personally and personally, where I'm extremely present and extremely active, for 24 years I've brought huge funds to basketball, I've never taken a dinar, I've never charged for the phone, I've charged for no gas, I've never charged for a living. And that nobody, that, that's irrelevant, you know we're all dealing with global and big politics, but what life does is nobody's business. And that's the point. And I seriously object to certain ministers, and I think everyone has to engage a lot more than it has ever been before. And I think that's why I absolutely express my dissatisfaction with all these things we've heard here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19289	Thank you. We still have a registered representative of Mirsad Isaković. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19290	I thank the chairman. I'll be very brief with just a few things that are not covered by this report or which have been partially spotted, which are not clearly, therefore, processed. We said that the Council of Ministers' Work Programme of 65 of the laws provided for, so it shows enough how much work they had done for themselves. So, there's not a single word about BHRT, the IPA programs were talked about but it wasn't said that only 28.7% of IPA funds were used, and we only realized 4.8%. So, absolute lack of interest in IPA funds. They can give us billions, too, but we obviously won't or don't know how to use those funds. And I'll just remind you that in the year that Croatia entered the European Union, it had 800 to 1,000 people who were employed, therefore, to work programs, IPA programs and to use IPA funds. We don't have a strategy in this field today, at least I haven't seen it, nor in this report stands, in which we would clearly see that people are being educated for the design of the programme and for the development of this country. What's very important to me, and it's not said here, is the issue of Agrokor, so there's not a single sentence mentioned. And a very short question for the Council of Ministers – how many questions from the questionnaire have this coordination mechanism been? I don't think any of them have passed. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19291	Thank you. I now conclude the debate, so I conclude the debate and I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Denis Zvizdić, because he said he wanted to look back.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19292	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Once again, I welcome the distinguished representatives and MPs, my colleagues, the media, all present in this room. I came out just to thank the majority of MPs for extremely correct discussions and for a large number of very high-quality guidelines, suggestions that will certainly help us to do even better and better quality in continuing our work, but, behold, I went out and answered a few discussions, especially those representatives who in their discussions, although they are not doing very well, tried to be funny, and even cynical, trying to cover their politics, criticalism and flatulence with such unusual behaviour for this esteemed Dom. So I'm going to answer only part of the MPs to those arguments that really aren't based on any facts. With regard to the performance of the distinguished representative Magazinović, I will not, of course, compare him with the kockica, because man was funny that he wasn't, but if I didn't know you personally, I would think that Koperfild came to Parliament, who, of course, is trying to hypnotize us, to believe only him, and to forget everything that the SDP had done in the previous term, and at the head of an unimpeached leader. Since you led three key reactors, we should now forget all about it and act like the whole world came from today and this report. So I just want to remind you maybe of some things, right, because of course you haven't made any arguments within the numerous flossules that you've said, and the effect of the SDP that had three key ministries, I repeat, with an uncut and beloved leader at the head, was a complete block of European institutions. Tell us only one argument at a time when the SDP ministers were at the Council of Ministers in which we progressed on the path of the European institutions, give us only one piece of information. NATO Block 73 Pacts and MAPs, we know from which party was the minister, say the number of locations registered as the talinski condition. Stagnation on the path of economic development, tell us the parameters of this period from the GDP, the number of employees, exports and all that should reflect Bosnia and Herzegovina's economic development. You are talking about strategies, how much a strategy was adopted at a time when the SDP ministers played a dominant role in the Council of Ministers. Zero strategies were adopted, which is why we lost IPA funds and we lose 400 million in a three-year period because there was no strategy you were in charge of adopting them. Tell us your activity, you mentioned culture, of course, you're most famous for the fact that the Earth Museum has been closed for years, that Bosnia and Herzegovina has come to Manival's blacklist, that there has been no co-operation with Europol, that international co-operation and co-operation with neighbours has been at the lowest possible level. It's the effects of what we're going to talk about all the time, and whenever you ask me about my exposés, which I'm very proud of, the overall realization of, my initial response will be a reminder of these amazing successes, and then, of course, a response to the realization of the work of the Council of Ministers, the exposés. Of course, you've had great success, I must admit. One of the biggest deals with Milbauer is that you have honored the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina to pay for the most expensive IDs and driver's licenses in Europe and in the region. As for the presentation of the esteemed representative, Emrić, you analyzed it, but by mixing data from '13. Until '16. You actually tried to justify the arguments you're making, even though they don't speak at all about real facts, and this is the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for '16, not the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for '13. A year. And you've made, of course, very strange, strange comparisons, because let's say in your statement, your performance, I practically quote you, you say that it's almost identical to the number of unemployed and employees, although before you say that 500,000 are unemployed and 760,000 employees, but you're trying to justify that these two numbers are practically the same, and the difference is almost 300,000. There isn't a respected representative of Šepić, so I won't even speak, although of course I've had a lot of facts to look back on his discussion. On very correct issues, Gasal-Vražalica can say that 22 strategies have been adopted so far, but I was talking about two strategies that were related to IPA funds. So, for IPA funds, there were four relevant strategies, transport, environment, energy and agriculture so far, two, transport and the environment have been adopted, we expect a very fast adoption of the energy strategy, probably by the end of this year and agriculture, and that will actually end four strategies that would allow us to extend the IPA funds for the period of '18-20, for which we have not had the opportunity to access these funds. As for the esteemed representative Sokolović, my dear former party friend, but now personal friend, I'm just going to say one little short note, not wanting to, wanting to mention to one of the appropriate dictionaries the fact that when it comes to MAP, we get the impression that we got the talinski terms seven days ago. That's how you perform, and that's how everyone who talks about the MAP came along. So, the Tallinn conditions were won by Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2009. It has been eight years since then and this, for example, coincides with your two mandates in the BiH Parliament and it would be nice to know how many initiatives, how many activities, how many projects, how many laws have you started to resolve the talinski condition in those eight years? Now it turns out suddenly that the talinski condition came seven days ago and this Council of Ministers is supposed to solve it in seven days. We've done 27 times more in a year than the previous eight years, because we've registered 27 locations, and we've found that none of the locations have been registered. 74 As far as Annex VII is concerned, nowhere and never written nor said it was finished, and as long as there is one person in Bosnia and Herzegovina who wants to return to its pre-war habitat, Annex VII is not finished. On the contrary, it is thousands of residential units that are being renovated, for which there are projects, money provided and, in that sense, if necessary, Minister Borovac can provide very precise, special and detailed information on this. I had prepared and answers to, here, some specific questions asked by Mr Komšić, but he's not here either, so I'll avoid it. As for the discussion of the esteemed representative of Arnaut, I can say that the exposures are related for a period of four years, not for 2016. It is realized by high quality dynamics and at the end when the time comes I will submit a report on the results of everything that is written in the exposé. Of course, I cannot accept the principle and strategy that is constantly asking about some new strategies. A few years ago, you asked what happened to the Transport Strategy last year, so when we adopt it, then you suddenly forget it and wonder what happened to the Environment Strategy, when we adopt it, then suddenly you wonder what happened to the Agriculture Strategy, etc. So we're very seriously doing all our work and harder like, say, these that we've been overrun by neighbors are totally unsustainable. I've shown slides, all our neighbors have completed their candidate status before the appointment of this Council of Ministers, so before 2014. We may have broken the deadline for the questionnaire for several months, but before that, a period of 8 years of the European stagnation of Bosnia and Herzegovina was breached, and we have significantly dynamicized these processes. As far as the information in the report is concerned, they are absolutely accurate and should only be able to read it, because it is planned and realized. I received the information directly, i.e. we received directly from the ministries and their services and ministers responsible for these types of information and there is nothing disputed about it. And as far as this report is concerned, he as a part of the agenda, as I see it, is not addressed as a report on the work of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but as a report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I ask you to stick to it. As far as the visa-free regime is concerned, there is, of course, Minister Crnadak who can answer all the other questions you've asked. And, here's a little explanation, I end up with that, regarding the request you made for the replacement of Deputy Minister Jusić. So, I never explained this request in the way you presented it, I made it very clear that I asked you to repeat the request in which the SBB was just asking for the change of the minister and I'm going to run that shift immediately, but not on the grounds that he violated the Constitution and the laws, because the investigation committee didn't realize it. And I don't want to prejudge that kind of, that kind of thing, so here's what I'm saying, a meal for Deputy Minister Jusić. And finally, I completely agree with what Mr. Đonlagić said, we have the same attitude when it comes to sports. I just want to say a few data, remind all of us together, that in the item, the budget item for the budget and culture when this Council of Ministers was appointed, we found 0 funds. So believe it or not, I don't know if you remember, but the budget item for sports and culture that inherited this Council of Ministers was 0, see now what your amounts are. So we are constantly working on this issue and this year we have increased the funding for professional sports alliances understanding the need for these alliances to have funding, esteeming their successes and I really see as the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the capacity that I have always stand behind increasing the budget for sports alliances, increasing the budget for sport and culture, of course the separation for those sports alliances that make serious international results, but you also know that we in the Council of Ministers must have unanimous decisions and consensus in order to adopt such decisions. 75 Here, only the digression, asked by Mr Komšić, so we did not depend on the opinion and attitude of Republika Srpska regarding the Transport Community as the Council of Ministers, but we could not get a consensus of all ministers, including those who came from Republika Srpska without the opinion and attitude of the Republika Srpska government. That was the reason why no consensus was reached regarding the Transport Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19293	Thank you. I said I had concluded the debate, but apparently some of the MPs don't think so. So now I wouldn't explain further, Damir Arnaut, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19294	I thank the chairman. That's exactly what I want to point out, so two members of the Rules of Procedure. Article 75 says – learners in the debate, MP or other participants in the debate at the House can speak when asked and receive a word from the chairman but no longer than 10 minutes. And then article 180. – the rights and duties of the Council of Ministers, point d) – has the right and obligation to intervene in discussions. So, if the chairman, Zvizdić, did not just participate, or intervened in the debate, then the question to which member of the Rules of Procedure he spoke is raised. So, I assure you, I am sure that you are aware that there is no member of the Rules of Procedure by which it was possible to address Mr. Zvizdić except in the debate. Therefore, the debate cannot be concluded and that after that anyone, an MP or another participant, participates in it. I therefore call on you to, and for the sake of clear business provisions, but also for the principle of democracy, allow some of these things that Mr. Zvizdić said, including what SDS and SNSD asked us to do, we will immediately vote for Jusić's shift. Mr. Zvizdić has just joined SDS and SNSD, and we will never take it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19295	Thank you. I would only ask you not to educate me when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. I know him enormously, and I know that he has not solved all the possible questions and in that he is the role and task of us who lead this Parliament, including you MPs. So this is one of the unresolved questions, you know that. I know I can't deny a word to anyone who's looking for it but I tried, asked you to listen to the chairman, to conclude the debate. You don't want to, it's obvious, so you want to talk, so here you go. Mr. Sasa Magazinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19296	I thank the chairman. Mr. Zvizdić, you are not here to ask but to answer, and when you are running in the next term, so you are elected to Parliament, then you will ask, and someone who sits there will answer questions. You have shown by your stand that you are no match for the function you are acting, because the way you responded to me corresponds to a policy of cantonal form, the statesman does it much more charmingly and much different. The statesman, if there is nothing so wise that 76 of what you have spoken finds an apostle and asks him to replicate to me, does not descend as low as you have sent down. In your political disorientation, you have offended a number of colleagues with whom you are sitting in the Council of Ministers, who also participated in the previous Council of Ministers. That individual reports are on the agenda believe that some of the Ministers' reports would be adopted, but as they are with you together, they will all experience the same fate and they are not to blame. In the end, by avoiding the answer, you are not running away from my questions, but from yourself and your unfulfilled promises of which you were unable to say anything. And in this exposé, which is abounding with unfulfilled promises, you have, among other things, said the following – I know that I and the Council of Ministers will be under great pressure and that our key rival in the fight for the implementation of these reforms will be time and great, but I must say, justified expectations of our citizens that after a long period of stagnation, positive changes will begin. Your key rival, it's neither time nor great expectations, your key opponent in implementing reforms are you yourself, and the positive changes are so positive that everything is working out, from the party to the coalition. [[Employee is warned on time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19297	Thank you. Representative jasmin Emrić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19298	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have to correct the misquote of President Zvizdić because I did not mix the data, and I pointed out very precisely that I had compiled the data in 2016 with data from earlier years. I think it was clear to everyone that it was not mixing, mixing, but compatriation, comparison, so that I could objectively assess the work of the Council of Ministers in 2016 with earlier years, so let's see how these things stand and whether the Council of Ministers in that part, for example, for the sake of legislative activities, can get a passing assessment. And how else do we get some objective judgment if we're not going to run an analysis, and the analysis is only done with precise data. They're not mixed at all, I'm not going to do it again. And I said that you didn't get the exact figures on the number of laws passed for 2016, and you accurately stated, on page 1 -- the introduction, you listed 19 proposed laws, in part three of the report, you count, you'll see that in the fifth column, it says for 25 proposed laws. And I specifically asked you to tell us what the data is, whether on the first page or on the third part of the report. Also in part three of the report... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] exactly, thank you, I also cited it in my discussion because I realized that it was a mistake on the first side of the opening part of your report. I also did not say that the same number of employees and unemployed, but I will now quote myself, said the following – data from the Statistical Agency of December 2016, where it was stated that in December 2016 the total number of persons employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina was 737.954 and registered 510.022 unemployed, which by that the number of unemployed has almost reached the number of employees. [[The ambassador is warned 77 on time]] The difference is 227.932. But when you compare the country's data in the environment with that statistic...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19300	Thank you, Jasmina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19301	Then you'll see how much we're in a difficult situation as far as the environment is concerned...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19302	Time's up, Mr. Emrić. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, correcting the wrong allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19303	I know it's a matter of decision and a matter of political consensus, but that's also the responsibility of the parties who decide on these matters, or people who come from these parties, that's a bigger one. But please, Bosnia and Herzegovina admires Marin Čilić, who plays for Croatia from Medjugorje, Bojan Bogdanović, who is the most expensive NBA league player from Mostar, Zubcu Benderu, who is from Chitluk, then Begić and Osmić, and they play for Croatia's team, so Begić and Osmiću from Zivnica who play for Slovenia's national team, then the girl who is from Brcko's best volleyball team of Serbia and the best volleyball team in Europe or, say, Kuzmić who is a star of the transitional deadline and now plays for Real Madrid. I've been talking about these things, maybe someone in this country, and they're answering that these young people are leaving this country. So why are we going to be into sports, so why are we going to be educated, we don't need it, we need others, and we're going to be supplying other countries with young people, young athletes. This cannot be a question of the consensus of political parties that decide on these matters. It is an imperative that must be resolved in this country and the responsibility of those in the most prominent positions is therefore greater and there is no justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19304	I'm closing the debate. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Report on activities related to the construction of the Pelješke bridge and events related to the construction of the bridge on the Sava near Svilaj – submiter: Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH (realisation of the parliamentary initiative adopted at the 49th session of the House of Representatives, held on 05.07.2017.) Act No 01-50-1-1474/17, 25.07.2017. The BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport delivered the report you received on 25.07.2017. Mrs. Vajzović wanted to ask the MPs whether they were ready to discuss it today or not. Are you staying with that attitude of yours so I can ask the MPs if they're going to discuss it today, or are we going to leave it for the next session? This is the agenda point now. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19306	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like one, one opening someone with a proposal for conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19307	Before you go, we have to solve this issue. So, are you still staying that, with your position from the beginning of the session, when it comes to the agenda, to ask the MPs if they have read this at all, this came to Parliament here at four o'clock yesterday, are they ready to debate or for the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19308	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19309	So, you tell me whether you stay with it or not. If you're not staying, we're going with the debate, this is the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19310	Okay, I'll tell you. Since we've already included it, maybe we can settle it with the conclusions that for the next session, it was my idea, to separate these two points for the next session and leave the practical debate at the request of the Council of Ministers to supplement what they are so far. I wanted to point out, what they sent as material would be worth supplementing because it's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19311	Mrs. Vajzović, I repeat again.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19312	Not this point to pass on.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19313	So there's nothing we can do now...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19314	There's nothing we can do?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19315	About this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19316	If there's nothing else we can do but leave this, the debate for the next session, then that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19317	Is that what you're staying with? 79
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19318	Are you with the proposal to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19319	Do you suggest I ask the MPs now, Parliament, to remove this for the next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19320	It can be downloaded as a mandatory point. If it's possible to separate these two issues equally important, take this. Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19321	Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19322	Well, it was Svilaj, Peljesac, to leave for the next session. Well, most of them complained it was late and here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19323	I'm putting on Mrs. Hanka Vajzović's proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19325	I really, uh, see, here, can I call you the chairman? I think it came out very clearly from Mrs. Vajzović's discussion that she suggested a maltene conclusion that this should be delayed and completed. I think that's okay. It can also be voted on, so according to the agenda, it can be done, it can be concluded that it can be postponed for the next session. I really have an obligation to intervene business when I hear something meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19326	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19327	Well, I don't think we have any other option either. In fact, as the competent Commission here is the Commission for Transport and Communications. This material was not considered by the Commission after receiving the Council of Ministers, i.e. by the Ministry. It would be natural and logical, therefore, if, before coming to Parliament, this material were found on the competent Commission, which would result in the status of the mandatory item of the agenda and could not be removed. That is why I think that, simply today, we should take off the agenda, go to the Commission's 80-year mandate, and get a report from the Commission responsible for the next session on this initiative. It seems to me that this practice has so far been and I don't see why we should step down from it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19328	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, injured the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19329	Thank you. I've been misapplying, I'd better get this right away, so I'll be in line before. Well, colleagues came forward, so the colleague suggested and they said they wanted to discuss it today. So what do we do now, then, about this? Either you open this agenda point, they have conclusions, or there's already what's going on, let it end. The colleagues who are now saying that they are not ready to vote and support this item of the agenda, so it doesn't make sense. So this whole thing doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19330	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19331	I was thinking, that one, that one, that I turn off, but you have to fix this for me, but since I'm, uh, something's not working, Mr. Chairman. We made a statement once, so what's the problem with opening this issue today, we don't have to conclude it, so here's the Council of Ministers, Minister. By the time we get here, by the time it's our turn in this House that we have a position, near Neum will be the opening, uh, solemnly, of this bridge. That's so slow, that one, we're reacting. So, what is more important, we do not need to have bad relations with Croatia, every delay, therefore, opens, this one, and raises the question of relations with Croatia. Maybe there's no problem, maybe there is, so we should get that answer. Why hang it like a problem between the two countries, maybe there's no problem, some think there is, and we don't have an answer. It was almost a meeting of the Council of Ministers and Government of Croatia together, a joint session. Well, as I said last time at Parliament, that should have been one of the questions that, I don't know, I don't know if that's what's been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19332	Thank you. Representative Damir Bećirović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19333	This is again, as colleague Lovrinović, a 10 minute break on behalf of the club, the easiest way to get to the word. Well, no, the way you are. We're looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19334	Yeah, yeah, sure, 10 minutes break at the DF Club's request. 81 We're going back to work. The DF club asked for a break. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19336	We agreed on what we needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19337	Okay. Mrs. Vajzović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19338	She didn't check in, so let's get her checked in.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19339	Just sign in, Mrs. Vajzović. Here you go, Mrs. Vajzović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19340	Thank you, Chairman. So I sent this initiative after I failed to get quality answers on the committee, so I transferred it to the House of Representatives. This lasts, the answer came, I would say, at 12:05 p.m., so after working hours yesterday, more colleagues expressed regret that they would not be able to participate in the quality of the debate because they did not get the material in time. I accept so much that this point is transferred to the next session, as a mandatory point, and that the debate is within the agenda planned for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19341	Thank you. I would like to put Mrs. Vajzović to the vote, to postpone this for the next session. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 23 votes for, 7 votes against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority This will be the point of the agenda of the next session. We're going to Dot 10, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Research Commission of the PSBiH House of Representatives to determine the situation at the Export-Credit Agency of BiH, issue: 01-50-5-223-9.9.17, since 27.06.2017 You got the report. The investigation committee proposes to adopt seven conclusions to the House. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19343	Amir Fazlić...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19344	Are you staying? Are you insisting on Amire?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19345	I just wanted to draw attention to... the entity, only the Council of Ministers is in charge, not all jurisdiction here at the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19346	So, discuss Amir Fazlić, now you proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19347	Well, nothing, here's my basic observation by these conclusions, so... entity to define, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19348	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH, Proposer of the point: MP Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1-15-50/17, of 26.07.2017 I'm opening a debate. Representative Damir Arnaut, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19350	I thank the chairman. You, if you take a stenogram of the March 2015 House of Representatives session, when it is filled together, or when all the joint committees, including this Joint Commission, are filled, you will find my discussion in which I pointed to the fact that Article 52. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives make it very clear – The Joint Commission has 12 members, 6 of whom are elected from the House of Representatives and 6 from the House of Peoples, with 2/3 members choosing from the territory of the Federation, 1/3 from the territory of Republika Srpska. And then I pointed out that this, and then there were three where there was this entity imbalance, in two cases, if you remember and you can look at the stenogram, the imbalance was at the expense of the Federation, and in one case at the damage to Republika Srpska. The college then removed it from the agenda, held consultations, corrected the entity imbalance in the case of two commissions, of the three joint committees I pointed out, but did not do so in the case of this Commission. And then a really bad precedent was made, and I will say a dangerous precedent, given the specificity of this Commission, because I remind this Commission is the only minority that is not regulated by 83 only by the Rules of Procedure, but its existence and operation is explicitly regulated by the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH. The point of view, therefore, is an extremely important commission. That question, unfortunately, the College ignored, put to the vote, and we got, I think for the first time in the history of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Joint Commission where there was this entity imbalance and the damage to the Federation, because it is 7 members of the Federation Commission, and 5 from Republika Srpska entities, which clearly does not seem 2/3 compared to 1/3 because that ratio is 8-4. Given that this issue is now reopened in terms of membership in this Commission, where it is proposed to replace one member of that commission from Republika Srpska, and I say, I will absolutely stick here to the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the OSA, not at all to enter names or entities, because I believe that this is less important, largely proposing the replacement of one member from the Republika Srpska entity and proposing that this member be replaced with another member of the Representative's House also from the Republika Srpska entity, which would keep that entity imbalance at the expense of the Federation of BiH. Now, when I said a little bit of a dangerous precedent, I'm moving on to Article 18. The Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH, which also says very clearly and explicitly – members of the Joint Commission run in accordance with the principle of proportionate representation of political parties in the House of Representatives, means according to the principle of proportionate representation of political parties in the House of Representatives. The proportional representation of political parties in the House of Representatives is as follows by SDA 7 of 42-16.6%, compared to that of the SDA, there is only one member of the 12 in this Commission and that is 8.3%, therefore double your proportional representation in the House of Representatives. The SDS in the House of Representatives, and now I'm sticking to the strict terminology of the OSA Act, the SDS has 5 out of 42 members in the House of Representatives, because the Law, Article 18. The OSA law says – according to the principle of proportionate representation of political parties, not clubs, the political party SDS in the House of Representatives has 5 members of 42 and that is 11.9%, in the OSA's work commission have two members at present and that is, 2 out of 12, that is 16.6%. So, they already have 11.9%, 16.6%, and 11.9% in this House. But here, even if we give them the club that counts 7 out of 42 then in the House of Representatives their proportional representation is 16.6% and that's identical representation of two members of 12 in the Joint Commission, it's also 16.6%. However, if this changes, if we now give the SDS 3 members in the OSA Labour Control Commission SDS will be 3 out of 12, that's 1/4, that's 25%. Now I'm really asking the SDA, which has 8.3% in that commission, is it ready to give the SDS 25% in that commission? I think it's absolutely contrary, the first thing to the Federation's entity interests, the second thing – what you do, you want to give the SDS 25% control over the Commission, so no one has it. Take a look, please, at the OSA Labour Control Commission, there is one member, the SBB has one member, the Independent Block of one member, the DF of one member, the SDP of one member and the SNSD and the SDS have two members each. Now how do we give the SDS three members, and the SDA stays with one member, the DF stays with one member, the SBB stays with one member, and the SDS suddenly gets those three members? This is absolutely, so I remind you now, we have this entity imbalance that the Rules of Procedure are not allowed, because then there will be a ratio of 7 from the Federation, and 5 from Republika Srpska which is not 2/3 - 1/, but we have a much more serious legal problem, because Article 18 The OSA law says -- members of the Joint Commission are running according to the principle of proportionate representation of political parties in the House of Representatives. Even if we recognise the status of our club, all 7 of these MPs, I can still, on no principle, get 3 members in the Joint Commission of any kind, and especially the Joint Committee on Oversight over the work of the OSA, given the very clear and precise text of Article 18. The OSA Act. I therefore call on the College to take this issue very seriously, not to be managed here by the arrangements reached before this session, no matter what SDA and SDS have promised each other, I warn you that 25% of the SDS is given beyond the very clear provisions of the OSA Act,, if 84 has already been broken by the Rules of Procedure and after that, after Mrs Pandurević's initiative, we finally have the opportunity to correct this mistake made in the matter of Rules of Procedure, do not go another 10 steps forward, and to violate a very clear article 18. The OSA law will then be subject to full parliamentary supervision, i.e. the validity of the same over this extremely important agency, extremely important for Bosnia and Herzegovina's security. Don't let personal thinking take you in that wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19351	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19352	I thank the chairman. Now I understand that this time the SNSD colleagues didn't report when they had a very good legal favor from Mr Arnaut, I think Milorad Dodik is very proud of him today. You know, there are principles in life, and when you don't stick to those principles, at least you have to keep your mouth shut. All of us here remember, and our Rules of Procedure determines that all commissions should be represented according to a certain principle, and one of them is the representation of political parties and the number of MPs they have, and then there is an agreement to see the equality of the people, and then you are just a colleague of You, Arnaut, something that belonged to the Croatian people according to the agreement, and that is the place of the most important commission in this parlament of ustavnopravni, you have put pressure on Mr Komšić to move from that position and, behold, you did not insist on being a representative of the Croatian people again, there you have sat down. So, like Furia, you swept Mr. Komšić out of our delegation in the Council of Europe, so you could sit down. Well, I don't want to remind Mrs. Maja Gasal-Vražalica-The Devil and Mrs. Hanka Vajzović, you've all swept them up and taken positions according to the number of MPs belonging to the DF. I'm not going to go to that extreme to calculate, and I believe that there are so many broad-breasted people in the DF, they didn't need to count the percentages and how much damage they were damaged for. Mr. Komšić works very well in the Constitutional Commission whether or not he was in charge of it. Furthermore, the SDS says it has 25%, and I think we should, given that we represent Republika Srpska, have 33.33. But it doesn't matter, that we have and 80 doesn't mean absolutely anything, don't manipulate the public here, because you know very well how joint committees function, that for each decision of the joint commission, one Srbin, one Hrvat and one Bošnjak and of course a number of delegates from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples must vote. There is no agreement between SDS and SDA on the replacement of Mr Špirić. SDA's like everyone found out here this morning. There is something called protecting the law and I am surprised that you, as a lawyer, have not written a criminal complaint against Mr Špirić, because the president of your party knows perfectly that Mr Špirić has forged the conclusions. And I guess first of all, it's here to, uh, our obligation to protect the laws. You mean to say you feel sorry for Nikola Špirić, that's the point, that Nikola Špirić should stay there. Why if a man broke the law? How can we believe that even more brutal abuses will not be committed, how can we believe the chairman who says in February – in the case of "The mouth" was not, OSA was doing the right thing, there was no listening to Serbia's officials, and then at last session, OSA listened to Serbia's officials? Is that an answer to the work of the chairman of the Intelligence Agency Supervisory Commission? Not to mention the other failures of Mr Špirić, who has been using the Commission for a very long time from his position in the Council of Ministers only to arrest half of his family, including 85 of his son, in the Intelligence Agency. And if you will, I wonder how his son got the extension of his mandate in Belgrade, did he use that position to get his son to continue his mandate in Belgrade? We need to clear these things up. It says - listening to Serbia's officials is being listened to. I, forgive me, doubtful, on the basis of that, that was the son of Nikola Špirić, who is sitting in Belgrade, he is the only one who can do it because he works there, there doing the work of intelligence. So there are no agreements, there are no conspiracy theories, no one in Intelligence, there are neither SDA nor SDS together without HDZ can, or without representatives of the Croatian people, make any decision. I think it's the Agency's job to protect legality, to examine legal work and management and to make sure that the Agency works legally, but also to prevent the political pressures that try to prevent the Agency from working in accordance with the law. And I'm surprised that this agency didn't, that commission didn't report for scandalous attacks on people who were targeted at the back, who were working at the Intelligence Agency. It's terrible for me to say, there are 200 Srbin from Republika Srpska working there, that it's an enemy agency. There are people working there who created Republika Srpska, whether those guys were coming to me from Banja Luka who work upstairs in the center, someone put a label on their backs. Will someone who's mentally unaccountable tomorrow for such statements attack these guys, make an act of some unfortunate in Banja Luka up there. And on all that, it's interesting, kept quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19353	Thank you Representative Mladen Bosić, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19354	It is clear to me, I think, and to all, that the SBB will obviously not vote for Mr Špirić's shift, and now we need to find a reason why, as it probably explains to those people, not the party's top, because the party's top probably set it up and ordered it, but how to explain it to people from the party who won't be able to understand it easily. But I did not answer for this, but to explain to you, or to inform or remind Parliament that there was a choice of members of this Commission at all. Since the start of the negotiations, we have been against Nikola Špirić being a member of the Commission because he has an obvious conflict of interest, because his son, that is, the nearest member of the Agency. And that was just enough reason for us to ask him not to be on that committee. Republika Srpska belongs to 4 seats because 1/3 of all the members of the Commission should be from Republika Srpska, of the 12 members of Commission 4 are from Republika Srpska. In this House of Republika Srpska, they have, from Republika Srpska, two parties from Republika Srpska and has one representative then of the SDA Club, Mr Sadik Ahmetović. We agreed to give two members from the SDS Club and two members from the SNSD Club at the time, and then the SDA insisted that Mr Ahmetović be a member of the Commission too, and so came this situation mentioned by Mr Arnaut. So, not our attempts to get more out of Republika Srpska than anticipated, but the request from the SDA that their MP from Republika Srpska be a member of the Commission. That's enough to make it clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19355	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19356	It's very interesting how time passes as people increasingly show their true face and I'm now interested in whether the U.S.A. will allow this. Mr. Bosić, what you are now, walking in a very thin line, Mr. Ahmetović, is not an equal enough representative from Republika Srpska's entity, that when he enters a joint commission, what are you saying, because of the company, which is why he is not an equal enough MP from Republika Srpska's entity? The Republika Srpska entity elects 14 MPs in this House, elected 14, he is one of those 14 and he enters this quota of 4 as many as Republika Srpska, 14 out of 42 is 1/3, 4 out of 12 is 1/3, everything is divided by Dejton, watch out for it, not from Dejton, let's go back a little, from Geneva and New York. In Geneva and New York before Dayton, this principle was established by you now, and applies equally to Bosniaks, Srbin and Hrvat from Republika Srpska entities. As for Mrs Pandurević, I am not a lawyer to the SNSD, I am a lawyer to the Federation of BiH and its interests when others from this entity do not want to do so, and here it turns out that after Mr Bosić's discussion I should also be a lawyer to the Bošnjak, and it was not a problem alone and Ganić can and, and very successfully, as you know. One thing you said, the president of the SBB, Mrs. Pandurević, knows that Špirić broke the law and that's why I should know. I don't know, he never talked to me about it. You hićete me to tell you why? Because the OSA Act, the Intelligence Data Act, clearly states the principle of the need to know, and if, regardless of what I have the right to know as an MP in this House, by not sitting in that Commission to oversee the work of the OSA, and here I have a representative of the Ministry of Security who can confirm what I am saying, I do not need to know what is going on on on that Commission, and Mr Radončić would break the law if he told me what is going on on on that Commission. So, I don't know. You said the same thing that I think Špirić I absolutely don't care if he stays with Špirić. [[Employee is warned on time]] However, if Špirić leaves I see this as a final opportunity to enter someone from the Federation. And this is what I was saying in March...../sound warning for the MP... of the year, I speak with the same gleam, the same intensity as today, and that speaks enough of my consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19357	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19358	Well, I will refer to a part of my colleague Pandurević's debate, and I found it interesting, and in a way, glad to hear that no decision in this Committee can be made together without a representative of the Croatian people, in this case by the HDZ BiH. I would ask you to pass on this fact and educate your party colleague, and the Commissioner, Mr Dark Babalj, who told the media yesterday afternoon that a conclusion had been reached on this Committee, which certainly was not a member of the Croatian people from that Committee, not only was he not a member of the Croatian people, but he was not a majority in the Committee. That would be very correct because yesterday from the Committee that works in, I would say, one special regime of secrecy, etc., were given so much disinformation in public, this, that this is amazing, given the character of the Commission and the character of the Agency to which the Commission deals with terribly dangerous and incorrect information. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19359	Thank you Representative Sadik Ahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19360	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Count on me to be from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then it'll probably be an ego, uh, and I think it's a smaller problem than the problem the Commission itself has, and I talked about it at the last session of Parliament in no political way. Unfortunately, some media, which is quite in control of my former political party, have put me in the context of saving Nikola Špirić I just wanted to discuss this very important issue and seriously discuss and step forward in order to do as little damage to the Intelligence Service as possible, and nothing more. Yesterday's reason for not voting with Safet Softić and the argument, which is currently the vice president of the SDA, was identical to what I was saying here at Parliament, completely identical. Unfortunately, as I have already said, so some portals that are funded even by the Council of Ministers, grants from the Presidency, which are financed by citizens, go to that point, so they say Nikola Špirić offers me a place in the SNSD. I will now be a little subjective, so that is the bottom, that Sadik Ahmetović, who was born in Srebrenica, survived the genocide, to honour it. It's what portals are doing that are funded by the SDA. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So there's, there's on the portal, so look, I'll share it with you. And today I think, and yesterday I said it, so the Commission and the way that Nikola Špirić chaired the Commission yesterday is very confusing and concussive, and I think, and yesterday I said that, that the work of this Commission should be serious, but I also think that the work of the Intelligence Service should be serious. The steps we need to step forward are to first resolve this issue that is currently being run at this House of Representatives session, because it is very important for this country how and how the Intelligence Service works. And it must be the service of all the citizens of this country, not of any individual, not of any political party, and at present what I have seen and what I can see is a kidnapping for the OSA, whose will it be. And so I think that we need to deal less with these less important things and that we need to seriousise the work of the OSCE Supervisory Commission, and I think this is a good road that is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19362	Thank you. Representative Mirsad Đonlagić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19363	This is simply amazing how much serious things are unseriously discussed or how difficult qualifications are expressed as a perfectly normal thing, it's the same or said good day or said one such difficult qualification, it's so become normal. This is an extremely serious question, and I don't see this question being taken seriously. You know, there's an insult here of 88 that we don't need, I don't know why it's an insult if someone's expressing their opinion and not being denied in one, with some different, more quality opinion, but rather trying to destabilize it or defamate it or anything that would lose credibility. And that's why I'm asking for a break until six o'clock, so we can continue this discussion... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it's very important to me this question of what we're discussing, I've compared myself with some things in my life that are very important to me, I've listened to unserious discussions, so I haven't criticized anyone why they're unseriously discussing. I'm asking, it's a serious matter, and I'm asking for a 20-minute break so we can continue or discuss this at the next session. After that break, we'll decide what we're going to suggest. Please, I'm asking the chairman to rest until six o'clock.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19365	At the request of the SBB Club of Pauses by 6:00 p.m., we proceed at 6:00 p.m. Please take your seats, continue your work. The president of the SBB Club asked for a break by 6:00. Do we have Mr. Đonlagić to speak to us or is there someone outside the club? Representative Damir Arnaut, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19367	Here, Mr. Isaković, as Deputy Chief of the Club, needs to explain the request for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19368	Okay, we just don't have the quorum as far as I can see. Wait a minute, don't. We do now, do we? Now I've got a quorum. So, Mr. Isaković has a club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19369	I thank the chairman. Consultations were necessary after the new situation. Here, we've consulted and I think the chairman will come, the club president will come and there's no problem, we can continue the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19370	Okay. Thank you. Staša Košarac's representative, discussion. Here you go. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19371	Thank you. I would like to remind all of us of the first initiative that was held at last session of the House of Representatives where the proposing insisted that the chairman of the OSCE Supervisory Commission be suspended. As an argument, the promoter used media performance and media data that appeared a few days before the meeting of the House of Representatives itself. We had a situation after insistence, through oral debate, that the Commission would decide whether this was the case in the media performances. And today, of course, we know how the Commission reacted to this issue through the voting act 7 – 4 – 1 in a way that the Komsija responsible did not determine the reasons why Nikola Špirić should be suspended from the presidency position. At that time, we found the basis for a discussion here at the House of Representatives and for giving the commission to the Commission was a media performance, media inscriptions, writing, etc. Today we have another initiative to seek the removal of Nikola Špirić as a member of the Commission. Based on what, what's the argument today? Does anyone have an answer? Do we have an official position, or report from the Commission, so let's take that as a basis for what we need to talk about? Of course we don't have and we don't have an initial basis for today's debate about the fact that Špirić needs to be removed from the position of a member of the Komsija. And there are facts, there may be someone who doesn't share the same political views, but it's a fact. We need to be aware of the facts and most of you who have been trying to hold talks for several days, to propose someone on behalf of Mr Špirić, to mention some SNDS people, to just try to compare the facts in a tolerated, democratic atmosphere. The SNSD is the strongest opposition party in the House of Representatives. We have six mandates, it is perfectly appropriate and logical that the Republika Srpska SNSD quota as a serious and strongest opposition party has its member in the OSCE Supervisory Commission from the House of Representatives. And we will not give up our political stance by respecting the other House, respecting both all facts and the consolidation of relations, the necessary consolidation of relations in the structure of the Commission. Don't let anyone try to impose any other solutions because these are facts. The chairman of the Committee at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska for Security is a man who comes from the opposition, proposed by the opposition, I assume he was proposed by the Alliance for Change, and he is today chairman of the Commission. The SNSD had opportunities along with coalition partners to appoint another opposition MP for the chairman and the Defence and Security Commission. But it's quite visible here that someone's been trying to impose it as a given topic since day one. There are no stories that only one side of the truth of what they think is employees of the Intelligence and Security Agency based on certain views, and we have information about what employees of the Service are saying coming from Republika Srpska, and we know. And neither should those people who, likely working in difficult conditions, should try to create an additional, additional kind of problem, but we have to be responsible, so say – those who are currently participating in the work of joint institutions, who exercise power, have enabled Mehmedagić to be the director of the obaveštajno and Security Agency, and this is touched by emotions, someone said, demobilised fighters who are working today at the Intelligence and Security Agency and come from Republika Srpska, because they remember him in Voluntary with tanks or I don't know what else. Does that touch your emotions? Yesterday we dated a gun here, at least according to the media records we saw, did anyone talk about it today that the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency is coming to a meeting of the Committee armed? And it offends, and it offends emotions, and it sends a bad message. Therefore, our responsibility is very often to say that someone breaks the law, this House or none of us determines who violates the law. Please mention the families, please don't mention the families. We understand that we have different attitudes, don't let family members know that, don't do this to people in that way. I didn't hear anything like that on the other side. Nothing's going to happen that way. I think this, this, completely inappropriate, this way, this tendency that today's House of Representatives 90 discusses the shift of Nikola Špirić as a member of the Commission, not because Nikola Špirić is our party friend, the vice president of our party, among other things, may be an additional motive and imperative, but we can't claim that Nikola Špirić broke the law because we don't determine that any of the people who participate in institutions has broken the law, and we don't have people officially report from the Commission to oversee the Intelligence and Security Agency. We can't make that kind of decision based on a flat-rate assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19372	Thank you. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19373	I thank the chairman. As I have already stated, this is a very serious issue from the point of view, not only of the Rules of Procedure, but also of the Law on the Security and Security Agency of BiH, so it is a very clear imbalance on the damage of the Federation, it is a proposal from the SDS Club to create an enormous imbalance in favour of the SDS, 25% of the membership in this Joint Commission, and this suggests that the SBB's proposal to separate the SDS Club's decision, to vote first, that the House declares first whether it will ever replace anyone from this Joint Commission. If the House votes to replace one of its members to apply and fully respect this principle 2/3 - 1/3 in favour of the Federation, it shall pay due respect to Article 18. In this case, the OSA law and the SBB Club will propose as a member of the Commission to fill the vacant place, if the discharge occurs, of Professor Mirsad Đonlagić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19374	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19375	Thank you very much. So it is very difficult to say that this Parliament has never had less credibility than it has today, and it has never had it less than in the last term. We never had any less arguments in front of us when we were discussing something, especially we never had enough arguments if we wanted to challenge someone. That's how parliaments usually don't work and even parliaments in our environment don't work. We're making a new picture, and it's a picture of how we're going to blacken someone up, pop up, and no critical moment to look back on it, and find something like an argument, to say it -- that's why you're doing it, and you can't do it. I just want to remind you of the time when the Joint Committee for Intelligence Oversight was elected and that was when Nikola Špirić was the problem. You know why? For competence. For years, the Intelligence Agency has been beyond any control. What is Parliament's task, to oversee especially these two most sensitive sectors, which is the intelligence and defence and security sector, is not the current Parliament's doing. If you were to ask one of the people who are not exactly members of these committees right now, you would see that the issue of parliamentary oversight has never been really set up. I'd be too happy to hear from the people who spoke here, except that they bring 91 every time a handful of this information from the papers, because nothing else they're reading, it would be very good if we saw an actual argument why, why is such a situation in the Intelligence Agency and the key answer whether the Agency works well. If someone decides to replace someone and it is the first time in the history of parliamentaryism at this level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then, be careful, we must have real arguments, to see what the arguments are. The first question that I, as a man, would ask – give me a report from the Commission responsible for controlling the work of the Intelligence Agency to see if it has been established that the Joint Commission is doing its job. We don't have that report. The Commission, as I have seen from what has been said so far, has yet to deal with the fact that it is actually being monitored. On the contrary, the Agency is overseeing the Commission, and this is a unique case, as if the Ministry of Defence were to exercise control over Parliament, a parliamentary commission which is also legally arranged. Look at the reactions, I look at when MPs react and comment there, all those who have had contact and problems with the Intelligence Agency in any way, they judge this problem differently. And all those who think that this country cannot have such an agency that will directly be influenced by two political parties, in this case, who have agreed on all this confusion, the Party of Democratic Action and the Serbian Democratic Party, cannot vote and accept such a thing. So, the citizens of this country need to know that the fight for better work of the Intelligence Agency is such that they don't, that no more funds... I don't know how far they'll lead us all, whether our lives will remain from this kind of struggle. We got mixed up, when I say - we used to think of some people who were over-combining. Therefore, the issue of Nikola Špirić and his remainder at the head of this commission is a question that only one who says he has concrete evidence that he did not do his job properly as chairman and that he has an argument. It cannot happen that one member of this Agency's Supervisory Commission says – we will discuss this only in the follow-up session, and the other says – the Commission has done everything right and the Agency is doing what is right. There are many objections to the work of this agency. And instead of waiting as Parliament for us to get a final position, for the Commission to finish our work, we hurried to erase the man and set someone on whom we would have much more influence and someone who would have much less competence to be the real chairman of a complex commission like this. All those of you who have decided to participate in this, return to the starting point, who knows what this difficult time brings us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19376	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19377	I have heard today or now one notion that OSA is overseeing Parliament, not Parliament over the OSA, that's all you've said. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then someone else said that, and I thought you did. So it's clear, and you can look at what you said in the stenogram, that OSA is overseeing Parliament. Now I ask 92 who's to blame for OSA overseeing Parliament? Is it my fault that I have no information about this because I am not allowed to have them, or the members of the Commission that this Parliament has chosen to oversee the work of the OSCE? That commission we chose here, the one we chose back then, was obliged to ensure that it was overseeing the OSA, and it turned out that it did not provide it. And suddenly that's the problem now, the problem is whether the elected new member of the commission in the order of the Serbian people will know that he is working with another member of the Serb people. I did not accuse Mr Špirić that he had made it possible for OSA to control Parliament, I don't think he made it possible, I don't think it would allow anyone in the Commission in front of this Parliament, not only from the order of the Serb people, but from any of these three peoples. But also, if the Commission closes down, everything she discusses and what it has to do with And what has nothing to do with... then I'll start to doubt that the Commission [[Employee is warned on time]] is located in the same plane with the OSA. [[Employee is warned on time]] I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19379	Thank you, Agent Damir Arnaut, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19380	I thank the chairman. Article 52. The Rules of Procedure prescribes the composition and constitution of the joint committees of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. We heard here from Mr. Novaković twice, a member of the Serb people's committee. This is an absolutely wrong approach, the Serbian people are evenly represented in the Commission, entities are not and if there is a change of members from Republika Srpska's unit, it is necessary that this imbalance which is by mistake by the College, on purpose, because I pointed to this two years ago, which was made at the time, and that 2/3, as the Rules of Procedure prescribes, be from the territory of the Federation, and 1/3 from the territory of Republika Srpska's unit. And the Rules of Procedure are very clear there, and I also really ask the College to point out to Mr Novaković when he speaks casually and completely wrongly about the members of the Commission from the order of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19381	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19382	I was talking about the Serbian people, not Republika Srpska, and now maybe you don't like it and whatever I say next isn't worth it, because there's just no place to go in what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19383	Thank you. Representative Dušanka Majkić, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19384	Mr. Novaković, this is about Mr. Špirić's guilt about the state of OBA, chairing only the first among the equals. It's like, I don't know, sir, I don't know who's got a defense commission here, you're saying he's guilty of the state of the Department of Defense. But there's got to be another thing, if there were any rules in this house, in this high house, it wouldn't have happened that everyone entering the building had to leave a weapon on the ground floor except the Director of Intelligence. He's a hero of heroes, a hero of heroes. No rules apply to him, no rules to put down weapons when he enters the Parliamentary Commission. I guess that's a rule we shouldn't, by which we shouldn't know each other, isn't that a big deal? Well, that says that actually the Commission is a mask, and he's a picture and he doesn't want the Commission to do its job. And don't make an illusion that one man of 12 can make any kind of change.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19385	Thank you. Representative Lazar Prodanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19386	Mr. Chairman. It has proved, unfortunately, that we are no match for the position... many, who decide on these issues. In the last session, I don't think anyone's so strongly destroying the dignity of MPs as we are in the House of Representatives. Last time I said, therefore, that the amazing idea was that this House suspends Nikola Špirić from the presidency's position, I'm not talking about Nikol Špirić or anything, the positions of the chairman of the Commission, and we absolutely have no business jurisdiction in this regard. And then yesterday, when a session of the Commission took place, it was perfectly logical for the House of Representatives to receive the minutes, therefore, or for a copy of the minutes on this point to be held. So, I don't want to protect anyone in terms of any violation of the Rules of Procedure, Constitution or law, but it's amazing to adopt this morning with 23 votes to amend the decision on the election of members of the Joint Commission. In 11 years, never before, as far as I am in the House, there was no such thing as this in the House of Representatives, a suggestion of this kind of agenda. This is an incredible situation that I will compare, let no offense to other colleagues, this is typical of Serbian-Serbian business and impatience, much worse than Balkan affairs. So, I don't have any dilemma at all that there is to discuss someone's responsibility, but if I were to suggest a agenda point, then I would deliver a material that's justified in that. I must also say that the statements we hear from the Commission's session, which is a very important part of, therefore, parliamentary surveillance of intelligence services, which is the most important part of democracy and control, so certain agencies in any democratic country, to hear the very different views that are being expressed about it, and that also says what we are. Believe me, the much more disturbing thing for me is, let's say, signs in the media that appeared about the executives of some of the agencies this morning. I don't know if that's true, but I wouldn't think of it if I was looking for a replacement from the head of that agency. It's not a good message, if that's true, it's a worrying thing. It reminds us of the period that we stayed in the mental part of the action, if these, there are older ones here, from Brionic prey or period, as calculated by humans. I would not have the dilemma of telling Nikola Špirić – Nikola Špiriću, my esteemed colleague, a member of Parliament, are clear arguments that suggest that, in order not to discuss this, I am in favour of having you removed. But to be accounted for that way, to call on the story of who hires, that's below every level, that's what we hear every day that colleagues against colleagues say, that's not good. Do we have any pride to face regarding any 94 of these stories? And in this whole story, therefore, we have estimated that this is an important issue, and that it is not an issue of influence or parliamentary control over the work of the intelligence services, of the functioning of the Armed Forces. And you know what? The result, therefore, is strong control of such services, from anyone, on either side, or political parties, or individuals, powerful men, we did not have the 1990s in the former country. We had a tragic situation in the former country because of it, a tragic situation just because it didn't come into play, so balance or control of something. Now in this story we're calculating, we're saying that this is the way to turn it off and that way. So, I don't think the College should have allowed a debate on this point, simply looking for supplies of material, closed session without public presence and debate it too. As it is possible that yesterday with seven votes, therefore, the adopted, rejected proposal on the suspension of the same, which is the unheard institute of suspension by the chairman of the Commission, with one abstention and four votes against, we have such a decision by the Commission today, because you know what, we need to show how we are going to coerce everyone into the country if they do not exercise someone's political position, if it's not under pressure or if it falls back. What does that even mean? Would it not be logical to seek information from the Commission, make a decision, make a statement about it and continue to work to suit us. Will the sky fall if one of the members of a committee, because we're going to change it that way? This suggests that we need to make clear what procedures are being conducted in the arguments to launch any initiative. If that's how we do it in working bodies whose members we are, so how in the other, uh, institutions where we would be obliged, therefore, and responsible for all that is legality and respect of the Constitution right here. In that sense, therefore, I find this unnecessary, this is the least necessary initiator or motion of initiative, least of all damage. This is the least it takes for any of us to discuss what kind of colleague he is. So, we would have to have arguments if it were a forgery of the record, please, what kind of Parliament is it that I can't get a record in and I can't stand to see that someone broke it, what kind of commission is it that we can't indicate how it's possible to work? What it means now is that I can seriously think that every moment someone in this country is following me, that every moment someone can jeopardize anyone's, uh, security, that any phone conversation I can't do because someone's listening to me. What's that, then? And, too, I think there's been a replacement of thesis here. Best to say, you know what – give this Srbin a change, this other one is no worse than he is. I think that if someone had suggested me in that place, there's no miracle of the sky to accept, but still, it's a matter of decision or attitude. I'm not defending anyone, I'm not talking about whether someone's guilty or not, but voting on a proposal like this the way it's proposed is amazing. Such a decision is incredible, and I think that the House should at least interrupt this session, that the College sets the criteria for the debate on this issue, that we should close the session for the public and anything, and that we should clear up if there is anyone's fault, that each of them should be at that moment. Is Nikola Špirić prohibited from accessing information, so does Nikola Špirić have the possibility of being there? Which is where Nikola Špirić is the person who needs to be taken right off in some commission, or any of us, I'm saying now, I apologize for talking about Nikola Spiric, so in any sense. In this regard, I believe that, if we were to degrade ourselves on basic issues that the most legislative body of a country should not allow, regardless of political diversity. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19387	Thank you. Representative Predrag Kožul, discussion. Here you go. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19388	Well, I will discuss here, or speak as a member of the Committee, in a way almost as if at the invitation of my colleague Novaković that, from this session of the Committee, I say what is not a secret that because of the dignity of this House and because of the dignity of each individual representative when, here, we are discussing in this atmosphere this topic, we have some more information when we have no written material. Of course, uh, I'll say what I can say because you know what the status of these sessions is. I'll tell you what the agenda of that session looked like, and that agenda I get on the table, in the office, in public, so it's not secret information, it's all the press, and yesterday there were them, I don't know how many. So, the agenda of yesterday's session of the Joint Committee was, it looked like this 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 15th and 16th sessions of the Committee. 2. Realisation of the conclusions from the 16th session of the Joint Commission – a debate on the situation in OSA BiH. The second item was called by the Executive Intelligence Committee and the leadership of OSA BiH, except for us members of the Committee, seven other people. At the Committee's session, it was proposed and adopted to reverse these points of the agenda, which is quite atypical, but we also adopted this in such a way as to discuss for one simple reason, knowing that at this first item of the agenda, the adoption of these two minutes might be possible, a lot of debate, and probably some other time and will, so that these seven people who came here would not be burdened with the item of the agenda that they were not concerned with, and they were already there, therefore, three people from the OSA and four people from the Council of Ministers, in fact from this Executive Intelligence Committee. And that's how we discussed it. This debate on the second item of the agenda, which I am certainly not allowed to say here, about the metrics, but I will say, it was a long one, perhaps also fellow Ahmetović used a good word, and the confusion, which is somewhat and can be agreed on, lasted more than three hours, and after that we interrupted the session without debate on the first item of the agenda, it was the adoption of the minutes from the 15th and 16th sessions of the Committee for the reasons why the time of the College, and the Joint College, etc., and that part of the members of the Committee had some other obligations. So, that agenda item containing the measure of what we are talking about here today, any mistakes, guilt, abuses of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman of the Committee, we didn't discuss. And it seems to me, when we're discussing a point of the agenda here today, it's good for everyone here to know, and I'm just saying this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19389	Thank you. Debate, MP Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19390	Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Chairman of the College, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. With attention, though outside this room, I followed the debate on this agenda point and decided to be here for the public. I must say, I disagree with my colleague, Lazar Prodanović, that you do not need to make a decision today, make it. This is not the Commission Nikola Špirić, this is the Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes. I wish the debates I heard were at the level of Parliament's dignity, not to go through public talks, attempts at incrimination, judgments without a court, and I see that this Parliament cherishes this practice, and that 96 can easily create an atmosphere that can do more harm than good in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I am convinced that this is the case, we are the only ones. I ask you, therefore, that Parliament, therefore, is the task of every Parliament to allow parliamentary oversight of the intelligence sector. There is no parliament in Europe and the world where the intelligence sector is not under parliamentary supervision. It's dangerous when intelligence agencies go outside the law and have no parliamentary oversight. It is equally dangerous if there is no internal surveillance through the inspectorate general or if that surveillance is disabled. Somewhere outside the agency's general inspectorate is absolutely... we have it inside the Agency. The least of the problems is whether Nikola Špirić will chair the Commission, but what I ask you in the interest of this country, provide parliamentary supervision. The Agency can't be anyone's political prey, the Agency can't be prepared for training, for pre-proportional campaigns and intra-party accounts. It cannot be prohibited for the inspector general to conduct internal investigations, it is not good in one country that is vulnerable, multiethnic, out of the war, to apply the concept of the intelligence sector as in Turkey, because today you have several hundred thousand people who will be responsible for the verbal delinquency. I object to the introduction of a verbal delinquent in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to instruct the service and to go in that direction, against it. I asked yesterday at the session, if you're not worried if it's closed, open to the public, I can only speak here, even though you said I was abused, that I'm a criminal, like this, like that, etc. So, whoever's looking for someone else's head and putting theirs on a barn, that's an old saying. So, against it, I asked, when is... is the Republika Srpska part of the intelligence community? Yes, it is. Is the Service obliged to exchange intelligence with the institutions of Republika Srpska? I asked – when was the last time that was done? Not once in this term. Yesterday I heard the most embarrassing words about Republika Srpska's leadership on that commission, those who seek my head. The institutions can't be the target of the Service, they're going into a dangerous trap. I beg you, no, don't break the service of the law every day no one in the world, it's dangerous once inside that trap. Why are we afraid? Well, it's not like Parliament's afraid to take over its role in control. Why are we afraid that the inspector general will get legal jurisdiction and conduct internal investigations? Who's that bothering? So are we here to strengthen parliamentary oversight as Parliament or to strengthen the Intelligence Service? Those are real questions, not Nikola Špirić. Choose, fill in, I want to, congratulate my colleagues who will do it, I will not say anything ugly to anyone you choose, nor who is there, these are my colleagues, and I just don't think it's human, it's embarrassing people. It is embarrassing to say that no conclusions have been adopted, and the record says they were adopted with 5 votes for, 3 abstentions – Babalj, counterparts Bećirović and Ahmetović, and 2 votes against, but there are no conclusions. It's the essence of the intelligence sector's problem, it's not Nikola Špirić, so it's not my Agency, it's not a private agency. And we are the only ones, if we show the absence of Parliament and the Komsi's competence to monitor the situation, that people will pay with the head price of such an intelligence sector, which is dangerous, many today feel these scars. I expected Parliament to stand in protection to say – no, it cannot be outside the law and the Constitution. Well, the smallest story is Nikola Špirić, if I was run down by a car tomorrow they'd pick a new one, but pick the words I'm begging you, I've been here 20 years, I haven't offended any of my colleagues, mentioned anyone. If there's a violation of the law, they have institutions that I'm available to every day, if you have any courage, if you have any humanity. I have a feeling today instead of being in the highest legislative body like that old man when his eyes were pulling out and when he said, only you kids are doing your job. All(?) The intelligence sector will catch up with you if it gets out of the law. Where else in one country is there that the board is not one of the representatives of the opposition, swallow you from the majority, where else is it? I don't think he's anywhere. Why won't we take the competencies that belong to us? What are my colleagues afraid to say clearly whether they were part of the majority or not? Hey, guys, we're not the courtroom we're afraid of, that fear scares me. And wherever I am, in the Commission, outside the Commission, I will always argue that the Commission and the Commission's work are being restricted by law, that it has parliamentary oversight of whoever is in it and that the Chief Inspectorate gets the competencies that belong to it. It can't be, it can't be the devastation of the Chief Inspector in timely control of what this Parliament can accept, it can't. I don't think that's good, maybe..., the Commission is in a position to, now decide with votes 6:6. I expected Parliament to ask why that is. If Nikola Špirić is guilty of not having a majority in the Commission, so it can be done in a democratic way, the Rules of Procedure and the Law will be respected again. It is not by chance that the Commission is given the role that the chairman of the Commission has, therefore, that the competences of the Chairman-in-Office of the House. So, I ask you just choose the words, the chosen words, and pay attention to this very important sector in this country, which can build the success of this country, and it can lead us to a situation that we don't know each other. It's time, I want to believe that long ago he's behind us, I want to believe that the Service will not be misused for political accounts, for the installation of the process. Well, it's not like I have to talk about it after 20 years here, where my colleagues who have been through so much training with the international community, which means control of the intelligence sector. So can you who spend 20 years sharing bread with me believe that there's a colleague of yours who would send conclusions that aren't adopted, why you're making up a problem, why would he do that? Well, see what conclusions were adopted, if anyone was interested in what conclusions, in providing sufficient quantum of information for the Commission to decide. I can't believe it. And please don't let Intelligence become a political prey or a megaphone of a party. It's impossible that through the hands of the OSA leadership, there are different party people, I don't care, there's a request from the director of the OSCE and the OHR to our unknown content, it'd be the same as if the head of some US intelligence asked the neighbouring countries to sanction a federal state of America. People where we are, is this a sovereign country? Are we the Parliament who wants to have all the information or not? Close the session, it doesn't matter if I'm a member, the President of the Commission, it's absolutely irrelevant, close the session to talk in time. The timely response of this Parliament is the assistance of the OSCE. These discussions and these kind of words are a consequence of the Intelligence Service. I thought I wouldn't have to speak this way and I don't think at all, my friends, that I was attacked, I said something else might happen, and it says there if the chairman was prevented from replacing him with a private deputy, so secondly, everything there is foreseen. Since you want to break it over your knee, okay, you haven't even waited for a report from the Commission, but today you claim to be misused, you haven't waited for us to send you a report of whatever it is. So, please just do your job, safeguard your dignity and secure the role of Parliament and the Commission. Don't run away from these challenges or they'll slap us, they'll rise up, remember the first democratic parliament that brought us into war, not he introduced us, then they said impossible A situation through avoiding this control of many things I would never want [[Employee warns on time]] It doesn't happen to anyone. [[Employee warns on time]] So, thank you very much, I'd like words to be chosen when spoken in person, don't judge without a court of law, squeeze your strength and avoid political subjugation as a method of reckoning. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19391	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th agenda, 98 Ad. 12. A review of Nikola Lovrinović's parliamentary initiative, submitted on 16.06.2017, which reads: "According to Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 79/14, 81/15 and 97/15), I submit a parliamentary initiative to include the agendas of the next session of the House of Representatives and the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the titled "A statement of the House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on Article 7th century (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the European Parliament", issue: 01-50-1508/17. The House College has designated the Joint Commission for European Integration as responsible for considering this initiative. The initiative's promoter delivered material for the completion of the initiative on 29.06.2017. The competent Commission provided the Information on the initiative on 25.07.2017. The Commission has not declared itself on Nikola Lovrinović's parliamentary initiative, nor has it taken views on any conclusion proposed on this initiative. I'm opening a debate. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19393	I thank the chairman. Now a little European issues, yes, but I wish it hadn't been for this session at the time, but that's how it happened. However, and this is not a very easy topic, and first of all, you said that the Commission did not declare itself, that as a College, you have appointed this Committee to give your opinion about this initiative, that is, this problem, and we are because we can't agree just to send one to the House and the other, that we have a final view of what we do and how. I will remind my colleagues that it is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and that it is already more than a year and a half that we cannot agree on the Rules of Procedure, we cannot actually agree on one of its articles. This article is Article 7, you have seen from this initiative, and we cannot agree on the position of colleagues from the European Parliament in terms of attitudes (3) and (4), the capacity of the delegation is not such that he could accept it, and despite all attempts by me as the chairman of the highest, and also by a colleague from the Delegation, or the Committee on European Integration, and I will remind you that we, in the same composition and delegation in the CAP and the Committee on European Integrations, which this Parliament, together both houses of Parliament, have formed as our own working body over and over again. So, as I couldn't stand it, of course, on behalf of the Committee because I couldn't agree on it either, of course, at the Committee's session, then I submitted this initiative as a representative, and I therefore submitted an initiative about it as a member of the Committee, here not as chairman. Regardless of all that we tried to do yesterday, I actually called a session, of course, on the track of the College's request that perhaps once again we might try a solution. There were several conclusions yesterday that, first of all, I personally suggested, that one of the conclusions was that perhaps today it was not today that the final position of this House was taken, but that it was directed to the Constitutional Commission, unfortunately not even that conclusion could have been passed on to the Committee, until it was accepted in the metrics of this initiative at the Committee, so I might have even withdrawn this initiative if it had been willful, nor had it been accepted. And in the end, the only thing I could do in the Committee, and not to question the work of the Committee, because I really haven't, and I really don't have to say that we've made all the decisions so far on the Committee, I'm talking by consensus, and I'm talking about 99 on the Deletion, so we haven't voted in favour of each other, under the pretext, because you know how it works in these joint bodies. So there's nothing left for me but to actually be the chairman, and even a little bit here I only have a colleague of Nermina, I think, and Aleksandar, yes, this one from the Committee, yes, uh, but to see the House's position on it. So it doesn't make sense that the delegation, so now as a delegation in this composition together with colleagues from the European Parliament, is already waiting this long and you're being warned, you have all the material here from various colleagues from the European Parliament and those who are important and less important, that it's time to settle, and that problem I, here, tried to put before you here. And I, therefore, despite everything that we have not declared there, am the legislator of the initiative, I will propose today that we make a statement on one conclusion, so which would read: - The House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of BiH accept Article 7. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association between the Parliamentary Assembly and the European Parliament, which reads: On the proposal of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee, the Committee's recommendation can be given to the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Council of Ministers, the Council of Stabilisation and Association, the Council of the EU and the European Commission. The second paragraph – The proposal for a recommendation sets out the Bureau of Consensus, so the Bureau is, therefore, the leadership of this POSP, meaning three members of our, three members from the European Parliament, from us are Mrs Nermina Kapetanović and Mr Ognjen Tadić. The third paragraph – Any member of the Bureau may request a recess before the final vote on the recommendations of the Committee for the purpose of compliance. The fourth paragraph – Amendments to the proposal for recommendations and the final text of recommendations shall be considered adopted if they receive two-thirds support from present members of the European Parliament's delegation and two-thirds support from members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation. The second paragraph, to put it this way, i.e. the second point of this conclusion – the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of Parliament, as it goes to both homes, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in charge of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, to schedule a session of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and adoption of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the positions adopted at the meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses. So the assumption of this, these other points is that Dom accepts this. Of course if he doesn't accept, then this in the set, then this second point is unnecessary. Just a few more words, so, which actually means. In their conversation with colleagues at the first meeting of the PPP, they were of the view that they are, therefore, working by deciding on recommendations and what the Committee does to the overhalf majority, that it is a practice and that it is some standard by which they work with all the countries that have become members of the European Union and those who are still waiting for it. We in the Delegation were unable to accept it, so we formed, therefore, by your decisions we have a delegation, so we have brought our Rules of Procedure. We have preparatory sessions, in that Rules of Procedure we actually signed our Rules of Procedure from the Committee. We've been looking for a few hundred protection mechanisms to avoid voting or something that a part of a colleague in the Committee is afraid or afraid of, or rightfully or without right, now I'm not getting into it. At the end of the long talks, colleagues from the European Parliament agreed that, therefore, only this, allow this committee to decide two-thirds, the quorum for the meeting of us 25 is 100 clicks away. So it's said there from both present but two-thirds of the delegation of colleagues from the European and two-thirds majority of us who come there. So, that's, they said was the minimum of theirs that they couldn't go below, because they deviated from their standards. In the end, therefore, that was not enough for us either, then we are back on the proposal that we made through our delegation with the proposal that the recommendations to be voted on by the PDO, so prepare the Bureau and the Bureau to decide by consensus. So, Biro, I told you who did it, and they agreed to it, too, but they only had a problem when the PDO sits down if colleagues from the Parliamentary Committee, therefore, ask to make a statement about something they propose. We might return it to the Bureau again, however, if they insist that the Parliamentary Committee declare it, then they suggest it be done to the two-thirds majority. So these two items that are in your initiative, and now I have put the complete article 7 in order to read in that Rules of Procedure, are, as they say, impossible to give in further, and that is what they expect us to accept. Since we don't have it in the Delegation, I want the House to make a statement about it, maybe it wasn't a practice until now, so the House can't decide on the rules of procedure of a committee, so I've made it a conclusion and that if you accept this as a formulation, you'll charge us to adopt this Rules of Procedure with our colleagues. If I don't, then I don't know, so we'll see what we're going to do, I'll call the delegation and, or I'll decide what I'm going to do, but simply or a delegation in this composition in an inability to, therefore, make a valid decision on that Rules of Procedure or something else needs to be done. But here, therefore, I suggest this conclusion for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19394	Okay, just one question, please, for clarification. Why didn't you come to the Commission on this subject?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19395	So, I told you that I had, that we could plead a position (3) and (4) would not come before you. So, there was a proposal for colleagues at the Committee to declare the measure of my initiative. So they didn't want to make a statement about the metric because that would mean that we agreed on the Rules of Procedure then I would withdraw this initiative, so I'm the only one who can pull the initiative out of the Rules of Procedure because I'm her proposer. Since they couldn't, as we couldn't agree on that conclusion, I suggested that perhaps you should have referred it to the Constitutional Commission, not to us because we, if we could have settled it, wouldn't have referred it to home, wouldn't have referred it to home. For over a year and a half, it's been on our side, and there have been all sorts of suggestions on how to solve it, and we haven't found a solution. So that's why we asked for home help. The second was my proposal not to take the final view today, the proposal for a conclusion, but to return it to the Constitutional Legal Commission, so that at the next session behind the annual holidays, we finally get to the home on this point. Since my colleagues didn't want to accept it either, then my initiative doesn't make sense, but there's no point in me running the delegation for a year and a half, so I can't agree on Article 7. One part of our colleagues feels that we have deviated from the principle, to deviate from our principles set out here for the work of the Joint Commission. Well, they've stepped down from the principle, and they haven't allowed anyone to vote two-thirds except us. So I can't find a solution anymore, chairing alone, there's no point in this standing here, I'm offering to let Dom cut it one way or another. If it's a negative decision of this House and another House, then it'll be the attitude of the House. Or if this is accepted, then that will be the attitude of the House that will oblige the delegation. I don't know what else to do. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19396	Thank you very much for your clarification. Representative Fehim Škaljić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19397	Thank you, Chairman Džaferović. Ladies and gentlemen. birokratizacija is an outwitting in the important matter of co-operation between the European Parliament and the BiH Parliament through the Association and Stabilisation Committee. You don't talk at all, this process has been blocked for two years, we've had one meeting and after that nothing more, it's come down from both sides to outwitting. About what? No Rules of Procedure. When the Rules of Procedure could be the reason why the two parliaments do not discuss it, when the Rules of Procedure argue that the common body with equal shares does not sit down and does not look for solutions together, so before the body jointly makes recommendations that parliaments consider all in the context of its procedures. And with that fact, no one and no procedure can be compromised. Gentlemen, our colleagues in the European Parliament make a strong contribution to no meetings, and I objected. Having problems in the country and not establishing a Rules of Procedure does not mean that we should rule out that the two parliaments in charge of finding solutions to speed up the process of joining Bosnia and Herzegovina are not meeting. I have informed my colleagues in this body – if this continues and in the coming months I will withdraw from it, I do not want to participate in such a dimension, the two parliaments have no co-operation. That co-operation that was designed and planned through the Association and Stabilisation Committees is absolutely bureaucratic and we have no contact except for the administration's contacts. This is unsustainable and should either be defined or disbanded by such a co-operation that does not contribute to anything that is necessary for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19398	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19399	Not to repeat what the predecessors said, the problem here is because of the procedural-intellectual exhibition of Ognjen Tadić at one of the first sessions. And the attitudes are, he has nailed the views that others who are more or less understood, or more or less understood what he is talking about, and from his and some need to dominate and show his legal knowledge of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here, for almost two years there is no body formed, the only body where we and the MEPs are equal. Lovrinović is really trying, I have to say it here, there's no way he tried as chairman to get us out of this problem. With most of these things I disagree, but his approach is well-intentioned and really a man is trying, and here's what we have in front of us today is a well-intentioned attempt to defuse this process. There are no binding decisions, so we need to understand what we're talking about, this body, here and Fehim mentioned, not making binding decisions, these are recommendations that were made before when we didn't have an SAA in force, they just called each other differently. A month in advance, these views are agreed upon, there is no revote, there is no amendments, there are no critical situations, and we have, on this harmless thing, made a problem like this, that if we were to participate in the work and if we knew how banal it was, we would understand the extent of the shame that this Rules of Procedure was not adopted. 102 And one more thing to say, within our delegation can be made at any moment by revote and by Ognjen and Aleksandra, but it doesn't want to be done and it hasn't been done for a year and a half and it won't be done, but let's make this step, I'm not the first one for these 2/3, this is nowhere in the world is 2/3, 3/5, 4/5, there wasn't any proposals. All other countries say half the majority, one month ahead of schedule recommendations and we go to work. So, there's never been a vote. And this is the problem. I'm really appealing, I'm not the first one for these thirds for principled reasons, I'm the chairman and I said it, but I really support the effort to do it, so here's a step that goes towards some kind of compromise. It's a banana thing. It's a huge shame. Here, the chairman of the other day spoke to the Foreign Affairs Commission, where twice, Ognjen sat there, twice his, people named him... I don't know what to do with him in his life, this is a lame thing, that something big and then braked so come on. I don't know, I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19400	Thank you. Before we move forward, in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure, in the course of the session, limit the debate to five minutes. The word has Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19401	Thank you very much. So, it is not, in some way, a reference to what Mr. Magazinović and Mr. Škaljić said, I am sure that Mr. Magazinović also thought that it was a lame thing to do as we do... but this POSP is an obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is the only parliamentary body that this Agreement provides. And, look, it's a violation of the Stabilisation Agreement, it's a very serious thing, it can be, I don't even know what it's already been yet, although you have in this material several very serious letters about what can happen, so sanctions can even be financial, processes can be stopped as something we did at the IMF, I don't even know now to see what it could all be. It's not right, but I'm not going in. When Mr. Škaljić said this, so I tried and tried with my colleagues from the European Parliament to call a meeting without the Rules of Procedure, just to meet after a year, so it was not possible to accept, they did not want to accept, I cannot work without the Rules of Procedure and that is it. So, if you knew we tried that too, here's what your colleague was saying, give it to me without the Rules of Procedure, so I don't say now what I'm responsible for, it doesn't make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19402	Thank you. Representative Saša Magazinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19403	The stenogram is doing, maybe I misrepresented myself, so just that, so it sucks, stupid, politically immature is what we do, and the CAP as a POP is extremely important, after all, it is the first time that we are somewhere equal with the European Union Parliament. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19404	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19405	Well, you see, as the debate is going on, it seems to me that I know less, that is, the problem is becoming more complex, so we've now entered the sphere and possible sanctions, which makes this issue more dramatic, which makes it a more dramatic way to decide on them. I really do, at this point, if there is such a possibility, as you say, of different types of sanctions, and even that go up to, I don't know, problems with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, or its application, then at this point, I really can't plead on this without getting any more information on this matter. I am most truthfully speaking, when I looked at this initiative before the session, it seemed logical to me, now after this debate I am quite confused and I have to be honest that I am not in the situation right now to vote on these conclusions, I am talking about myself, and because of this it may not be a bad, bad suggestion that we give it, let's say, to the Constitutional Commission or I don't even know what Parliament is already deciding here, but to get some time to the next, to the next session can come up with some other knowledge that I really don't have at this point. And every one of my statements would be as if you threw away a dice and turned away. And I repeat, maybe I could have done it if you hadn't cut me with this, the possibility of sanctions, that already gives a special then weight to this taster pressure here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19406	Thank you. Representative Nermina Kapetanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Commission's report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's progress in 2016 has particularly initialled the fact that we have not reached agreement on the common text of the Rules of Procedure in... for Stabilisation and Association, and I consider it a national disgrace, therefore, throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree and support, and I fully appreciate the discussion of the esteemed Mr. Magazinović, we share exactly the same views. I think that, therefore, the point of everything is that part of the MPs don't want, part of the committee members don't want to understand that it's about recommendations that are not binding, that's one. Two, there is always fear of revote in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Three, and worst of all, I think we are the only country trying to get candidate status and be admitted to the European Union that sets its conditions for the European Union. That's impossible. In fact, Mr. Picula and all of the delegations on the European side have said that we cannot set our conditions for them, so they have also made compromises, as Mr. Lovrinović said in his discussion, they have made some shifts, here with 2/3, a certain compromise and good will on their part has shown themselves, but I think the Bosnian-Herzegovina side is very unserious that we, who are trying to gain candidate status, that we are setting the conditions for colleagues from the European Parliament. At the very least, we act like we take them into the European Union, not us. And I think we need to stop these practices and finally come to an agreement. 104 Whether the Constitutional Commission, if this ball were to be transferred to the Constitutional Commission, I don't know if it's the smartest thing, and there could be the same vote,...there's a part of the delegation. Will there be sanctions? It may be, but the basic message that we as Bosnian-Herzegovic parliamentarians give is that we are inconclusive negotiators, we are not taken seriously by people. And I don't think we should schedule a meeting with our European colleagues until the moment we adopt the Rules of Procedure and we don't agree on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19408	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19409	I should have left that to Mr. Bosić, but it's over now. So, to Mr. Novaković only, if it makes it easier for him, so I'm just thinking, because this is the agreement that we're breaking, you have the Implementation Council, the Implementation Board and five, six, seven, eight subcommittees, and now imagine that none of them are formed, this is what Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers knows, and if it doesn't form, so what happens? You're violating the agreement you signed, and in the agreement you signed, there's a subcommittee, a POST. So, nothing about me, I'm just suggesting that if people still had patience with us, they'd say that for a year and a half, except the letters they write to us, we didn't do anything. So it's an article 7 that, behold, someone can't take over some kind of back, I don't know, some obligation to vote on the Rules of Procedure by which the House's commission works when it does its regular work. So it all got mixed up. Maybe it was our fault that we put the same people in the delegation and the commission, I don't know, here's what might have been a mistake. If you will, I have also suggested to the committee, if you would suggest such a conclusion to the House that this be returned to the plea... I don't know, in some procedure... The constitutional commission to go through or not know what you need, I don't have it again, and it's another concession to come to a solution, but to end it in the next session, so to end it. I don't mind, I don't mind that you're gonna bring this down for me now, and then we're just getting into trouble, because... behind that, Dom. So, I don't mind, I'll accept your conclusion, formulate whatever you want, I suggested it yesterday, yesterday at the Committee, and I couldn't do it... So, to go back to the College, that the College should have, uh, entrusted it to the Constitutional Law and not to us, because we could if we could have agreed. Or give it up then form another delegation so maybe she'll make a deal, we may not know how to make a deal, what I know. Do you understand me, so make such a conclusion, as far as I'm concerned, here, I'll accept it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I understand, but I don't really understand this anymore. I have to say, I don't understand this anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19411	Thank you. MP Mladen Bosić, deputy chairman of the debate. Here you go. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19412	Here, I would, I understand the importance of this point and I support and what opened the debate here and I think we all have a good desire to resolve it once, because it's a rock around the neck that needs to be resolved. I wouldn't want this initiative to go to waste by voting right now because we don't have enough information, I suggest we find a way to decide this at the next session because I have a feeling it would be worth it and there's a chance to find an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19413	Thank you very much. Mr Lovrinović, do you agree as a proponent that Parliament now declares that this point, for the consultation offered by Mr Bosić as a possibility, is delayed for the next session? Do you agree to vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19414	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19415	Say it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19416	Roger that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19417	Thank you very much. So I'm putting on Mr. Bosić's proposal to discuss this and plead at the next session, to take the time to see what can be done to resolve this issue. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 27 votes for, without against, five abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. This will be discussed at the next session of the House of Representatives. We're going to the 13th agenda, that's Ad. 13. Information on the activities of the BiH Market Surveillance Agency, materials of the Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, issue: 03/3-50-14-9-12-3/17, since 12.06.2017 The Joint Commission for Economic Reform and Development presented to the College of the House on 1606th 2017 a presentation of the Agency for Market Control of BiH's activities, with a proposal to discuss it at the House's session. At the 51st session held on 04.07.2017, the House College decided to place the above presentation on the agenda of this session. The BiH Market Oversight Agency provided information on the state of affairs in the field of market surveillance for non-food products in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2016. 106 You see, therefore, this is, in my opinion too, no less important and more important points of the agenda, but here is a very important thing, and here the Commission has asked for the possibility of presentation, as the Council of Ministers presented to Parliament. We couldn't make that decision without, uh, whether the Commission remains at it or if there is someone to present this state to us now on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19419	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19420	Yes, the deputy director is here. Here, I'm opening a debate, I was going to suggest something, but I'm giving up, I'm opening a debate. Representative Đorđo Krčmar, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19421	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. We're staying, so, with this motion for presentation, what you've just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19422	Okay. Thank you very much. I suggest, then, that we move this forward for the next session, that the next session be held within the agenda, so that it should be prepared, and that this point should also be presented in the same way as it was today with the Council of Ministers' Work Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes to, 1 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. We have adopted, therefore, this proposal to be the point of the agenda of the next session and to make it, uh, not to submit information, but to present information by those who are authorised to do so on this Information. Moving to point 14, that's Ad. 14. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the reasons for not signing the Treaty on the Transport Community of South-Eastern Europe – Proposer of the point: Member Sadik Ahemtović, Act No: 01-50-1-15-50/17, of 26.07.2017. I'm opening a debate. Representative Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19424	Well, here, I've been listening to this previous debate, so all these previous discussions, in this country, there's always something holding back. The reason why I asked is a confusing situation when it comes to this 107 non-signature, who is blocking this Agreement and what are the reasons, given the very harmful consequences that it, its non-signature has, since the condition of Bosnia and Herzegovina is to prevent the withdrawal of funds for four projects which, one part and the construction of Corridor 5c. We had different information in the public and I think that at least as MPs we need to know, that we can answer when someone asks us what the problem is, because most of the things that happen in this country, which Parliament and MPs should know, we don't generally know or read from different media, which are basically divided into Bosnia and Herzegovina and each one writes in its own way, and in this way creates the wrong picture. When we add that European Commissioner Johanes Han sent very, very strongly for diplomacy, I would say, a letter, uh, then even more space to find out today who is really slowing down or who is holding back the signing of this Agreement. Because we had different information that it was the Government of Republika Srpska, did not give consent without the Republika Srpska ministers voting for it, and then there was some vote, at least that's how it was in public, somewhere in the evening, so Republika Srpska's MPs agreed, these... gave consent, but did not give the HDZ ministers. There was also information that it was due to intervention and cooperation or what has been working since this last meeting in Mostar Milorad Dodik and Dragan Čović. So it's, in my opinion, a very serious, important agreement and there's a logic to getting to know us at least about the basics of why this isn't signed and why we're the only country in the region that hasn't put its signature on... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19425	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to get to know this esteemed House that the Transport and Communications Commission at the last session has reached the conclusion that the Ministry is asking for information on this issue with all the positive and negative effects that are causing this Agreement to be signed. So, we've kind of given the ministry a mission already, of course, we couldn't get answers because we did it about 6-7 days ago on the Commission, but I want Dom to know, therefore, that we've already done it on the Commission. And since I have already answered the word I have here, so also the Agreement and the Treaty on the Establishment and Rules, Annex I and Annex II, and the position of the Government of Republika Srpska, etc., etc., but something special is confusing me and I would pray before we get this clarification requested by counterpart Ahmetović to resolve this clarification. In this letter Mr. Han sent to President Zvizdić, I will read – Having all this in mind I would like to clarify that the Commission's support for all four projects will continue as soon as the issues of... fiscal space are resolved, including the adoption of the Excise Act, and when Bosnia and Herzegovina sign the Transport Community Treaty. Then we expect a solution to the question raised by the Brcko District regarding the "Luke Brcko" project. Time is of great importance. If we do not see a solution to these issues by the end of September you will understand that we will have to implement these funds on projects in neighbouring countries. So far, it has been said to the public that the key problem is not to sign the Transport Community Agreement. This letter also contains an additional 108 problems, meaning the issues of Brcko and what is particularly significant, the question of the Excise Act, i.e. the adoption of excise duties which have not been supported twice in this House. I'd like to see if there's something that happened after this letter, if it's possible that it's only agreed to be an agreement, the signature of the Transport Community Agreement, then there's progress in the bar in public. As far as I could read, it was in conversation with the Republika Srpska government, that attitudes were approximated and that a solution was expected these days. Here, therefore, if we're already getting information from the Minstar Council to get this part of the letter Mr. Han sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19427	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I haven't been to this session of the Committee spoken of by the chairman, Mr. Novaković, and I didn't mean to discuss it because I wasn't, but these things he said are a good thing for me to say. Namely, first of all, I would like Mr Ahmetović to say what that information is, I ask him to say here where he heard this information about this signature and about it, to get up here and say that he and he said there, or that it was signed, not like this. I'd like to ask him again, repeat, to say what information that is. So, if that's how we hear it. And on the other hand, I've been on several sessions of different kinds, so, when it comes to the southeast of Europe and all these activities that are being conducted, and also about this Transport Community, therefore, the most heard from the media, and one of the colleagues was still talking about it today. I just see, and I don't want much talk about it, so lately, Mr. Zvizdić's talk about the project, so some of the actors of the executive and legislative authorities, were talking about the so-called project. The Western Balkans, and we don't really know what that means. I don't know, I know everything I know from the media. I've been to some sessions where, and some have spoken to me, even some MPs, here's no matter which parliament, asked to talk to me on the subject as club president, and then I asked him, and some asked him, so, is that a substitute for a European path, is that an alternative? What's that? So, just some of our... some of our institutions are talking, having conversations about various stories of the southeast or the Western Balkans, and we don't really know what this is about. I mean, I can know, I can pretend here right now that I know a lot more than I'm talking about here right now, but I'm talking officially... Recently, I was at a conference down in Montenegro where a colleague from Montenegro stands up and says – if that is, then, we do not agree to that kind of community, but every time we do, Europeans will seek for themselves. So, if it is a matter of regulating the criteria for the whole region and if it is a substitution for our European pathway and if it is a binding of one another on a European path, no one gives us any answers. Only someone came in from some meetings on the fiscal community, about the monetary community, about the tax community, about the customs community, about the traffic community, so what are you doing, who authorized someone to build some new community. I don't know what this is about, I don't know what's signed and what's unsigned. That's why I'd like to wait for this information, I guess it'll be visible from those materials, and it'd finally be time for someone to inform us at that next session about what's going on, so what's going on here. Is that the legacy of the Berlin process, is that what it is, is that what our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina say. So, don't let us know from the media, we're Parliament, let's see if it's a real substrate for some story 109 that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be alone..., is that, what our position is..., who agrees, what are the obligations, is that formalized, is that just... formalized. They all represent it as some kind of tempting, something that is an alternative, something that will sort out this space that will become tempting, here, and Europe. I don't know. So let's have someone inform us about it. I would like to, therefore, this is certainly information as Mr Sadik has addressed, so let's do it next time, and if we get this information at Parliament's session to prepare this one piece of information about what this story is, the Western Balkans or the southeast of Europe, what it is, who it is, where it is,... that meeting of the prime minister and to see what the powers are doing, by constitutional basis, etc.? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19429	Thank you. Representative Sadik Ahmetović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19430	Well, I've been looking for information from my colleague Lovrinović, I'd tell you if I knew, uh, all that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19431	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19432	But I'm telling you what, so I've said so that I've read about different media, and you know that the evening paper, some kind of medium in Sarajevo, and, I don't know, in Banja Luka, it's quite different in this country. So, I don't want to, I don't want to get into speculation but they're screaming it, what I said. That's why it's important that we have information about who's braked it, so I said, so in this country every day, someone's holding something back, in principle, that the state isn't making any progress. So that's why, so let's not speculate on someone coming out of the Council of Ministers, I've been listening to the president's statements, and the foreign minister, and the minister of traffic, so we don't get into a situation like that, to speculate. I think we have the right as MPs to know at least part of what's public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19433	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19434	So, I agree, and you've seen what I've discussed. And so, did you just quote us one medium now or did you quote everything you read and it all says what you said?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19435	110 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19436	Well, each other, then you should've listed what they said differently. One said, you should have said it was this, and the other said that Mr. Dodik and Mr. Bosić spoke, so the third said Mr., I don't know, Dodik and Bakir Izetbegović. Well, I mean, you could have read us all the media, so let's see, because we're definitely just doing today what the media said. It's in us... Thank you very much. I don't need any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19437	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my colleague Ahmetović for initiating this agenda point in the first place, because it is obvious that we do not have enough information about what the Transport Community is, or what its powers are, or what it covers, etc. There are many vague questions, among other things, whether this Transport Community covers all kinds of traffic. It seems to me that the draft of this contract on the establishment of the Transport Community of December 2016 does not cover air and pipeline traffic, and we know what pipeline traffic and air traffic means for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, it is obvious that we need information, but quality information, because we do not want to listen to and read from the media about what is happening and it is about the price they will pay at the end of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens, because someone has already mentioned that this is a condition for imposing excise duties. And if you look at strategic commitment, that is, the strategy we adopted, you will see that the adoption of an additional Excise Act is planned, i.e. the excise section of the railway development tax. Therefore, this concerns the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it should concern us as well. Therefore, I certainly join those who feel that we should have official written information on this issue. Of course, there are many questions, whether the ministry has an analysis worth the benefits and shortcomings of joining the Western Balkans Transport Community. Is this not really the entry of European transport companies into the areas of the Balkans and is it not the conquest of the market in a cheap way, in a way that we also pay for the reconstruction of all transport routes, including primarily railways and that they pay citizens through excises all these costs and repay these loans we are promised, and that ultimately we lose the market. Then it looks like we're working for someone else. If we don't know how to do this, then we need to make it clear that we don't know. Then, how much funding is needed to restore and improve rail infrastructure in order to reach EU standards. It seems nobody knows, but here's the money, we'll be in debt for as long as it takes, and then eventually the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will pay the price. So I support, strongly support, to conclude today that the Council of Ministers delivers to Parliament information on what it actually means, and all these answers that we have talked about....
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19439	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Give me a proposal for that conclusion, Mr. Mehmedović, to make a proposal for a conclusion, should be in writing. That's Mr. Ahemtović's obligation, but here's 111 You've highlighted the proposal, so make a suggestion. So I need to be able to vote on something. There's nothing to vote on. Correction of the wrong allegation, Mr Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19440	We have the Council of Ministers chairman here, we have ministers, we have people, let them come out and say it. I mean, there could be oral information here,...a few sentences say. I do not understand, therefore, what kind of a relationship the Council of Ministers has with Parliament is, therefore, on an important issue. The whole Bosnia story, all the media, writes to us by the European Commissioner, I'm looking for a five-word bar, we, so I'm not asking for it for myself. If we're going to ignore such important things in this country I don't know what, what's the point of, uh, this session of ours. That the MP can't ask the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers to sit, keep quiet and won't tell him... a sentence. I don't understand. So, probably, uh, you have some legal-business, uh, answer, but, here, so I accept and not respond, but that's the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19441	Thank you. So here it writes in the information material of the Council of Ministers on the reasons for not signing the Agreement, the Treaty on the Transport Community of Southeast Europe. Here is the chairman of the Council of Ministers who can state, uh, the position, I don't mind, but I think we'd better get written information. It is an important matter and we act in the way that Mr Mehmedović has suggested, but if you insist, and the chairman wishes, I give him my word, no problem, so it is not. Mr. Zvizdić, if you'd like to have a seat, you have a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19442	Thank you, Chairman. There are no problems, of course, to give short information, and we will prepare more information on behalf of both the Council of Ministers and deliver it either to Parliament or to an honourable representative. Here are the two questions I'm going to briefly tax according to the facts answer to each other. The first question is the Transport Community Treaty and the current situation concerning the signing, or non-signing of the Transport Community Treaty. The procedure for preparing the Transport Community Treaty in front of Bosnia and Herzegovina began in 2009. In 2009, the basics of such an Agreement, i.e. the Treaty, were established. Such basics of the Agreement and the Treaty with key input data and text were adopted by the BiH presidency in 2010. Since then, six Western Balkan countries have brought the Treaty into line with the European Union, which has not undergone major changes. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Council of Ministers, Minister Jusko initialled the Transport Community Treaty in February. From then until about a month before Trieste, therefore, we did not receive any special requests, remarks, or suggestions based on which there should be drastic changes to the Treaty itself. For the first time on the Council of Ministers of the Treaty was three or four weeks, I no longer remember, before the summit itself in Trieste, and the second time practically a few weeks before the summit in Trieste. Both the first and second times for the Transport Community Treaty at regular Council meetings, 112 ministers did not have the votes of ministers who came from Republi8ke srpski for the simple reason that at that moment we had one very interesting, strange, as far as I'm concerned, of course, extremely unserious, unargumented and provoking position that we received from the government of Republika Srpska, which is that this Treaty should be signed when Bosnia and Herzegovina becomes a member of the European Union, which, of course, is completely meaningless and does not matter, does not correspond with the real situation. But that stance remained present until the moment we went to Trieste and, I repeat, we had the votes of ministers coming from Republika Srpska or, here, to say the Minister of the Alliance for Change, which we could not adopt by consensus of the Transport Community Treaty. When, of course, there was a story about it, and when obviously everyone realized the consequences of the negative that Bosnia and Herzegovina can have with regard to Trst, then we got a position, it was a new position, and there were three positions in three days, the Government of Republika Srpska that they condition amendments to the Transport Community Treaty which, therefore, was already initialled by other countries and by the European Union. And it's quite logical that such a contract can't be changed in the last 24 hours. Of course, we continued to talk and to explain, I repeat, the negative consequences that we can have, especially from the point of view of the fact that we have worked extremely hard to prepare the projects for Trieste, so we have really tried, not only the Council of Ministers, but also other levels of government, our projects that we have run have been declared the most serious and mature and of the six projects that have been received by the Western Balakan region, four projects have been awarded to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we explained all of this and then, of course, at the last minute was the information that Republika Srpska gave up on these conditions. That's why at the last minute, we tried on the way, let's say, emergency phone sessions to try to reach a consensus so that something like that could be signed. Of course, there remains, unfortunately, another condition which is not related to the Transport Community Treaty, but is a condition we cannot agree to, or here I say, Minister Jusko, etc., as all other ministers cannot agree and I really want to say very clearly that we will never agree to it, and that is a requirement for the State Minister in State Affairs to rotate international affairs with entity ministers. So, we have not agreed to such a thing regardless of the projects, the money, etc., as much money as it is that we have to respect the Constitution and the laws we have committed ourselves to and still, of course, until that condition is withdrawn or until it is redefined we cannot agree to accept such a condition and of course we have a situation with the Transport Community as we have. We all agree that the traffic ministers should have good co-operation, discuss projects, try to find the most important priorities for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but in international contracts and affairs Bosnia and Herzegovina now and can always represent only the state minister. That's the reason and that's the story of the Transport Community. This second story, mentioned by Mr Lovrinović, therefore there is no discussion of any Western Balkan community that would be a substitution of our path to the European Union, is also very clear in Trieste. So there were different ideas about the customs union, etc., such a thing, of course, was never never agreed, nor did anyone officially propose it, nor was it officially discussed, no one took any obligation and nothing was signed anywhere. We discussed the following thing – to improve relations in the region, we can call it South East Europe, I agree, and I call it South East Europe, but everyone in Europe calls it the Western Balkans, so the Berlin Initiative and the Fund are related to the Western Balkans and the intention of the Berlin Initiative is to connect the Western Balkans infrastructureally first, and then the Western Balkans with Europe. But the conversation was to advance what CEFTA allows us, Protocol 5, Protocol 6, to remove invisible customs barriers, that our beer trucks don't have to stand at the border for four or five days or with some animal products, etc. So, to improve our trade relations, to remove invisible customs barriers, to be able to recognise reference laboratories, to form associations of chambers of commerce due to third markets, etc., etc., and to connect traffic quality more closely in terms of the flow of goods, people, after capital, etc. The whole story was about this, with a very clear definition that such processes will not affect individual aspirations and the speed of access to each of the countries of Southeast Europe, or the Western Balkans of the European Union. And that's all there was in Trieste. What we're hoping for, here's to say to the Council of Ministers, we're really ready to accept the Transport Community Treaty, I think we all need to give up the maximum goals. I have said this many times before, the coordination mechanism that we have talked about today, has not and will never be a substitution for the constitutions, nor for the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has been designated for quite other purposes, such as the purpose of making answers to the questionnaire, not for the purposes of the Transport Community. As the Council of Ministers, we agree to co-operation to set together the most important priorities for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we can never agree to a rotation. It seems clear to me now to all of us and that we are very, very close to that, here to say in the coming days or weeks, let's accept this Treaty and thus get the assumption that they can be operational means for projects. And just two more sentences, this thing that's about excises. So, of course, it is not clear to those representing the European Union that they can give 46m euros in the funds of their taxpayers without us wanting to have any concession in the realisation of these projects. It's not clear to them, and that's why it says clearly in the letter. If we can come up with another model, and I've said more than once in public appearances that I've heard about different variations from the entity level, even though nobody's ever explained one to me, there's no problem, then they don't need excises if we have another model of how we're going to finance road construction. And of all these projects, they're not all about excises. So, Bosnia and Herzegovina currently has over 450 million KMs that are not tied to excise duties, and come from international financial institutions, are not subject to excise duties, can be put into road construction, I am talking about obligations at entity level, and of these projects two are linked to excise duties, because such an agreement with the EBRD is. And that's basically all the talk about these two topics. About these specific things that the distinguished representative Mehmedović mentioned, we will, of course, prepare one detailed information. There are protocols, annexes, all kinds of traffic, we... adapt to European Union standards. It is even envisaged there if we feel that we are unable to adapt to European Union standards so that we can literally break the contract unilaterally and say we do not want to be part of the Transport Community anymore because we do not have the capacity to adapt our railways and roads to the situation we have in the region and in Europe. On the other hand, Europe offers a quality grant of funds, credit means that our railways can be linked to the entire region, the European Union, our roads, waterways such as Luka Brcko, which binds to the Danube initiative, etc. So we're not conditioned to anything. If we are able to follow the standards ok, they will help us financially, professionally and technically, if we are not, we will make such a decision and say – at this point take us away, we are unable to make standards, we will wait for the next five years. But I think we're in a position to do this thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19443	Thank you very much. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19444	I thank the chairman. 114 The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić, twice now said in his statement that the strategy was not adopted because there were no votes of ministers from Republika Srpska. Was Mr. Adil Osmanović against it? And you see what this is all about. The constitution stipulates that a maximum of 1/3 members of the Council of Ministers can be, that a minimum 1/3 should be from Republika Srpska and since 10, the chairman of the Council of Ministers and nine ministers, then it is always four from Republika Srpska, and you remember Tarik Sadović, then after him, was always one Bošnjak in the Council of Ministers from Republika Srpska and now that is Adil Osmanović. And now here we have that identification of Republika Srpska's unity with the Serb people again. And I understand when Momčilo Novaković and Mladen Bosić do so, when they explain that Republika Srpska in this Joint Commission has five members instead of four of them, because it is one of those five, and I quote them, because it is one of those five Sadik Ahmetović. What you're saying is, as if he's not an equal citizen of Republika Srpska's unit, so there's a little bit different, so Republika Srpska can get five when he's one of those five. And we have the same thing here from Chairman Zvizdić. So he says, twice there were no votes from Republika Srpska ministers, and that's why I openly ask if Adil Osmanović was against it, and I'm sure he wasn't? But you are also simply identifying Republika Srpska with the Serbian people and it is very dangerous, because I say when Mladen Bosić and Momčilo Novaković do, come on, uh, I can't agree to it, but I can see where they are going, but I am interested in where you go with this, this, when the SDA agrees to it, whether it's about membership in the Joint Commission or Mr. Zvizdić's exposure, then I really wonder how far this symbiotic relationship of SDA and SDS goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19445	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19446	Of course not, of course, go ahead. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zvizdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19447	I really can't understand why you're doing this, Mr. Arnaut, but that's your business and your relationship. So I ask that the stenogram be drawn from my discussion, did I say Ministers from Republika Srpska, or Ministers from the Alliance for Change. So I'm completely rejecting with disgust and indignity all the findings that you've just said about this in this sense, because anyway, this wasn't a topic at all. The topic is Transport Community and the topic is an initiative submitted by Mr Sadik Ahmetović. So there's no need for you to really do this kind of thing, and I don't understand why you're doing this. Of course, we just realized that obsession with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but I think you need to relax that thing a little bit with yourself first.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19448	Thank you very much. Representative Željko Komšić, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19449	Well, it's not a correction, but it's a question. First of all, I have to say I'm very, very sorry that this contract wasn't signed. I think it was a terrible opportunity and I hope it will be settled by September until, so to speak, it's given a new deadline. But correct me if I am wrong, that something has not changed and that I have not sent, in this case when it comes to signing this 115 Treaty, because it is an act that does not end its life in the Council of Ministers, but still has a phase, it comes to Parliament, therefore, it is not about the final decision, you do not need it, you do not have one, one, one in the vote, because it is not about the final decision. When it comes to the final decision made by the Council of Ministers, then you have to respect this way of voting, one, one, one, one, plus most, and now you didn't have it. I can appreciate yours, as I say, I don't know what to call, trying to reach a consensus that everyone agrees, but formally-legal, you had every authority to sign if most ministers in the Council of Ministers voted for it. You didn't have to count people by ethnicity or nationality unless something changed and I don't know. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The law also regulates how the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers ends. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19452	Thank you. Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19453	Thank you very much. I'm not going to deal with this business mess because we have enough speakers today and all these sessions that we've had, but I'm going to try, here, because of maybe inaccessibility, to suggest conclusions, because of the stenograms, to make everyone understand. In fact, what the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers was talking about actually concerns the powers of the Regional Committee, i.e. the Governing Committee and the EU Committee, Article 24, First and Second Protocol relating to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is about, here, a request for the rotation of participants in the Management Board, but I propose a conclusion. To provide written information to the Council of Ministers on the Decision – the Treaty establishing the Transport Community of the Western Balkan countries, as well as to provide answers to the following questions. What areas of transport do they cover and which ones do they not? Is the adoption possible in a conflict with adopted strategic documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Does the Council of Ministers have an analysis that will show what are the advantages and what are the shortcomings of this contract? How many transport companies are ready to open the market? How much funding is needed to rebuild and improve the infrastructure in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Will this contract be ratified here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I suppose? Who and how are they gonna repay the loans? Thank you very much. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19454	You deliver that to us, we read all possible manuscripts. Representative Damir Arnaut, correction of the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19455	I thank the chairman. I'm also looking for a stenogram and I'm looking for a special tone record, uh, since the moment Mr. Zvizvić said there were no votes from Republika Srpska ministers, I wrote it down and then I started writing a replica. Then, while writing the replica, he said for the second time, there were no ministers, the votes of Republika Srpska ministers. I remind again, so it is the identification of Republika Srpska with, let's say, the Alliance for Change or the Serbian people, however, in any case it is left out by Mr Adil Osmanović, which reminds me of all this discussion about the Joint Commission and the story that, behold, five is justified because one of those five Sadik Ahmetović. Indeed, this is too much to hear in this House and it is necessary to stop identifying any entity with any people. We have relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court, we also have a Constitution of BiH that says who is elected from and which is also talking about the composition of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19456	What's this again? Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19457	Well, since we're going into this second phase of debate, then we're in a bit of a mood, we're playing, we're playing, so we're going to be back like this by about 11:00, 12 hours, so let me get involved, I'm not at all today. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I haven't been in a while, it is. Now I'm going to be a colleague in his style, is that what you're proposing to a fellowman to re-vote a nation? It's your style now. No, it's from Republika Srpska, it's from another people, it's from Republika Srpska, but it's one nation to vote. Is that your suggestion? Is it Mr. Komšić's proposal that we sign it regardless of the minister's position in Republika Srpska and fall on Parliament, and make it a big debauchery? Since we signed something that won't be ratified at Parliament, I guess we'd better not sign anything if we don't have a guarantee that it'll be ratified here at Parliament. Now, I'm doing this in my colleague's style, these are his structures, and I like these structures so much, right? My kolega Lovrinović, since you strongly advocated the defence of our Serbian interests here in Parliament, I expect your support and this, uh, question. So, I'd like to see if it's a suggestion that, I'm here, I really respect the chairman here, and here I'm going to say, I respect the chairman because he's making sure that something that's finished there gets support here in Parliament, because if it doesn't, we have more indignation. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19459	Thank you. Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, correction of the wrong allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19460	I thank you, Chairman. It's a little out of the ordinary, but I have to replicate my esteemed colleague, Novaković. kolega Novaković, first of all, I think you are incorrect to Mr. Damir Arnaut. I am convinced that Mr. Arnaut is against the vote of any nation. He proved that when he brought down the aprilski package in this Parliament that allowed it to, just revote in this Parliament. Also, I am sure that Mr. Arnaut advocates the interests of Republika Srpska much more than some of the past times have advocated some parties wearing the prefix "Serbian" because I will repeat, the interests of Republika Srpska at that time in 2005, when the aprilski package fell, was saved by Mr. Damir Arnanut. And we're extremely grateful to him for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19461	Thank you. Minister of Finance and Treasury at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19462	Hello, everyone, and thank you for the opportunity to turn around and just try to get rid of the fog that's really totally unnecessary. It seems that everyone has read, uh, what they say, various media, I will present the facts and about confirm what the Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Zvizdić said and that no one is angry, that we do not compete and say the short history of the problem and the way to the solution. Here's Mr. Jusko, so I think he'll confirm that, let's sum it up. So, at the 106nd session, held on 22.06, we skip that in 2009 and everything else, on 22.06.2017, the material was removed first from the Committee, and was then removed from the agenda on the proposal of the Ministers of the Alliance for Change, explaining that the Government of Republika Srpska's negative opinion was. That's a fact, so it wasn't a statement, it was taken down. At the 107th session, held on 06.07.2017, a colleague of Jusko again ran this material, meaning 06/07, and again it was the same request, with the indication that the Republika Srpska government would likely change, this, attitudes and the rest and, therefore, there was no statement. We inferred to the Ministry of Communications that, in the coming days, with the effort of all, he held talks with all interested and determined, uh, the passing of this document. So, on the 12th of July, you follow because I confirm that, on the 12th of July, there was a meeting in Trieste and all that was there was long worked on this whole thing and simply, the simple delegation that went to Trieste had no consent or a statement from the Council of Ministers about these things. And I think I'm, uh, passing it on correctly. There was an attempt to organise a phone session and there was no need for the general majority at that phone call, I am talking about both national and other. And it's a shame this job isn't done. But again, I say, out of respect for everyone in the Council of Ministers, an attempt to maintain that cohesion, regardless of what I think I will not replicate, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers regulates the way of work and decision-making, there is a quorum of nationality, unless there are representatives of a nation who cannot start a session and there is no quorum for holding meetings, according to the Rules of Procedure. Now, we've been through it with faith and effort, that the damage will be relativeized and that we will approach the Traffic Community. And all that was left were mere manipulations and 118 I'm going to use it, you won't take it as an abuse, because there was everything, that HDZ was against, that we voted against, and that's simply the faceless lies, you have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19463	Thank you. Correction of the wrong allegation, MP Željko Komšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19464	I don't really enjoy this kind of debate because I think it's infertile, but whenever you want, let's just push it to the end, I don't have a problem with that. I ask again if anything has changed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and here is his deputy, has something changed in the way of voting in the Council of Ministers? Shut up means approval, so it's not. When it comes to final decisions, correct me if I'm wrong, then you need a general majority, plus one B, H, S, right? Mr. Novaković, let me tell you something now, since you know the details, as I know them, how the two-round vote took place in the first vote, Mr. Zvizdić, correct me, the Serbian people's ministers were against it, right? They're not? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I beg your pardon? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19467	Not that you won't, but it can't. Here's what you're discussing, and don't engage in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19468	I agree, but I beg you, by appreciating an attempt to reach consensus, people don't introduce rules that don't exist in our laws. This is a political attempt to reach consensus, and here is a concrete pity that there was no signing of this Treaty, although you had most of the necessary for that in the Council of Ministers. That's one thing. And what do you think now, we didn't sign it, and now who's going to come? And to pass everything on to the Council of Ministers, this rotational representation system, do you think it will pass here in Parliament? I answer to you, Mr. Novakovic, your argument. This one of yours is pointless, and this one I'm answering to right now. That's why there are laws of men, to stick to them. We can't force the rules 119 past the law or even about such important things, or can we? If we're going that way, then you're going to get it right here in Parliament tomorrow. [[Employee is warned on time]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19469	Thank you very much, Mr. Komšić. Representative Damir Arnaut, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19470	Thank you. What Mr Komšić says, we will now push to the end, is whether, and who knows what we will push out, because the chairman of the Council of Ministers reports and says twice there were no votes of ministers from Republika Srpska, then Mr Bevad, who, I remind you, is one of the deputy chairmans of the Council of Ministers and he says, was not a general majority. Now, I'm telling you, the minister from Republika Srpska is four, if he stands what the chairman said, and if only their voices were missing, then there should have been a general majority. If there was no general majority, if what the vice-president is saying is true, then there were ministers from Republika Srpska, and ministers from the Federation who voted against. And now we have two members of the Council of Ministers, the chairman and deputy, and one says it fell because there were no votes from Republika Srpska ministers, and the other says that is because there was no general majority. Maybe it's best that they agree on why, uh, this happened. As for this alleged revote, some people, specifically counterpart Novaković, co-worker Pandurević, do not understand at all what is being said here. So, when I say that it bothers me that the chairman of the Council of Ministers shall identify the votes of one single entity with the votes of a nation, I do not speak of voting in general, nor have I made the argument that it should be voted or not. I'm just saying, if Adil Osmanović voted for it, then don't say it wasn't anyone from Republika Srpska, that there were no votes from Republika Srpska ministers, then say there were no votes from Serbian ministers, and I find that quite acceptable. Say there were no votes from the Alliance for Change, and that is quite acceptable to me, but what I absolutely do not accept is that the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is identifying votes from any entity with the votes of any people. It is absolutely unacceptable, and it is particularly unacceptable to happen after Mr. Novaković and Mr. Bosić do so on the subject of membership in the Joint Commission for Defence and Security where they say – so you know what, it is five, but you know that one of those five is Sadik Ahmetović, so that's not so much, and then we introduce this one principle that one entity is being identified with one people. And now I'm saying again, when Novaković and Bosić do, uh, we're kind of used to it, but when it starts, it starts to fit the SDA, then we really have a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19471	I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Recommendations from the conference "National Public Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina", held in Sarajevo on 13th and 14.06.2017, issue: 01/5-29-1341/17, since 21.07.2017. 120 The Transport and Communications Commission delivered the recommendation Kolegijum doma on 25 July 2017 from the conference "National Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina" held in Sarajevo on 13 and 14.06.2017 with a proposal to discuss them at today's House session. At its 54th session, held on 25.07.2017, the above material was decided to be placed on the agenda of this session. The Transport and Communications Commission adopted four conclusions and proposed their adoption to the House. The conclusions read as follows: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Public Broadcasting System Committee to provide the House with an amendment and addition to the Law on the Public Broadcasting System of BiH, which will provide temporary funding for public broadcasters over a year to establish a final solution for the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public TV system. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Interresor Working Group to analyse the application of the Law on the Public Television System of BiH to start working urgently. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up an action plan within 60 days to address the issue of funding of the BiH Public TV System, which includes financial assistance to settle the debt and obligations of BHRT. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives points to the importance and urgency of the need for the Federation of BiH Parliament to implement the process of appointing members of the Federation of BiH's Management Board. I'm opening a debate. Representative Nikola Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19473	I thank the chairman, I guess we still have a little bit of strength. So I suggest that this item of the agenda, i.e. all that is ahead of us, the material, be converted into information and that, I suggest the conclusion – point 15. Recommendations from the conference "National public radio-television services of Bosnia and Herzegovina", held on 13 and 14.06.2017, shall be taken into account as information. Why am I suggesting this? So this was happening at that same session that I was just saying, where I wasn't, well, uh, and there I just heard that I was praised by my colleague, so how come I wasn't there, and I'm so interested in this subject. And I did, and that's why maybe it was missing, maybe my mind would be better, so there would be no recommendations like this either, first of all, a recommendation that the Committee is under one, under three, that's already the conclusions that we've had since before in various sessions and never been implemented, and the question is, can we possibly put in charge of any other level of Parliament that it's making something that we want, and under two, so I have to explain why the Interresor Working Group didn't start working. Namely, the Council of Ministers finally chose here, is that, the Committee and appointed me president, that they didn't even ask me if I was going to be, but well, they chose me as president, and then I got 30 days of that decision officially that, when I actually ended the deadline that I had to finish everything, so on my intervention, finding out, that I was president, give me some decision, and let my colleagues see that we are you, how are we going to work? So it was not clear at all how the 121 Commission would do it because it was formed by the Council of Ministers and not by Parliament. We have our own stalking regimes, and I am a representative, so the president of that, the problem of bad decisions, not, therefore, is not done properly, the issue of the work infrastructure of that commission, in which way it will work, has not been resolved. And on my interventions something happened, we got, so after the time I was supposed to finish the job, just to start working, and there was already a call for thirty, it seems to me, the first meeting this month, to see how we're going to do and what we're going to do. The other one wasn't there because it wasn't up to us, so there was just a bullet somewhere, I don't know why. So, I propose, as I said, this conclusion is because this conference cannot in any way require this Parliament to resolve these issues in this way, and these conclusions have already been carried out mainly, and we have instructed you, I will remind you, and the laws in the procedure and some are preparing to make instructions and this will be discussed on this Committee, so that this will be more meaningful than we will make such recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19474	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19475	You see, we received on the Commission material that read just like this – Recommendations from the conference "National Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina", held on 13 and 14 July 2017. The Commission could consider this issue, accept it and thus end this story, but you received a document on these recommendations and you could see that recommendations refer to different levels of government, so some are for Parliament, some for the Council of Ministers, some, etc., etc. We are due to the seriousness of this whole story, and with the desire not to be accused as the Commission that we did not want to consider recommendations of such an important international conference, and it was important from the point of view of those who were present there, very seriously dealt with it. So we called the board of directors of the system, management of BHRT, etc., etc., and that's where we learned some things we didn't know until then. Let us say that the Committee of the Public System is not working and is unable to work because the Federation Parliament has not proposed a member of the Committee of the System, and that the Committee of the System is in complete blockade. That this same system committee is not able because of the blockade, that member that we've talked about here many times, the law that says they decide how to charge, collect taxes, that they can't meet, let alone decide. We have further learned that the Interresor Working Group, among other things, and here in Parliament, has had people in this Interresor Working Group, has not met once yet, and that's what we found out there. And based on all of that, we've formulated some conclusions, these are the four conclusions. The first, so, where we're looking... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let me explain, in which we are not asking, therefore, to pass a new law, but only to amend laws that define fees.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19477	Well, we had that law before. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19478	Well, we had, of course, so it fell apart. What is particularly problematic here and what we have tried to formulate is that the House of Representatives points to the importance and urgency of the Federation Parliament. So, we didn't give the order to the Federation Parliament, we know we can't, we don't propose that this Parliament does, because it can't, but we wanted to point out, we found a formula to point out the problem. I know we're not going to achieve anything by that, but, if anything, we've given this conclusion as far as we're concerned as the Commission, and I mean this Parliament, we owe this serious problem a lot of attention. We obviously won't solve it through these conclusions. That is, it is a little bit to explain how these conclusions came to be and how it could be found in the Commission's session in the first place.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19479	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19480	I thank the chairman. So, what Col. Novaković put forward by the Democratic Front Club absolutely considers and understands all the urgency in which the situation lies, but sometimes it seems to me that we are talking about the system as a concept, not as if people are working there. So every session has a cameraman present, journalists from the public TV system, if you asked them when they last had a hot meal, they probably don't remember, if we asked them when they received the last paycheck, they probably don't remember. I would therefore propose to the Proposer, i.e. whether, to the Commission, it is possible to state the deadline in these four conclusions. This first conclusion, which states the Commission to submit the draft draft, I would put there until the next session of the House of Representatives, and that it is quite enough time to prepare this draft which will be submitted to us for consideration, and also because we have exhausted this topic, we have all said what we have, in a situation where the Public TV system is in place to shut down, on its exhale, I believe that the article, point three, instead of 60 days by the Council of Ministers, would be expected to be delivered, to reduce to 30 days. I believe that there are enough 30 days for this to be prepared and delivered, and by doing so we would also show how much we understand this precisely as counterpart Novaković mentioned, all the urgency of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19481	Thank you. Representative Nikola Lovrinović, correcting the wrong allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19482	Well, in a way, therefore, colleagues Novaković and Mrs Maji, this, therefore, conference that was organised, whose material you discussed at the Committee at the time, spoke about radio TV services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in the crowd. That's one thing. The other thing, you're in all conclusions talking about the system. Is that why you wanted to unite me? I don't know, but there's nothing and nothing new is said to these recommendations that we haven't already brought to this House. That's why I suggest that this be accepted as information because there's a lot of 123 ambiguities. Mr. Novaković himself said that there was a mass of conclusions at that conference that was called – about services, and you're all talking about the system. So, now whether this applies to RTRS services, Federal, BHRT itself, was obviously the main theme of BHRT, as a service, not as a system. Now you've turned it all into a conclusion about the system, and now it's all there, and you've added more confusion to me than it has come from them. So I suggest that it be adopted as information, we have time again that, possibly on a proposal from the Commission, we add whatever conclusions you want and suggest which one, here, remains mostly a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19483	Thank you. Representative Momčilo Novaković, correction of the wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19484	I firmly promise not to sit in today's session anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19485	And you won't get a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19486	Since I don't have a chance anymore, right? So, let me just say to my colleague Maji, we've been thinking about this, but we can't hand-to-hand the TV system, the system board, when the system's working, and we don't know when the Federal Parliament is going to appoint a member of the Committee of the System. As long as he doesn't appoint him the System Board can't meet. We can write whenever we want deadlines, but the Federal Parliament until it appoints a member of the Committee of the System... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, he ran out of time five years ago, because he's not coming, and the new one hasn't been elected. So that's why we didn't set deadlines, impossible, no deadlines. I don't mind, colleague Lovrinović, that we accept this the way you say it, receive knowledge and that's it. As far as I'm concerned, this information was received to the knowledge, adopted conclusions, whatever we do, we're not going to solve this problem this way, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19488	Thank you. Representative Maja Gasal-Vražalica-Devil, misrepresentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19489	Why, then, have we not classified, or why is the Commission not, firstly, that the first conclusion, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion, is to provide complete information on the functioning or dysfunction of the Committee that you state? If he has been appointed and does not work, does not come, or does not, the term of office expires, so give us complete information as the highest 124 legislative body to be the first to deliver it until the next session, and then we will consider what further steps are. You may as Komsija know, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19490	I'm closing the debate. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the debate on all the points of today's agenda. The rest is to vote. The vote will be at 20:45. Please prepare to vote. We are going to vote on the agenda points of today's 50th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Parliamentary House of Representatives since 26 July 2017. We're voting on point 1. - The adoption of the 48th session of the House of Representatives. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 votes for, no votes against, no abstentions. I understand we've adopted the 48th session. We are now voting on the adoption of the 49th session of the House of Representatives. We are voting on the adoption of the minutes with the remarks of MP Nikola Lovrinović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 32 votes for, no objection, one abstention, enough entity majority. We also adopted the 49th session. We move to the point of the 3rd agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Transport on Roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Momčilo Novaković, Law No: 01-02-1374/17, since 30.05.2017 (second reading). We're voting on the adoption of the bill in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 32 votes for, no problem... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19494	With the conclusions contained in the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19495	Yes, we're voting on the report with the findings of the investigation committee. 26 votes for, no objection, six abstentions, enough entity majority. So, we adopted a report on the work of the Commission of Investigation with the findings of the Commission of Investigation. Moving to point 11. – Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Security and Security Agency of BiH – Proposer of the point: MP Aleksandra Pandurević, Act No: 01-50-1-15-50/17, of 26.07.2017. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Damir Arnaut The tekst of the zaključak is: The House will declare itself on this issue by making the first statement on the removal of a member of the Commission and then voting on the election of a new member of the Commission. If a member of the Commission is removed, the SBB proposes to elect an MP for a new member of the Commission, Prof. Dr. Mirsad Đonlagić. Prepare to vote on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19496	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19497	The debate is closed. 127
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19498	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19499	There's a vote going on, no more interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19500	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19501	And what do you want to know?
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19502	I say, so this is three steps, we vote first to separate shifts and appointments. Only if it is accepted can the vote be joined on the shift, and if a man is changed only then the vote on the appointment of Đonlagić is voted on. We need to be absolutely clear about this, the first step is to separate the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19503	So, please nice, you follow me what I do. So, you wrote the conclusion and the service copied your conclusion and I read it and I never said anything again. So we're voting on the text of Damir Arnaut's conclusion. And this was put under the Rules of Procedure by the service in the first place, and the conclusion is: "The House will plead on this issue by making the first statement on the removal of a member of the Commission, and then voting on the election of a new member of the Commission. If a member of the Commission is removed, the SBB proposes to elect an MP for a new member of the Commission, Prof. Dr. Mirsad Đonlagić. If this conclusion is adopted then Nikola Špirić's shift is voted on, and then votes for Mirsad Đonlagić. If the conclusion is rejected, then it will be voted on by Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. It's the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19504	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19505	Let me go, as you have a constant need, let me do my job, I think. I don't know what the real problem is, I mean I have to, here I've been putting up with it all day, but here I am to stay quiet still. Prepare to vote on the text of the Conclusion, which I have read, Damir Arnaut. 8 votes for, 23 votes against, 1 abstention. _________(?) 128 [[no microphone turned on]] At the request of the DF Club, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote, revote 7 votes for, 23 votes against, 2 abstentions. Conclusion... [[/excessive discussion.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19510	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19511	We'll put your conclusion on the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19512	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2017-07-26-0.u19513	So your conclusion to Mr. Lovrinović doesn't change the essence and... [[Common discussion]] Please, please be prepared to vote on the Commission's proposal for a conclusion on traffic and communication. It's written to me like this by the service. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 votes for, 11 against... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
