ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-7-2019, the minutes of its 1st session of Wednesday 17 July 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION The only item on today's agenda is the election of the President of the House, in accordance with Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, as amended by VEC A 9226-6-2017. Following the oath of the MPs, the provisional President calls on Members to elect the President of Parliament for the next day. Applicability shall not be admissible. The President's election does not precede a debate. The President of Parliament shall be elected by roll-call vote and by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. If no one reaches an absolute majority, the vote shall be repeated between the first two votes and the majority vote shall be elected. The votes are counted by three MPs, the two from the first and the third from the second to the second from the Parliamentary Group. The provisional President announces the result of the vote and calls on the President of the Parliament to take over immediately in the Chair. I would like to inform you that all the roll-call votes, starting with the election of the President of Parliament and then the Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries and the vote on the government's programme statements, will be held in the traditional way until the Members' electronic cards are adjusted. That is why we are asking for your understanding. Mr Konstantinos Tsouulas is proposed for the position of the President of the Parliament. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The vote on the election of the President of Parliament is roll-call. Every Member who listens to his name will be raised by his position and will clearly indicate his preference, i.e. the name of the nominated candidate as the candidate for membership or the declaration. The voters will each separately record the Members' preferences expressed in the special column on the list. It is advisable that in order not to make mistakes, the list will be translated slowly so that time is given for the precise note of each colleague's preference. Parliamentarians of Vassilis Joyakas and Lazaros Tsavdaridis from New Democracy and Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA are called on the list. I would like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u2	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis and Mr Georgios Koumoutsakos, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u4	I have the honour to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 7(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the President of this House is elected by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. If the absolute majority is not achieved, given that there are no other proposals, the only one is elected, that is Mr Constantine Tasoulas, with votes that will be announced as soon as the count is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote on the election of the President of the Parliament. A total of 298 Members voted. MEP Mr Constantine Tasoulas received 283 votes. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] ‘PARON’ were voted 15 MPs, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u6	Therefore, the President of the Greek Parliament is elected by Mr Constantine Tasoulas, whom I would ask him to rise to the Bureau and to understand the position of the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Konstantinos Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, before all and above all I thank the members of the Greek Revision Chamber of Greeks, the one resulting from the elections of 7 July, for the highly honorable and concedingly generous vote in favour of my candidate, a candidate who gave me the great discretion and responsibility for the presentation of the new Republic and Prime Minister Mitsotakis. But at the moment, I would like to express my own thanks, respect and gratitude to the citizens of my particular country, the Ioanninas, who have, for twenty years, been choosing me as their representative in the national Parliament with the New Democracy ballot in nine successive elections. But in what landscape and on what horizon, ladies and gentlemen, does the new separatist House of the 18th Period begin its work? Obviously we are far from the description of his homeland, an ideal description, in fact as Winston Churchill made it in his fascinating book "My Young Years": "I was a child of the Victorian era, when my country's position seemed to be firmly shaped, when its position in trade and in the sea was unbeatable and when the awareness of the greatness of our empire and our duty to maintain it was constantly increasing." The great picture for us is obviously different, except - I hope - from the realisation of the duty to consolidate with the duration of our country and our institutions. It is, of course, even more difficult, but also challengingly simple. In the years of the crisis, in economic terms, Greece went 25% back to its GDP, when the Eurozone went 25% ahead. That is why the common vision of our people, of our tired and reasonably sceptical people, is to achieve the advancement and a better and powerful Greece. This Greece is called upon by the three-sided state, as the Constitution provides, to pursue. In Greece, we, the representatives of the sovereign people, must build through the institutional armour of the Legislative Power. So we welcome to the Greek Parliament the Greek MPs, ladies and gentlemen, re-elected and first elected. And we welcome them or see them again in the adventure of public life, which they have chosen, but have chosen them. Public life... Here's what Panagiotis Kanellopoulos says, who in his rare spirit honoured this Chamber and jeweled it, for public life, by prescribing his book "History of Ancient Greece": "This historic essay I owed myself. I wanted and had to get to know the Ancient Greek a little better, and in particular the steps he took on the road..." notice this, "the steps he took on the road, where most of the arsenals are being set up. This is public life, politics. Helen is exactly the man who made man's life public. Before the Greek, not the mighty One, the absolute master of a country, was not public. Pharaoh was hidden," said Kanelopoulos. On this course we are not unique or unprecedented. We are historically a temporary part, and we are 'the hasty and infinite beings of the moment', of parliamentaryism in our country, which, from very early, even on European data, was introduced mainly after 1844. The preliminary description of the party phenomenon, or rather of the paradigms that preceded it, takes place in 1812, when the traveler Henry Holland, who is in Ioannina, was informed by Ioannis Velaras about the existence of three streams - not parties - in Greece: The merchants, the islanders and the Morales like the English, the Russians and the writings of the French, the popular layers and the clergy of Russia. It is worth recalling that Greece is one of the first countries in the world to establish the parliamentary system and the universal suffrage of males, then citizens, regardless of property. And this democratic parliamentary regime was vaccinated in the oldest and well established patronage socio-political system. Vaccineation thus gave birth to a special and equal mix of democracy and a customer system. That is why, when we speak and pursue the strong Greece, we are literally not asking for a return to normality, but for an attempt to achieve normality, without, of course, denying a historic project of territorial expansion and economic correction, which was carried out, despite the seven bankruptcies, the seven wars and the four civil wars. Parliament and representativeness, that is, what Alexander Spolos described as the supreme sample of the wisdom of people, the ultimum sapientiae, are not coming out of the crisis. On the contrary, they have suffered a huge blow mainly from the alienation of the people, but also from the tightening of the executive power. And if the speech of each newly elected President of the Parliament should stress that it will continue to be corrected and will obviously be extended to the multitude and important work of the House in its international relations, to the monitoring of the diplomatic claim of the two World Wars, to its educational mission, to the dissemination of our political history, to its television presence, to the valuable objectives of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic and to the celebration of the two centuries since 1821, and all this and all that with the help of its constituted staff, so much more to this time of our debt is to contribute to the eyes and consciousness of the citizens of the House to overthrow its image of defiance, with the aim of becoming the parliamentary pillar of the restoration of the country. A very difficult target, titanium I would say, but let's make sure it doesn't prove silencing! The work of Parliament, however, has a peculiarity. And I am not talking about its individual multitude of responsibilities, its extrovert, its visit, its useful technical programmes that are in progress and which we need to take care of and take care of to get even better. I am talking about its political situation, about its relationship with the political system and the abuses that this synonym is causing. So Parliament's work is not fundamentally quantitative, but qualitative. The government is seeking to improve growth rates. That's measurable. To improve the use of the Public Investment Programme. That's measurable. To reduce unemployment. That's measurable. However, the House will not be judged by the number of questions or questions which will be asked but by a deeper quality process in its operation and destination. That is why, in the House, there must be no uncompromising version of the harsh majority of Parliament! That is why we have to express, as far as we can, the concept of a free mandate for Members. That is why we have to observe good legislation in the legislative process, against pluralism and evil. That is why we are called upon to reject the improper, blind and obviously unfounded - when it is obviously unfounded and we know it - the conversion of parliamentary procedures into defamatory guillotins or the procedural extermination of political opponents. That is why it is worth exercising responsible and documented parliamentary control. That is why we cannot systematically commit to future Vultures. That is why we have to conclude, as an institutional reform, the constitutional review pending. If the government after the recent mandate of the Greek people is called on to make concrete improvements and reconstructs, the restoration of Parliament's authority is equally, if not, more urgent. We are called upon to operate freely and democratically, seriously and responsibly and I have to run the work of this House as President of all Parliament's wings - such as a consistent neo-democrat may well be - through the cooperation of the Vice-Presidents who will be elected later, to ensure that the meetings are conducted without hindrance, to ensure the free opinion and expression of Members and that the order is respected. At this point I must thank President Nikos Voutsi for the thorough, valuable and honest information he and his colleagues have given me. We are therefore called upon to be useful and fertile, not obviously by agreeing on everything, but by means of a political confrontation that is evolving in a fight of freedom. And to remember Dimitris Chacho. Tsatsos writes: “What does that mean opponents? The word expresses two equally important elements. Firstly, it means political and ideological. Secondly, it also means accepting the common procedure, the rules of the game. It means acceptance and recognition of the opponent. Since the relationship between the opponents has become an enemy, the opposition needed for the Republic remains, but the acceptance of the procedures, the rules of the game and, ultimately, the opponent. The confrontation of opponents deprives democracy. The conflict of enemies within its space is the beginning of the end". Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-five centuries ago a humble seller of copper asked Jupiter and Dionys at the Dodonian Mantle "in a bronze port", if he had to practice his profession, sell copper and bronze objects at the port. And someone named Solvent "performing Jupiter to Jupiter and Jupiter what happy and intensified woman I receive or others", that is to say, he asks the gods whether he will have happiness and whether he should choose for his wife Apparent or someone else. We see that people's needs and anguish are the same twenty-five centuries later, except that the solutions now lie from us rather than Jupiter. That is why we must abandon the primacy and exclusivity of policy technology, which is making the most of political marketing and resorting to the beginnings of politics, that is to say, politics, in practice, to work, to the result. In other words, we should also make the state's balance sheet a politically more heavy assumption than the budget. But that means that politics is becoming what few people today think it is and that it depends on the inspiration, devotion and conviction of all of us, and it is not a matter of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, nor even of the Constitution. I am at risk, ending my speech, to be considered naive or - worse - a hypocrite quoted dialogue on the value and substance of involvement in politics, between a father and a son, who curiously excitements me as when I first read him in my very young years: "Listen, Costa, you're not burned for this profession. I know you, you're characterized, you're intransigent, unsolved, whatever it takes to break your kidneys. That's not a accusation, Costa. On the contrary! I like you being like that, I admit you, that's exactly why. Either you compromise, you accept transactions, scams, hypocrisy, and you will no longer be Costas, or you will keep your rigidity, your beautiful rigidity, and you will fail. You've got, thank God, a profession, a good profession where you can work together and be humiliated, Costa, not to fall through your own eyes. Think about it even before you hand them your name, our name." To answer: "If you believe I thought of myself. I have never counted on myself, never have I reasoned with any professional success, neither the status quo, the good marriage, nor any of the things you seem to believe. If I'm going to get settled, get restored, you have to make a decision: I'll never be reasonable in this way. If I have ambition, she's looking forward to it elsewhere. He goes far beyond myself. What naivety, huh? I'm naive. I think that man's presence on earth is not justified by cultivating a limited personal happiness. We're each one human among the other people, you know that, you've had enough to prove it yourself. But each one develops in his own way, at his time, in the circumstances. Today, and for me, politics offers me this fate. I would like to dedicate myself to the people of my people. For them and through them I would like to vindicate my passage from this world. The issue between the father and the son was solved not by a new conversation either by the mother or by anyone else, but by the guy. For two months the son didn't leave Serres. Only once did he return to the first and see his father again. Some days later, Giorgos Karamanlis was dying. Often - trusts the President in his interlocutor - I had the feeling that my father died with this bitterness in the heart. He thought that one day or another, but of course, I would disobey the counsel he had given me. Often, too, throughout my life I read his words and each time I wondered whether it was not from the two of us who was right.” It is obvious that I believe that the son, the later Prime Minister and President of the Republic of Constantine Karamanlis was right. But, in order to understand this right and accept it again, we must each of us and each of us individually support it, taking into account the unparalleled honour that the Greek people have made to us by electing us. To say this differently and more quickly: Now that we've become what we admired, how many admire what we've become? It is up to us to achieve it. Good luck, good work, and good cooperation to everyone! [[Difficult applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u8	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that today at 13.00 hours the election of the Vice-Presidents, the Quaestors and the Secretaries of this House will take place. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-18-S1-commons.u9	The sitting is closed for Thursday 18 July 2019 at 13.00 hours on the subject of the House: the election of Vice-Presidents, Quaestors and Secretaries of the House, according to the special agenda to be distributed.
