ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate of the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday, March 4, 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 384/26-2-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Erections related to primary health care in Heraklion Prefecture and the extension of the Cardiopathy Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) to the University Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 390/26-2-2019 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Foila, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Without ending the deadlock with the family doctor." 3. The question by No 375/20-2-2019 that was raised by MP II of the Democratic Integration Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Involvement of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 391/26-2-2019 by MP Trikala of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Skrekas to the Minister of Finance on the subject: ‘Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of being charged with a VAT charge’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 382/26-2-2019 topical question by MP Serres of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Michael Jeleigh, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased infractions in Serres Law and the Serres Police Department." 3. The 385 26-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Independence Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Annextic police - High crime in the municipalities of western Athens". 4. The Question No 380/25-2-2019 by Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of National Defence, on the risk analysis report for 2019 of FRONTEX showing that migration pressure remains high at the external borders of the European Union." 5. The 349/11-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Health, regarding the radio medicine. 6. The 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the "providing the real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD)". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 350/11-2-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos and Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)’. 8. The 351/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the supreme building required by the lenders of fifty of the public buildings in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 9. The 328/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman I Athens of New Democracy Mr Kikilia to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Crisis of the Supreme Leader in the Armed Forces (ED)". 10. The question raised by Mr Leonida Gregorakos, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, Minister for Health, on the subject of delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to a lack of medical personnel. 11. The 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Health, about the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN). 12. The 329/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of the Bran Branch of Hospital / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama”. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 322/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman Larisa of Democratic Incorporation Mr Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Recalculations of chemical treatments'. 14. Observed. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 2932/31-10-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School" of Saint Varvaras from the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, let me inform you of the timely questions on which there is the letter from the Secretary of Government, which will not be discussed. The first, with number 383/26-2-2019, top-stage question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Regressive fees for large hydroelectric power stations", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question under number 388/26-2-2019 of the first cycle of the Congressman of Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and disruption," will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment. The first, with number 389/26-2-2019, topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussia to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a post as Professor of Shirotrophy - Apiculture at Democritus University of Thrace", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister. The fourth under No 279/15-1-2019 topical question by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of Parliament, on the subject of "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The reason is that a question has been discussed with the same content as the same Member of the Republican Association, Mr Kegeroglou. Of course, I remember that Mr. Kegeroglu insists. This is the third time, and at some point, even if it has been discussed, the Minister must come. As I have already said, there is a letter from the Secretary of Government about the absence of the Ministers, and I would like to remind you that at the moment we are all Members of Parliament, and I am sure that we know it, that in Rule 66(5) the speakers - whether they are ministers or Members - are addressed exclusively to Parliament and never to Members of Parliament. They are addressed from their position to the President and from Step to the House and never to the public in the gallery. I say this because yesterday there was a violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Petropoulou, who addressed students in the gallery. I will not answer the substance, because there is a strong representative, because the President-in-Office is forbidden to do so. However, I would like to ask all of us to observe the Rules of Procedure. It also has other articles relating to the disciplinary penalties which the President-in-Office is required to impose on anyone violating Article 66(5). We begin with the second debate under number 357/13-2-2019 on a topical question by MP MEP I of the Union of Central Banks Mr Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Delay in the restoration of inequalities to professional farmers/owners of photovoltaic stations". Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have come here to discuss an injustice which the government has recognised by the mouth and by Mr Stathakis, but also by the mouth of Mr Skourletis' predecessor. According to Law 4254/2014, electricity sales prices to the professional farmers owners of PV power plants decreased by 12%. This reduction was imposed horizontally, but without, Minister, taking into account critical parameters such as connection time and construction costs. As a result of this horizontal non-measured material reduction, the coefficient of return on the invested funds was to be drastically differentiated compared to other producers and thus to reduce to the detriment of those built in 2011-2013 and for the benefit of those built in the years 2011-2012 and for the benefit of those built in 2013. In addition, the horizontal reduction is contrary to the objective of the law which, in its explanatory statement, was the viability of the RES account by reducing the contractually agreed prices, but on the basis of the objective and reasonable parameters, which are mainly linked to construction costs in such a way as to be fair separation. The only ones who were wronged by this law were the professional farmers, the owners of photovoltaic stations. I'm not going to go into evidence. You know it. I will not speak of your statements. You've done them. And I will not say if you have accepted this injustice. You've accepted it. You therefore ask, Mr Minister: do you intend to implement the interventions announced in order to restore equal treatment for farmers? Do you intend to justify the purpose of applying the horizontal reduction instead of the calibrated one referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the Act? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Members of the New Democracy Theocharis Theocharis and Ioannis Plakatakis request a short-day absence leave abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Saridis, as you know, the account of renewable energy sources is financed by three main sources: ETUCAR, which is paid by consumers, the supplier charge, which was imposed on our own government and which was trying to balance the budget deficit, and CO2 emissions, which are attributed to this account. The previous government had created a system with renewable energy sources, which produced huge deficits, and when we say huge, we mean that in 2014, which became the new deal, the deficit was running at 600 million a year. So, what did the new deal do? The prices received by producers in previous years were based on a formula, as you said right. The formula was based and based, because it calculates how the photovoltaic value changes each year and takes other factors. So he did the new deal with a horizontal cut and not by parametering, as you suggested. And in some categories, possibly based on this new deal and horizontal cut, the performance of these activities was affected. We would like to balance out a huge budget deficit in renewable energy with the intention of not additionally burdening consumers with an increase in EMFF. We did this with the end-supplier. We made a management of the progressive deficit write-down account and reached 2018 to have a surplus in the account, which is very important. This surplus has allowed us, on the one hand, to clean up all the previous years, so it does not owe at all - OLAF a previous year, 2014, 2015, 2016 - and at the same time we have a surplus of 160 million this year, about 70 million of which has been agreed to be reserve so that no problem can arise in the future. At the same time, we have received the payment of the RES producers to be paid almost one year late, in some cases more and more. Now they're paid in ninety days, one or the other time. It can be a little over ninety, as foreseen by the law. So we brought a balance into the system. We abolished the supplier fee, which we imposed on energy suppliers so that we do not increase EMFF. We abolished this and abolished the special lignite ending. And we now have a surplus account with an important reserve, which ensures that the mechanism is completely balanced. So our efforts over the years - and that is why we have not touched the new deal at all - were to move on, to face up to the major problem and not to intervene at all in the new deal, as had been done in 2014. From there on, it is important that the entire RES system has changed. We are done with the guaranteed prices to the RES producers, we have introduced the institution of competitions. Therefore, from this point on, there are no guaranteed prices in the RES. We introduced the competitions with Law 4414/2016 with a huge positive impact. As you know, production prices in wind and photovoltaics have reached, on the basis of the last competitions, a price between EUR 60 and 70. I would remind you that the guaranteed prices in the past were EUR 250 to EUR 300. And the latest guaranteed prices in 2017 were EUR 100 for winds. We are therefore talking about a huge drop in prices by competitive procedures. Now the RES is also cost-effective, beyond their strong environmental impact. Therefore, my answer to your question is that now that preconditions have been created - we have a surplus EPA, we have abolished the charge of the supplier and the end of lignite, and we are given the opportunity to look more thoroughly and to correct micro- injustices that existed in the new deal - we are open to discussion. And we hope that soon we will be able to find a solution to the existing problems that created the new deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm really glad there's a surplus on the bill. From this surplus, in fact, to lift this injustice. In order not to leave the issue in general terms, I would remind you that on 28/10/2017 you replied to the corresponding question that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is considering the possibility of adopting an intervention to deal with the problem. You have accepted this today. And since this government's time is actually coming to an end, whether three months or six months, and because you have accepted that there is, in fact, an injustice for this part of our fellow citizens, it would be good if you became clearer, so to speak, what solution you will give to this problem and when exactly you will have that possibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor if you want to fill in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. The last picture I have is the attempt to make accurate calculations. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we do not want to redistribute resources between one and another category, that is to say, to reduce some. We have a better picture now of the cost of any minor corrections they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u10	Next is the third with number 369/18-2-201819, a topical question from the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Do not settle by PPC wind park over Marmarie Evia". Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. This particular issue, which has emerged with PPC's wind park and with the new landscape prepared by QUEST, has erupted very serious reactions, Minister. You know that well. All the residents of the Marble community react. There is a decision of the Marble local council that is negative in the installation of both PPC's wind park and the other wind parks planned, as well as there is a unanimous decision from the Karystos municipal council which agrees with the above, namely the non-installation of wind parks in the area. There are these decisions. I shall submit them for the Minutes, Mr Minister, because they have you, as far as I know, been sent to you. What is the problem with this wind park and in general with wind parks in the Marble Evia area? It is the following: PPC RENEWABLES S.A. has already started work to install wind park that includes five wind turbines on a slope, which is just above the Marble settlement and is in the same position as operating an old wind park. The new one shall be installed in its place. There have been considerable consequences, Minister, since the operation of the old wind park. There was huge noise pollution, because it was just above the settlement. In fact, a fin had been detached from the old wind turbines that operated and were launched at a distance of hundreds of metres and were not victims by chance. Of course, it has a very negative impact on the operation of the settlement and on other economic activities, and much more when it is planned to install a new park next to PPC's park by QUEST. From this point of view, then, it makes sense to concern people about the development of things. What they ask is for the establishment of PPC's new wind park to stop, not to settle any more parks in the area near the Marmari settlement, and of course they ask, through the intervention and the question we have put, for the design of the overall installation of wind parks which are adjacent to the settlements and for consideration to be given to environmental studies not only of the park, but also to accompanying projects, road construction, transport networks and substations. Near the settlement there is a substation that will connect exactly the networks with wind parks. The substation and it in turn poses dangers to the health of the residents, since they are close to the settlement. These two basic questions are raised by the people, and we are asking them by the timely question, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u13	As you know, this project is an old project. There are seventeen wind turbines of PPC's old cutting and technology. PPC well replaces them with a much smaller number - I think with six - new wind turbines in the same place. So PPC replaces the seventeen wind turbines with six. New wind turbines have almost zero, very low noise levels, compared to old wind turbines, which they replace. It's too low, according to all the data that new wind turbines have. So nothing is added to the area, but an old system, which existed before, is replaced by a new one with a much smaller number of wind turbines. In this case, the additional projects are there. The existing cables and the connection of this wind park to the network are used. It is therefore entirely compatible and fully legitimate, of course, because, as you know, the legislation on the installation of projects now has the specific landfill for the RES: It distinguishes the high-priority areas, which is this particular wider area. It has clear limitations of 8% of the area per municipality, a wind turbulence per acre and an increase, a change in this percentage would require the agreement of the municipal council, an increase, I repeat, beyond what the specific spatial planning provides. So this investment is completely legal. We encourage the repowering of old projects, i.e. the replacement of old wind parks with new ones, at the same point and with modern wind turbines. It's perfectly legal. He's got full authorisation, environmental and other. Now if I wanted to put it in the wider context, as you know today, RES is an important part of our energy potential. Approximately 29% of the energy produced in the country is from RES. The goal we set for 2030, based on the National Energy Plan that we submitted to the European Union, is to increase RES to 57% of energy production in the country in 2030. Therefore, the development of RES is an integral part of the national plan for energy and climate change. In this context, I think that additional measures are needed to ensure that there are guarantees. This is what the revision of the special space for RES, which has begun, which will deal with the distribution of RES to the space. This is supported by the institution of energy communities, a law that creates space for active participation by both citizens and local authorities in the production of clean energy and, of course, in the replacement of the institutional framework, as I said in the previous question, by competitive processes now, which have made the RES completely competitive with other sources of energy production, lignite and natural gas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u15	Indeed, Mr President, we cannot understand the logic of the government. What was the logic expressed by the Minister? Since there are what exists between the inhabitants of the Marble settlement, they continue to exist with the new park. Since there was the old and they had problems, they also continue to have new problems with the new installation, instead of trying to relieve, improve the quality of life of the local residents, not only with the new establishment, but also with the new park that is to establish the private company QUEST. So, it's an extra charge. Since the networks were passing over their heads, they could continue to pass. Since it was running a substation next to their homes, it would continue to work. This is absurd, Minister. From this point of view, there is clearly a difference in the priorities hierarchy in relation to the government. It is not absurd for the residents who are all reacting. It's not unreasonable for the Karystos municipal council that made a unanimous decision. There's a problem. Because, of course, you may say that there are laws, there are provisions that provide for a number of issues, but in the same country we live and reality is quite different. There is no respect for anything there and the provisions are cut and stitched to the measures of interest. We, Minister, are not demonising any sources of energy nor, on the other hand, expose any energy sources. But what do we say? What's the main thing? We say that in the particular socio-economic system in which we live, in the name of safeguarding profit, capitalist profitability, both the protection of human life and the protection of the environment are sacrificed. Because we live in this country, is there anarchy in the installation of wind parks, Minister? Of course, there's anarchy. Is there an overconcentration of wind parks in high-indicator areas? Sure. Is that what's having an impact? It has a very big impact, Minister. It affects not only quality of life, but we also have flooding phenomena. The issues of Kefalonia are confirmative of this. Floods have been due precisely to the formation of wind parks and the non-reservoir of the torrents. There are disasters of other productive activities that even productive activities keep the population in the regions. In livestock, agriculture and apiculture there are huge impacts on biodiversity and all this because of overconcentration. We are therefore saying that there cannot be a planned development that meets the needs, both for energy planning and for energy security, and for cheap electricity, for public families and for environmental protection. So what we are asking for, what people are demanding is that there be special care and legislation, even though it does not guarantee them, as far as the establishment next to settlements is concerned. It's just over their heads and because it's a slope, you understand very well that measures are completely different when they're over your head. There may be the distance that allows it, but it is just above the settlement. Secondly, should any installation not take into account the negative effects on other production activities? Why, then, destroy other productive activities? Such measurements, however, do not exist in any study of wind park installation. Should there not be a study of the management of water resources and the torrents to settle them? No study at all, so we have floods. Should there not be any issues relating to the protection of flora and fauna, and this not only for the wind parks I said before, but also for accompanying works, roadworks, transport projects and transport lines and substations? So we are once again raising this issue, Minister. We ask that the wind farm of PPC be withdrawn, we ask for the non-installation of a new park, for the old wind turbines to be dismantled from there and for there to be no new license for a park in the area located in the Marmari settlement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u17	There is too much concern that wind energy has such an impact on agriculture, livestock, apiculture and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u18	We didn't say about wind power, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you're an old parliamentarian. Don't make those mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u20	We've said how to install it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u21	Let the Minister answer. He was listening to you without getting a piece of shit! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u22	We are living in a very big transition in Europe. The fact that Germany would close its nuclear plants and produce this amount of energy from RES was unthinkable a few years ago. He did it in five years. Environmental and other considerations are now a well-known process. Next time you land in Vienna, you will see that as long as your eye in the capital is seen there is a forest of wind turbines, hundreds, thousands in an endless somewhere. What does that mean? It means that we no longer have fears of results, because it is a reality. The countries that want to make a quick transition to the RES have taken very long steps. Greece has a much more balanced development of RES. There are, of course, areas of high windfield, such as southern Evia, which has the second best windfield in Europe. That's well known. There is a development of wind parks there, with a care - I repeat - that there is a limit beyond which it cannot be overconcentrated. I would therefore say that it makes no sense to exaggerate fears. It is necessary for the special landfill to ensure that distances, the way of installation, in which areas and to what extent. I repeat that the coefficients remain given under existing legislation. The second is that the environmental studies of each windy activity and photovoltaic activity are also reflected. These projects are small projects. Don't think of anything else. The license, as you know, has been made by decentralized. This licence doesn't even come to the Ministry. We are talking about small projects, which I think are manageable. In my opinion, therefore, we must of course take into account all the comments made by the local government, which is the most competent one. We are, however, moving forward - step by step, without creating fears and additional barriers, to a transition that is desirable to all of us. There is no doubt that climate change is now a derivative of CO2. There is no doubt that in 2050 we should have zeroed CO2, so we should only produce RES and consume, transport and anything we use today with zero CO2 production. I would therefore say with one word that we are moving in this direction, and in this particular case I repeat that we are encouraging repowering, because it is a step forward in old technology with news that has much better performance and at the same time takes much less space than before and, of course, has a much smaller footprint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u23	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of thirty-six students and students and two attendants of the Drama Music Gymnasium. Congratulations on the work you're doing there. Your high school is well known. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Next, the third, with number 381/25-2-2019, is the timely question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Lada, amounting to EUR 1,289,618?" Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I had asked the relevant Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsi. I'm telling you, Minister. It was identified on 18 January, then on 25 January and 1 February the Minister declared a workload. After a week, he declared unresponsibility. What can I tell you? Minister, I don't know what to ask you. I did it on purpose. Do you know why? Because Mr Stathakis had answered me, when he was Minister, that the region has done absolutely nothing. The main question, however, is that when we ask the Minister of the Interior, it is the one who has to ask for information from the region and if the region does not give evidence, it does not say why, while he has announced that he is making a contract with the municipality, he has to say, as Mr Skourletis said on 28 February 2018, that the region is responsible for this reason. And you know why I'm telling you this? Not so much because I have been involved in this project, but because this project will stop the desertification of an entire region. And because I've experienced her while I was living in this area, she was someplace and she became an artificial lake. Then the whole world left and now there are some small peanuts left and some young people who could, through the process of the artificial lake of Ladon and the surroundings, use forces and stay there. For five years, however, - we have been going to the sixth year now - nothing can be done. I really thought - and I believe - that the House and the Minister responsible, Mr Haritsis, who is in charge, a political leader of the regions too, could force Mr Tatoulis. I understand Mr. Tatolis doesn't want to answer, because we don't support him in the elections. Okay, politically understandable is that, but it's been five years. That is why I do not know what I can expect from what your predecessors themselves have said to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I honestly cannot understand why you have gone through this procedure, if you did not have what to ask, or if you did not know what you were seeking with a specific question. Secondly, if you were to expose the region and the district manager, which, as you said, you did not support politically, I do not understand again why you came to present to the Greek Parliament a question and what your thinking is. I understand that a Member may wish to exercise his parliamentary duties in order to highlight the weaknesses of a significant project and how it should go ahead. Unless this is done for other reasons, which do not concern the Greek Parliament. Nevertheless, it is our duty to respond to this project in order to have a clear landscape, which says that you know very well that the responsibility for the implementation of this project lies with the Municipality of Gortynia and with the Peloponnese Region. And you are obviously aware of this because for your day, as you mentioned in your question, this work has been included. You also know that very well because this question you have tabled before and you have received your answers. The responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Development is to finance this project, which, as you rightly say in your question, the Public Investment Program in 2014, for your day. However, what emerges and makes sense to discuss is that, as shown by the result, a project in 2014 and 2019 has not been implemented. So you included a work that was not mature, despite the fact that in the technical bulletin it is said that there were studies and all that. From that point of view, in response to the municipality on this question it is stated that the region has undertaken to update the studies and to re-apply the permits. Accordingly, the region responds that the project study has been prepared by the Department of Technical Works of the Peloponnese Region, it has been sent to the Arcadia Forest Department, as well as to the Office of Modern Monuments, in order to give opinions and to subject the project to the standard environmental commitments. Both the technical bulletin and the replies, both from the municipality and the region, will be submitted to the Minutes in order to have all the material for reading. But what emerges is the sloppiness with which you, as State Secretary, were also dealing with the projects that are completed, without proper maturity, without the conditions being met, giving rise to a number of problematic situations. It is also a problem, I think, that this is also the approach, namely to put forward timely questions not to be answered, to open up the debate and to resolve issues, but to other purposes, which I personally do not have to deal with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u28	Minister, I don't know what to tell you. You're a member of the government, if I'm not mistaken. If Mr. Haritsis pleads irresponsibility as Minister of the Interior, he is responsible for all the government for saying that for three weeks he has a workload and the fourth does not come. It is an issue that needs to be raised. Secondly, you yourself mentioned that there is a study submitted to the Ministry of Development. It is perhaps the most important work, which has not only been a study, but has also been passed by the House and by all parties since 2010. I'll submit a document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And do you know who made the study update? Your current candidate for the Peloponnese Region, Mr Dedes, who was then a technical adviser to the region in PASOK. Yes, there's also material. If you want to look into it, ask Mr. Deede, who is your candidate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u29	"Bridge", that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u30	That was the Arta Bridge, I tell you to know! Do you know what's missing at this stage? Not the microcritical you or I can do about whether it existed. It is that a project that the relevant committee of Parliament has visited - all parties, including SYRIZA and the committee have asked for this work to be done, and indeed everyone knows it - which for four years has been updated by the region, by Mr Deede, has been integrated, updated again and again and cannot be completed. And you know what I want to say? That micro-party issues play a part in this. In other words, Mr Tatoulis says there is a contract between the municipality and the district, there is study and no one says there is, and your services say there is no study. There's a study submitted. Mr President, however, this study, which we have financed - and the Minister says that this money is there, but it may not have been ready for the study - for two different governments, for five consecutive years, with a regional mayor, with the same mayor, cannot be implemented. I only ask you this, Minister, why do the rest of the citizens know? Do you think it is worth not interfering with the Minister of the Interior, who is his responsibility, with the Peloponnese Region to ask, in any case, after he has joined without study, to count on me the responsibilities, or since this study is there, why is it not implemented, who is responsible? That's the big deal. The big thing is that I asked the question today, because if we don't understand that someone has to say something about it, someone imposing it, no work will be done. Five years, Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Stathakis, said that there was the study, that it cannot be done by the region, but no one is intervening. After all - to intervene in a way, to say that this procedure cannot go any further! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u31	Good. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u32	This government recognises the importance of this project, and that is why we have included it in the Public Investment Programme all these years. I will not fall into the temptation of a confrontation, I would say, an election or anything else you want to achieve, because I do not know what your real intentions are. The essential thing, however, is not what you describe. The essential thing is how you have ruled in previous years too. immovable projects included, committing funds, resulting in more than EUR 2 billion in the operational programmes of the ESRB, with zero appropriations at 31-12-2014, over EUR 200 million with zero appropriations at 23-1-2015, so that we receive EUR 6 billion overdrafts in the programmes and a sum that we should cover from the Public Investment Programme. It is an amount that exceeded the financial adjustment programme of the summer of 2015. This tactic, shortly before the elections, to incorporate projects not to serve citizens but for other reasons, has led to the situation that we received in 2015 and should have settled at all levels. But also for the 2014-2021 NSRF, there was an incomplete design, a problematic institutional framework: immature projects, without studies and zero programming. Instead of highlighting these problematic situations, there is an attempt here in an election press - I would say - position for Mr Haritsis, for the district managers, for the municipality, etc. If you think that the Minister has responsibility for it and for other responsibilities, then the first person to apologize should have been you rather than Mr Haritsis or that government, which has resolved all the problematic situations which we have inherited from your term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, on 28-2-2019: Criminal forensics on Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. (a) to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and (b) to former Foreign Minister Nikolao Kotzia. (a) Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Christos Spirtzi, (b) Minister of Finance Euklidis Tsakalotos and (c) former Minister of National Defence Panagiotis Kammenos. Criminal case law concerning the late Minister of National Defence Athanasios - Apostolos Tsochazopoulos. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 19 December 2018, Thursday 20 December 2018, Friday 21 December 2018, Monday 7 January 2019, Wednesday 9 January 2019, Thursday 10 January 2019, Friday 11 January 2019, Monday 14 January 2019, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u34	The minutes of Wednesday 19 December 2018, Thursday 20 December 2018, Friday 21 December 2018, Monday 7 January 2019, Wednesday 9 January 2019, Thursday 10 January 2019, Friday 11 January 2019 and Monday 14 January 2019 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-01-S1-commons.u35	With the agreement of the House at 11.03 p.m., the sitting for the next Monday, March 4, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
