ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and a good start will begin. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the State Budget for the financial year 2020’. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Thodoros Rousopoulos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before the 2020 budget, let me have a small statement in the last few months. From the day of its oath, to date, this government has not only fully respected its commitments - measured commitments and seriousness vis-à-vis all citizens - but also went further and further. I would remind you: the lifting of capital controls, development and tax laws, changes in insurance, regulations on red loans, forward interventions that have been made possible, because the current government has not only managed to fill the budget gap of EUR 396 000, which it inherited but also to create the required financial margin. This great qualitative change is firmly reflected in the economic climate. It is already felt by the citizens in their daily lives and recognised by our international partners. I can only remind you of Mrs Christine Lagard, the new President of the European Central Bank, who has marked Greece's progress, both in terms of finance and the front of growth, and for the first time in history the country's borrowing costs have fallen so low. Ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of a budget is always a difficult exercise, between the development dimension, social protection, budgetary commitments and, of course, in recent years, the country's constraints. The previous government had chosen a regime of overtaxation and conscious targeting of the middle class. He had chosen to cancel in the way of any prospect of development in order to capture the weak, poverty, unemployment and exclusion by keeping the hostages of a deadlock, as proved in practice, of political benefits. We are seeking a new dynamic balance of growth and advancement, effectively reducing the tax burden on households and businesses. We are thus strengthening the real economy and encouraging investment in creating new jobs. Who questions this truth on the market? We are reducing the overall tax burden, with emphasis, in particular, on alleviating the multitude of middle class and at the same time increasing the real costs in the critical areas of health, education, social security and defence. We are reducing the State's waste and, at the same time, ensuring the timely and effective use of development funds in the public investment programme, where anyone who knows how to read budgets and accounts in recent years will see that it has been completely devalued by the previous government. Less taxes, more jobs, reinforcement of incomes, opportunities for creation and advancement for all. That is what we have committed to election, that is what we are doing in serious and effective terms. Ladies and gentlemen, in the '70s American President Ronald Reagan invited the famous American economist Arthur Laffer to the White House and had a very interesting debate, which was reflected in the newspapers of the time. So, Reagan asked him, to what extent can he increase taxes? As much as you want, Mr President, he answered. Can I go to 60% and 70%? Of course you can go. And when people will stop paying, when they will no longer be able to pay, was the question to Laffer. And, of course, this gave birth to the Laffer curve, for which the economist became known, and which shows that from one point onwards the increase in taxation has become increasingly smaller incomes for the state. This is what SYRIZA did, constantly increasing taxes, ignoring the effects on the real economy, because the only thing that seemed to interest him was the excesses. As Mr Tsipras once said, surpluses which, if they did not hide ignorance of how a budget is being drafted seriously, can only be interpreted as a punitive disposition to the citizen and especially to the middle class. The example of the current government is different. With lower taxes, with a more effective state, with faith in the creative forces of the Greeks, with care for those in real need, we are building a new path of growth and advancement for all. At a difficult national juncture and at a difficult international juncture, with diverse challenges and threats, we create conditions so that Greece can look back at the future with confidence and optimism. The optimism arises from knowledge, self-confidence from experience and the historical example of our own party, whether we are talking about economy or about defending our national fairs, dynamically, seriously, responsibly and with respect for the real needs of our citizens. The 2020 budget introduces us into the third decade of the 21st century, hoping to give our people something that she has forgotten over recent years. That he can stand on his feet proud and equitable with the partners of the European Union and, above all, with the dignity he deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr Rousopoulos gave an excellent example of time. We proceed with Mr. Nikolaos Papapas from SYRIZA and pre-invoke the next four, Mr. Kegeroglou from the Change Movement, Mr. Marino from the Communist Party, Mr. Bouba from the Greek Solution and Mrs. Sakorafa from Mera25. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to ask, following Mr Rusopoulos in Stepma, Members of the government majority, not to pretend that we are in the programming phase. The time of truth has come and you have tabled a budget and the commitments I do not know you mean them. Unless you were committed to cutting the dividend from our three million fellow citizens, cutting the 13th pension, not limiting the advance tax, maintaining the solidarity levy. This grid of measures is currently being brought in. You have to understand that you are inviting yourself to solve an equation unsolved. For you are doomed, by the move made by Mr Mitsotakis to bring back the necessary surpluses to 3.5%, to be EUR 2 billion behind our 2020 plan. And that doesn't change anyway. It was a move that at first we were surprised, but then we understood that you were ready to do so, just to have the justification that you were after the fall in surpluses for a later period, to impose another type of measure. You have a policy course so far. Has he helped the economy what you've done? In the labour market alone in October we have lost a hundred and twenty - five thousand jobs. Will it help the middle class for which you are being cut and which we supposedly overtaxed, increases in PPC tariffs, or will increases in insurance contributions, which will be subject to 85% of the insured? The signs of your governance are not positive. Growth for the second quarter of the year was 1.3% and for the third quarter it went to 0.6%. You aim - you say - to 2.8% growth for 2020. No international organisation agrees with this assessment. And it came the day before yesterday to say - you may feel a little betrayed here, because you did all the papers in BSE - that it is probably unnecessarily the target for 2019 and to 'watch', there is an increase in investment of 8.8% and private consumption of 1.8%, which is also impracticable. But we didn't come here to compare your assumptions, where you might catch, you might not catch the targets. I note, and I note that you have tabled a budget, which will come out, though only if - although only if! - catch 800 million of public finances, 550 million from tax evasion, 2.8% growth and 2.5 billion euros from privatisations. Near that we also have deflation. This is a very negative sign for an economy that is struggling to emerge from the crisis, which is also experiencing a 7.7% reduction in industrial production in October compared with September. I am not talking about the credit extension, which is also slowing down. So the first signs are negative. And they are negative, because your policy cannot keep the country on the track of fair and sustainable development, as it had started. And I'm just going to get a little bit on development issues. You brought in a development law. Listen, listen, you brought him before you submitted your own development strategy. You think the state's role is just - it says - to take out mines in front of investors. No prioritisation, no planning, no choice of sectors, which have a multiplier effect on economic productivity and on overall growth and the development of large infrastructures and, of course, on the development of our economy in the development of new technologies. Close to them, "false" and great works. "Frozen" OAK, "frozen" the metro of Thessaloniki, frozen the Tower - Patras. Where's growth coming from? From tourism and building? He showed them the limits of this model. Of course, also tourism has its excellent course and construction has played its part. However, these two branches have proved that they cannot alone take the economy out of the crisis. And you don't seem to have learned any lessons. Really! It's impressive! It is absolutely impressive and what you have done and what you have done in relation to the banking system, which seems to be ready to go and reassure even at the expense of the economy, because the necessary improvement in the balance sheets of their banks and books comes without any provision for what is going to be done in the real economy. So you start, and you see, like all neoliberals, the world upside down. So there is no need for a return to the outdated growth model, to the model that has led us to bankruptcy. What is needed is a holistic development strategy, what is needed is more justice. Your budget increases injustices. Banks must serve the economy rather than the other way round. Public property must serve and ensure the public interest. This is why public control must remain in critical infrastructure. Current, natural gas, hydrocarbons research, deposits must remain in state control for reasons of social, development, national and energy security. You need to watch a little and what happens internationally. There are hundreds of examples, on the basis of which regional administrations, municipal administrations, attempt to restore public control to critical infrastructure. The private sector has demonstrated that it does not develop these networks sufficiently by ensuring the best for society. The best for society is the absolute and objective objective. There is no reason, therefore, to insist on these policies, which have basically failed. Ladies and gentlemen, true prosperity, sustainable prosperity, is a prosperity for all. And while events spoil the virtual reality of your government, as they have created some media, we promise you that progressive powers, political and social, will stand against the catastrophe that can come through your policy. You must understand, too, that the country has come out of the memoranda, that you do not bring memorial policies without external coercion, and we can assure you that neither the Left nor the progressive party will move on the memorandum tracks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u5	We've started very well. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly stressed that following the long-standing crisis, following stagnation and overtaxation, Greece needed a coherent plan with urgent priorities for the development and response of social injustices and inequalities, which have been widened in the past and which need to be addressed, a plan that will bring back to the focus of its human policy and quality of life, education, health, culture and creation. However, this presupposes a radical change from the policy pursued by Mr. Tsipras, which Mr. Mitsotakis promised beforehand, but then maintains the hard core of the policy of choices made by Mr. Tsipras and by SYRIZA and only skinally differentiated: High surpluses, excess and public property under foreign administration and management, overtaxation of low and middle incomes, philosophical treatment of weaknesses. The 2020 State Budget could well be signed by the Tsipra partners - Kammen and by their so-called left accountant. In 2015-2019 the surpluses removed 29 billion from the anemic Greek economy and in 2020 they will remove 7 billion more from a society that needs them to move. The state budget is socially unfair for two main reasons: Firstly, any tax reliefs are indifferent to the vast majority of citizens, since they are neutralized by the increases in basic social goods and the forthcoming increase in insurance contributions to low incomes. The second reason is that the ratio of indirect and direct taxes is deteriorating, which is more affected by low and medium-income incomes. I would remind you that 2014 was 1.15, on SYRIZA, up to 1.47, and now it's getting worse, at 1.50. In other words, about 63% of the taxes paid by a household are indirect - VAT, excise duties, contributions, etc. - unlike in all the Member States of the European Union. It reduces business tax, of course, and distributed profits, but completely unconnected with investment in modern technology and the creation of new jobs. The Change Movement, as a responsible force, does not only criticise. The "ELLADA" project has been prepared and, in this context, makes concrete proposals for a fair reduction in taxes and for this reduction to be linked to the relaunching of the economy, sustainable growth and the creation of new jobs. For example, I mention the reduction in all VAT rates by one unit, as a first step towards restoring social injustice against low and medium-income incomes. For the same reasons, immediate abolition of the special solidarity levy and the trade fee. Reduction of taxation by 150% for the extra wage costs of companies in creating full-time jobs, converting half-time into full-time jobs and the best wages. Direct depreciation of investments in technology and the treatment of an environmental crisis, strengthening and supporting new activities, particularly youth and female entrepreneurship, with full exemption from taxes and contributions in the first three years, and paying them by 50% for the following two. Increasing agricultural production through tax relief for farmers themselves. The 2020 budget shall be relentless in the development field. It has a low public investment programme of 6.7 billion, which needs change, targeting and of course needs decentralisation. Regional development has enormous potential for the growth of the country's GDP and must be brought back to priority on the basis of the identity of each region. This requires the brave decentralisation of resources, the regionalisation of the Public Investment Programme and all development and social funding. In Crete, for example, comparative advantages and prospects, the greatest deficit concerns infrastructure. The new international airport has entered the road to implementation, but after too much delay and unjustified many times. Urgent need is also a modern road system, which the Greek state has a duty to now finance for the island, since over the past few years, well or bad, priority has been given to the mainland. Since 2012, he has been running on the national network of Crete. And the government, unfortunately, announced that the BOAK cannot begin, in its view, before 2022. It continues, in other words time delay, the squeeze of time, as Mr Spirtz did. The necessary resources must now be committed to implement the project through a public-private partnership, but to the benefit of society and development and in synergy with tourism and agricultural production. Ladies and gentlemen, pension insurance is a major economic and social issue and the government has so far been hiding behind judicial decisions. Ensuring decent pensions and restoring injustices, at the same time as introducing fair contributions for young people and insured persons who will not drown them, requires the strengthening of the tripartite funding and the promotion of the pillar of occupational insurance. After the establishment of the National Fund for Social Solidarity from the use of hydrocarbons it is time to draw up the plan for the financing of the excess, since it of course changes its character and enters Greek administration, in order that some of the resources from the use of the property will strengthen the insurance system. The New Democracy, unfortunately, was the only change it deemed necessary for the superstate was to restore the golden rewards of presidents, directors, appointed by the tens of public enterprises that fall within it. Unlike SYRIZA and New Democracy for who best implements the pluralist policy of the bloody surpluses, in which neither people with disabilities fit, the Change Movement Moves against the reintroduction of the normal thirteenth pension as a prerequisite for restoring injustices, and of course the need for an integrated social policy that ensures social goods, a decent level of living for all, but at the same time ensures employment and reintegration with new jobs, quality jobs, new opportunities and new jobs. We are moving in this direction, and we think that the conditions really exist, but there is no desire in this direction, so that, with a policy change, we can achieve the potential of the country as well as the benefits of society and the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u7	Mr. George Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget report states that the risks of the changing international environment remain a threat to the global economy. But what the government records is the capitalist system that is marked by opposition and antagonisms of monopolistic interests and capitalist states, wars of crisis, poverty and refugee. This barbarity is managed by the New Democracy, SYRIZA and other urban parties. The internal and foreign policy, which is implemented in our country, serves the same objective: the capitalist development and the geostrategic upgrading of economic groups to extend their activities. This objective is also served by the budget, which adds new burdens to the people, in order to enhance the profitability of capital, as the JRC's rapporteurs themselves analysed. The characteristic feature of foreign policy is its deeper integration into NATO and the European Union, the integration of relations with the US, the involvement in their plans, which has led to the participation of our country in twenty imperialist missions. Our people are experiencing many problems and urban governments pay more than EUR 4 billion a year for naval needs. That's a challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey's Memorandum of Understanding with the so-called 'Imperial Government' is dangerous and opens new wounds. The neighbouring country's urban order escalates aggression diversely in the context of competition with the Greek and urban ranks of the states of the region, for the control of hydrocarbons, in an environment where natural gas, oil and energy pipelines draw powerful imperialist forces as a magnet in the region, forming a very dangerous situation. The Government of New Democracy continues SYRIZA's policy. But a culture of reassurance, the reassurance has no objective basis and can at any time get pedigree traits. Already abusive nationalism is cultivated, there is a growing reference to national homogeneity to entangle the people, to accept Greece's involvement in imperialist planning as a one-way path. The basis for reassurance is the expectation that Greece, as a obedient ally of NATO, the United States and the European Union, will enjoy their favor with regard to Naples Turkey. But this has collapsed miserably. These forces judge on the basis of their own interests. Mr Mitsotakis and Tsipras criticise Erdogan, but both of them have sat with him at NATO Summits and codecision to establish anti-people strike forces, modernise the nuclear arsenal and measures to strengthen competition with Russia and China. New Democracy and SYRIZA have given a lot to the Americans, the Souda bases, Larissa, Stefanovicio, Alexandroupolis and everything else they have requested. To make the account: Expect support but NATO says "cut off your neck, I do not interfere", preserves the unity of its southeast wing, does not recognize borders in the Aegean. The Americans have been intervening for years not to declare the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, to make compromises that even change border lines. The government's celebrations following the European Union summit and the Prime Minister's statements that we have strong allies are out of reality. They can't answer how we got here, how Turkish aggression is powered. The Americans and NATO whistle indifferently for Turkish drilling in the Cypriot EEZ, for violations in the Aegean Sea. Under their responsibility, the occupation in Cyprus has been maintained for forty-five years and is currently preparing a diplomatic solution. The Americans and NATO are whistling indifferently about Turkish drilling in the Cypriot EEZ for violations in the Aegean Sea. Under their responsibility, the occupation in Cyprus has been maintained for forty-five years and is currently preparing a diplomatic solution. The European Union's wishes have been heard before, but the situation has deteriorated. Strong imperialist countries are selling arms to Turkey, investing billions of euros, trying to put wedges in Russian-Turkish relations. Those who speak about isolation from Turkey will be blinded and disproved many times. What are our allies doing? They're haggling with Turkey. They work for the consideration of the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. Here too, there are a few options for appealing to the Court of Justice in The Hague. Ladies and gentlemen, the path of co-existence will complicate the situation even further, will exacerbate contradictions, because it is restoring sovereign rights and borders. No sharing between urban classes and imperialist centres is fair and leads to a solution in the interests of the peoples. Our people reject the false dilemma 'compatibility, collapsing or war'. There's a solution. The JRC's policy puts forward the people's needs for the people to live well, peacefully, to have in their hands the power and wealth they produce. We call on the workers to make this case their own. The policy of the Communist Party of Greece is against the imperialist wars and the causes that give birth to them. It seeks good neighbourliness and fights nationalism, supports non-change of borders and plays the role of extinguishing the US bases and releasing them from the imperialist organisations. The solution lies in the struggle for peoples and people's movements, in conflict with the people's ranks, NATO and the European Union, in order to develop mutually beneficial relations in our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u9	Me, too. Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget for another year. In the plan for the banks you named "HERAKLIS". Here you could give the name 'SYSTEM', because it will be one of the same. Not in the sense that you don't have good intentions. Your intentions may be good. It is a question of what objectives we will achieve. As you know, the budget is an expression of planning to see the revenue, expenditure and to cover the inflexible costs, but it must also have a geographical and anthropocentric character. Not to enter into reason that where the numbers prosper, people suffer, but that the numbers serve man. And what do I mean? I will also go with numbers, if you will, against the budget, which is distinguished from the ordinary budget and the investment budget, where it has a functional classification, both organic and economic. That is where we need to see how the allocation of funds is going, but we also need to give a vision of the budget, which may be at a certain time, as a business does, so that it can balance and meet its operational needs, but it must also lay some foundations in order to create the investment budget and specific funds to give a vision and hope for the next few years, that is to say, to become a milestone. You could make a proposal proposed by the Greek Solution, a special fund for youth entrepreneurship. What does that mean? A committee responsible can judge and rate and quantify specific innovative ideas and proposals of new entrepreneurs, depending on what business they want to do, what an innovative proposal they submit, but also in what area they want to be active in business. It is a good axis in order to keep the children here, not to be the panacea of the whole situation, that we give them 3,000 euros for a year, while I read today that four thousand scientists are not renewed their contract and many hospitals, like the Hospital of Serres, still remain without doctors' qualifications, because their contracts have not been renewed. The budget certainly needs to be harmonised and adapted to the new accounting environment with the new financial system. That's true. The ordinary budget is a different thing from the investment budget. There is, of course, a special reserve under Article 18, which enables the Ministry of Finance to have a reserve, provided that it does not exceed 3% of the ordinary budget and that expenditure is transferred. Consider, however, the mistakes made in previous years. They are the many actors involved in order to make a project. Today, a project to implement is involved in ten bodies. Why is that, ladies and gentlemen? Because they're changing codes. We're in the logic of changing codes. There is no specific body to carry out a project. I want to go to this special fund you say, for health, education, for military defence expenditure. How will the Greek citizen be taxed? What will be the level of taxation to cover this fund? SYRIZA's gentlemen have lost valuable ground - they may not have had time - from the corporate development plan on the road. Now the ESDP is changing over 2027. It invests in man, in green development and invests in energy. And I come to the part that you say will have a tax exemption from the turnover of the Greek citizen and will proceed to an energy restoration of the house. What's going on there, though? As far as construction materials, which will promote specific construction companies in the years to come, will require a change in the energy structure of buildings, such as hotel tourist facilities in Greece, to be in the European Union's standards as well as climate change, are not exempted from construction materials. You only exempt it from the turnover that is less. You obligate the Greek taxpayer to go to 30% of the electronic transaction, which is good to suppress tax evasion. But what's going on? Do you think the Greek has a consumer power? Don't see where the stores are full. All Greeks owe them. We are in a vicious globalised system - not only Greece, Greece is a piece of the puzzle - which suits you to owe it to him rather than expose it. The one that owes has a plunged head is hostage and a bond of the great globalised economic circles. This is the case with Greece in the years of the memoranda. You know, the family budget is a miniature of the state budget to the large family of Greece. So, there's father and mother, what is she supposed to do? To protect the child, to go to school, not to miss education, education, good nutrition. Or if there's some super-elves to protect him. That is what mother home does to the taxpayer. Where are the indicators of transparency and evaluation in recent years? Because the Greek wants to know where his money goes, how it's taxed and exactly how they're distributed. Now let's go to the 30% issue, and on the other hand, you want to hit the tax evasion. Have the boldness of taxing red oil in the ports. You see what happens with the so-called'red oil port'. Big tax evasion, because you didn't act as you should, the input-outs system. I am not only addressing the New Democracy because it is happening in recent years. I say it if we want to hit the tax evasion. The red tape's going well. Today we had twenty-nine taxes, and again twenty-nine taxes we have. We reduce taxation from 29% to 24%, reduce profits from 10% to 5%, but ask the small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, to pay 5% of the tax in advance. If that's possible! Today, you should know that a small-scale free trader, who is also the backbone of the economy, employs ten employees. If you gave him the guarantees and the motives for five more, he would. This will hit black, unsecured work. Right now what did we do? Yes, it is good for the New Democracy, because it was also racistly the young under twenty-five years old to be paid less than the other twenty-five years, but give the new entrepreneur also an incentive, create tax zones. It's anthropocentric and geography, every issue of the budget, so that the other one can go out and do a small- and medium-sized operation in a remote area, so you can give him a hand. The young man needs a hand in the beginning, in his first steps. If you don't give him this help, how is he gonna make it? On the issue of defensive spending. When the house door gets in, the housekeeper looks to shield her. I wish we had not had this need to shield the country, but we have it and I see that the funds are less than the previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, we must shield the country in terms of defence. And one last thing. You give 2,000 euros to every child to be born. Why, are you afraid to say it's for the Greek girls? Is that racist? What did ELSTAT say last year? There were eighty - six thousand births and a hundred twenty - thousand deaths. ELSTAT is controlled by the House. Look at the evidence. It's 2,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen, yes, for every Greek bird. Not to say that this money in the Cesarean industry won't be enough for a doctor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u11	One advice, you'll allow me. Because the microphones, after changing them, are very sensitive, we don't have to hit our hands because the reason doesn't sound. There's noise from the seat and there's no reason. Mrs Sakorafa, from Mera25, has the floor and we are eloquently closing the first circle of speakers. I'll tell you later how to keep going. Here you go, Mrs. Sacorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of each government is essentially its identity. This year's budget, however, has a very reassured notebook. It is the tenth Memorandum of Understanding precisely what has been voted on in all four Memorandums. Here I would ask that, on the one hand, the SYRIZA colleagues cease to suck off the story of exiting the memorials and, on the other hand, that the government cease to tell the story of the application allegedly its own policy. In these ten years, all governments have come to power with their flag to denounce the memorandums and to promise to implement another policy. The flag that, on the other day, the elections were being subordinated - and the same catastrophic policy was being applied - with all the social groups being opposite. In this way, unfortunately, our democracy has worked these critical times for our country. With multiple deceit and policy implementation in complete contrast to the popular feeling. The aim was specific, not just to convince the Greek people that there is no other policy option, but also to remove it from the choice of another policy, devouring and demonizing any different voice to cancel any hope. Today's debate therefore reflects this reality in the most deafening way. The new New Democracy Government, which is nothing new, is opposed to the reappearing SYRIZA government - is missing ANELs - the 'first time left', in a controversy without content. Apart from the frustration that this image may give rise to, it is also dangerous for the functioning of democracy, you will allow me to say. The two major parties, which hypothetically express different social interests for both old comrades, class interests, behave as follows: The New Democracy boasts that it promotes the social agenda, pressing on the ruins left by the fourth memorandum of SYRIZA and SYRIZA trying to convince us that if it had not lost the elections it would be a better New Democracy. But, beyond measrotragic, it is also insulting to the Greek people. It is a humiliation when, for example, SYRIZA denounces the New Democracy for aggressive privatisation through TEAD - it is true - which, however, he created, by releasing the entire public property of lenders for a hundred years. It is irresponsible, for example, when it votes against the crime plan 'HRAKLIS', which gives 12 billion to the corporations of the same bankers, who went bankrupt, such as Piraeus's 'INTRUM', Alpha' and Eurobank', while, yesterday, SYRIZA canceled the Katseli law, by allowing banks to sell red loans to corporations and by lawing the electronic auction. It is hypocrisy that the New Democracy should be forsaken today for contradictions and embarrassment in the handling of Greek-Turkish, which is right. The same person who yesterday had a three and a half hours private conversation of unknown content with Erdogan, the same one who allied with his friend "Bibi", Netanyahu, as you remember colleagues of SYRIZA, the state - a terrorist of the Middle East. When, finally, after giving up all the contracts for mining in New Democracy yesterday, he wonders whether he was wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, I could go on for a long time, but I do not have time. So let me, as a culmination of all what I want to say, remember a verse of Breech: “So the Old made its appearance, masked in New. But he brought the New chained with him to present it as a Old One." That is exactly what today's budget, which we are debating, reflects. The long-term service, by all governments, of a parasitic domestic oligarchy, which is at the same time responsible for the country's dissatisfaction, but also provocatively benefiting from this situation, through the implementation of the Memorandumary Policies. As much as packaging and names are different, the contents are the same. The people continue to winter and the few to get rich. Unfortunately, the excessive risk in this equation is the deleted risk to our national issues. Ladies and gentlemen, since I objected to the memoranda I supported my political stand in my deep faith that there is an alternative policy and that is feasible and effective at this juncture. I am very proud and grateful for the confidence shown by the Greek people at Mera25 to have a different voice in the Greek Parliament today, a different voice that actually cancels the attempt to suffocate any other political proposal apart from the proposal of extremist neoliberalism. Today's debate confirms our appreciation that there is a huge gap in expression of a policy that corresponds to the real social needs. This is what we want and we are committed to expressing honesty and consistently, trying at every opportunity to document that realistic disobedience is a political proposal that gives way to the present and real vision for tomorrow. It gives way to the present, for example, when it comes to the insecurity of lovitours in the backs of powerless borrowers proposed by the government, we propose the creation of the "bad bank", which will clear red loans, without any auctioning and no eviction and with a strong sense of security for each borrower that he will not lose his home or shop. It provides a way out for the moment, for example when we propose the abolition of the 100% payment of income tax, which mockerically became 95%, in exchange for the minimum tax on Internet Facebook, Google, Amazon, Netflix, etc., which naturally earns huge sums and in our country they do not leave a single euro. It is a political proposal, which gives way to the present and real vision of the future, when we say clearly and clearly 'no' to the mining that destroys the environment and are proven causes of conflict and danger to peace. It gives way to the present and future, when we talk about the green transition, the Green New Deal, calling for a radical reorientation of policies and actions, through the pan-European movement of Diem25. In the present and in the future, with the Progressive International, along with all those in the world who have the same struggles as us, such as Bernie Sanders, Naomi Klein, the Prime Minister of Iceland, Brian Ino and many others. Minister for Finance, the Secretary of Mera25 and former Minister of Finance will document our political position and with specific economic elements that confirm the impasse of the budget, although I am sure you are also very well aware of it. Our opposition, therefore, and the vote on the budget on our part, is not simply about the forecasts and figures of this budget, but about our perverse opposition to the substance of the policy applied. We're not just denouncing this policy. We submit to the Greek people a comprehensive, documented proposal to overthrow it and we will strive with all our forces to become his property, his confidence and his decision. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. If we continue with the same respect in time, I think that today - and I ask for your consent - there is no reason for the sitting to go beyond the tenth night. With a clipboard calculation that I have done and the times of the ministers, who will speak today, we can complete the first four cycles and part of the fifth cycle. So I don't think I need to, first of all, go beyond the tenth night. This afternoon there will be a reassessment and we see it. I'm just letting you know how to determine your time and business. I am now recognizing the first five speakers in the first cycle. It is Mr. Tsavdaridis from New Democracy, Mr. Igoumenides, Mr. Kontogiorgos, Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement and Mr. Vasilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. As soon as Mr Yoyakas is finished, then there are another six to close the first cycle, I will give the Minister of Foreign Affairs the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Treasury, who is the first Minister on the list that the government has sent today. Come on, Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only yesterday the SYRIZA general rapporteur described the 2020 budget as a deep ideological and neoliberal one. In fact, it considered it right to advise the Government that the only realistic prospect is fair growth without economic and social inequality, with the protection of wages, with a social state, by analogous taxation. All these beautiful words - I repeat - the rapporteur and former SYRIZA State Secretary for Finance, a SYRIZA who in the four and a half years of his administration closed the banks and brought the capital controls, imposed twenty-nine new taxes, reduced the tax, cut the pensions, torn down the EASA, condemned the widow's pensions, pissed off the heating oil, drowned in productive Greece, chased the healthy entrepreneurship, strangled the world of primary production, bound the country to excesses. And you come to do economic lessons in this government. A little shame doesn't hurt. The answer, however, to your lame narratives is given by the new government every day, by definitely implementing its programming commitments. This is a tangible act that is the brave permanent reduction of the ENPIA. It is a concrete act that is important to improve the framework for tax debt arrangements for citizens. It is a tangible act to simplify procedures for the protection of first residence. It is a concrete act to abolish the capital restrictions imposed in 2015. The tangible actions are the advance payment of an extended heating allowance, the exceptional aid to more than nine hundred thousand economically weak fellow citizens, the adoption of a pro-development tax bill, the resolution of the HARAKLIS project, which gives a definitive solution to the red loans of households and businesses. These few things for the economy were done in just a few months by New Democracy and we have SYRIZA "we had delusion", "we imposed it on us", "we didn't cause" to lie to us. Let it be. We come with this year's budget to ensure and increase the prospects in two key areas of our policy, on the one hand, the mobilisation of domestic and foreign investments and of healthy businesses that will boost economic prosperity and create new jobs, on the other hand, the protection of weaker economic classes by further reducing tax and insurance burdens. And we do that while covering the budgetary gap that the new government inherited from SYRIZA. Contrary to the reports of ideas and fantasies from the previous four years, the New Democracy brings about a realistic budget that achieves the primary surplus target by reducing the tax burden on natural persons and businesses, while at the same time reducing funding in no policy area. The 2020 budget does not eat the sky with the stars. But it finally provides for a clean sky without gravitational clouds. It is a budget that provides for an increase in GDP, for unemployment, for an increase in private consumption, for investments, for export growth, for debt reduction, for privatizations, for measures to support citizens, vulnerable social groups and businesses that touch the EUR 1.2 billion at governance level. Most of all, however, the 2020 budget provides for additional real health, education and social security expenditure, thus certifying the great importance that the government attaches to social policy. It also provides for increased expenditure on national defence, energy not symbolic, but consciously, in times of increased tension, especially with the eastern neighbour, which directly threatens our sovereign rights, an increase in expenditure that passes the message that we are determined to do what is necessary in favour of altars and focal points to every supervisor. But here, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a reference to a sector which has been left to its fate by SYRIZA in recent years. I am talking about the primary production sector that fiscal and insurance bleeding and the glaring of production costs by the previous government in combination with the effects of climate change, which have affected its productions, has led to dead ends. Especially the Imathia Law is the first county in Greece in the production of peach with more than 65% rural population, beyond the above-mentioned obstacles, there is also the growing chronic effects of the Russian trader and the US tariffs, which result in a vertical drop in prices, making the crops inconsistent. These huge obstacles, in combination with the abstention of ELGA, which, in the disasters of adverse weather phenomena, are too late to pay compensation, have caused the economic impoverishment of thousands of peach producers. It is therefore necessary for the new government to make the impressive difference in relation to the past. It is something that our farmers hope for, call it, call it, beg it, the government, on the one hand, to provide and proceed with the rapid payment of aid through de minimis to peaches, nectarines and collapsing, over the shame of the previous years where the sums given per acre did not even cover 20% of the actual losses, on the other hand, to give the ELGA financial instability so as to speed up the procedures for the payment of compensation for our peaches. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. This is a matter of survival, Ministers. Please and I'm sure you'll see it sensitively understanding the sense of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u15	We're going with our colleague from SYRIZA Mr. Nikolaos Igumenidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the debate on the budget as a debate where the ruthless language of the figures is added to the political dialogue to confirm or disprove what we are saying, in particular to reveal what you are not saying and to highlight the political orientation of the government's economic proposal. The previous Member of Parliament spoke of reports of ideas and fantasies from the previous four years. So let's see what you handed over to the left government and what's received from it. You handed over, gentlemen of the New Democracy, a country with the suite of the memorial to the bone. You receive a country free of new Memorandum obligations, you receive a country outside the memorandum. You have handed over, gentlemen of the New Democracy, empty funds that have embraced the lenders' strap to the neck suffocating. You were well-built with the job. For a second-month left-hand parentheses you were talking about at that time. You receive a country with 35 billion shields for the protection of the Greek economy from any pressure on international developments. You have handed over, gentlemen, a country with an obligation of 4%, 5% and 6%. You receive a country with a surplus of 3.5%. I don't know if any of you believe it, and if any of those of you who follow me in the Stepma, let's say that 6 percent is less than 3.5%. However, 3.5% for us is high. So you repeat, at the same time, an economic pillow of EUR 5 billion, so that you can proceed, if you were using it, to the requirement of a lower level of surpluses. In any case - I could say a lot - you receive a country with a balance of revenue and expenditure and you come talking about a reduction in taxation, speaking of a lesser state. This, in our view, requires a reduction in costs, which requires a reduction in benefits. I would like to say this: the fewer taxes, which you are employed and professed are the cheese in the light of the less social state. Where are you going to cut from? You refused to stand by the election. Avoid placing in the five-month period that passed. Uh, now the knot has arrived in the comb, the numbers reveal. I will not dwell on all aspects, but on two representative examples. Social State: The exhibitions of ideas and fantasies said by my colleague, New Democracy, which preceded me, are: “You have handed over a social state of EUR 1.5 billion, a social state - a breeder of Rusphoric covers of the “days”.” You receive a social state of EUR 3.5 billion, transparent, fair, sound, reliable and your first measure is to cut off EUR 369 million, is the first subject to bleeding from your budget. I will not dwell on work, I will not dwell on retirement and on the rest. Economy: You propose an excessive reduction in the purchases of goods and services for the public sector. This will lead to shortcomings and problems throughout the spectrum and functions of the public. That was an obligation imposed by our lenders, a Memorandum of Understanding, which we found before us with the first Memorandum and left it behind on 18 August. With the proposal you are making, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are essentially confirming that the phrase "if we did not have a troika, we had to find" is not a bizarre by your Vice President, it is your political choice to synchronise your economic stunt with the neo-liberal pitfall of our lenders. In any case, you are making these cuts in order to reduce taxes. What's the middle class winning? Who wins from cutting taxes? A lot could be said. The tax reduction from 28% to 24% relates to 2.5% of enterprises. Is that the majority? 40% of the benefit of this arrangement, which you are proposing, is for two-two businesses, 0.07% of the firms. Is that the majority? It also concerns companies that have a profit of more than EUR 7.5 million. Is that the middle class for you? The previous speaker also said that there is little shame in me. Is the New Democracy budget good or bad? Personally, I do not use these expressions in political dialogue, it is not a matter of good or bad. The budget you are proposing, picture and balance of your economic policy, is subordinate to your neoliberal idealism. It increases the wealth of the few and worsens the economic position of many. It therefore increases economic inequalities and therefore prevents growth. It is a budget with a class-based bias in favour of the few and against the many. In this sense, here is the heart of our disagreement, here is the reason why we will vote against your budget, beyond the specific figures as expressed here or there, because the left policy has a diverse social footprint, expresses a classic bias in favour of many, in favour of wider social powers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me to finish in a few seconds and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Let me just stand in the primary sector a little. And here you cut, nothing gets away with. You are cutting 50 million euros from the Ministry of Rural Development budget. However, my contact with my farmers creates - and that is why I would like to mention it from this step forward - the idea that, rather than your overall policy, however, not only in this part of the budget, you are favouring the primary sector, so that people are involved in the primary sector and that, in this sense, you are strengthening it. Dialogue of two people in my neighborhood, my neighbors, who have not understood me and do not deliberately speak of me: one says: "I see you tired, I have time to see you." He responds: "I do not stop, I am constantly in the morning until night in the field, dig, grease, water, weep, many farm jobs and others." The first one says: "Re, you, calmed down, agricultural work has a deadline, but not so strict working hours. Why are you from morning to night in the field?" "Because I can't stand watching any more on TV the good things Mitsotakis does for us," he answers. Greek, high head, left is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u17	Good. We shall now proceed with Mr Kontogeorgo from the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very much of the need and the temptation to answer the SYRIZA's current colleague with two questions. The first: why did he submit me to an unrealistic situation? The previous colleague claimed that five months ago we were handed over a country - an earthly paradise. And the simple question: First of all, do you believe what you say, Mr Colleague? And if you really believe them, you are not asked why the Greek people voted against you four times in a row, after you handed over a country - heaven? The other things you said you didn't even deserve me to comment on, except to say about your last line with which you addressed the Greek people "leave, high-headed, left is here", that of course, you represent his Left nothing, as a colleague of yours said in the past about four years ago. Now, also referring to the one who came from the Step before, Mr Papapas, a representative of the SYRIZA, who has given us a great deal of courage to come back to reality, I would like to point out to him that his word is now out of date. It forgets that SYRIZA's policy was condemned by universal elections four times, the Hoxha policy implemented by SYRIZA, the policy of overcrowding and taxes, the policy that led all Greeks to poverty and impoverishment. As he also spoke to us with a lot of courage to protect public property. Who? SYRIZA, who gave all of the public property for a hundred years to lenders. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you speak of a state guilty, a state-health scandal and a state-of-the-art projection field of your relatives. And I come to my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget under discussion of the State of the financial year 2020 is the first budget of the Government of the New Democracy which includes its election commitments to civil society, but also the hopes of the entire nation for a new start and better days for all. Despite the fact that the international economy shows signs of slowing down - if not stagnation - and despite the political liquidity prevailing in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the Greek economy is expected to move at twice the growth rate of the Eurozone average and achieve its objectives. The new Greek government has been able to regain the country's lost credibility and inspire a climate of confidence both inside and on international markets. The fact is that Greek bonds have recovered their real value and solvency and enjoy low interest rates for the first time in our history. The international rating agencies - one close to each other - enhance the credibility and prospects of the Greek economy. The interest in investment is constantly growing and it is a matter of time to manifest itself, in combination with the Government's reform effort and the reconstruction of the state, which will no longer be a brake on every investment effort. The forecast for the 2020 budget for economic development is significantly increased in relation to the stability programme. Expected to 2.8%. It is absolutely realistic and it will be twice as much as the average of the euro area. With the main lever of the reform of the income tax of natural and legal persons, a climate of confidence and stability has been established recently with a positive impact on all the main economic sizes of the Greek economy. The reduction of HPAI by 22% for all Greeks, the introduction of a low rate of taxation to 9% for employees and pensioners, free professionals, natural persons and farmers, the reduction of taxation in collaborative agricultural schemes to 10%, the increase in duty rate of 1 million euros for each protected child, the exemption of AIFs from the solidarity levy for more than 80%, the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% in infant species, the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% in children's seats and the helmets of cyclists and motorcycles will increase the available income for citizens and the demand in the economy. The budgetary measures announced by the government in conjunction with the budgets of public spending and privatisation will contribute effectively to the growth of GDP. The new development law, the reduction of the tax rate from 28% to 24% of small and large enterprises, the reduction in the first phase of the advance payment of income tax, the exemption from income tax and the contribution to solidarity of corporate bonds quoted on the stock markets, the reduction of the tax rate from 10% to 5% of dividends, the introduction of a clear framework of tax revenues in Greece, the alternative way of taxing foreign source income incomes create the necessary environment for distributing investment for creating healthy jobs, the reduction of unemployment at least 1.8% provided for in the budget, the growth of the economy, and the increase in the state's revenues, for exercising the real social policy rather than mirrors in natives that SYRIZA was due to. The suspension of the real estate tax, the suspension of the VAT 24% imposed by SYRIZA on building permits from 1-1-2006 for a three-year period, the granting of a 40% tax deduction for energy and aesthetic upgrading costs of buildings enables a key branch of the national economy of constructions with a great contribution to GDP, which suffered a huge downturn in the years of the crisis. Incentives to workers by enterprises, energy policy by strengthening RES, the tax union of social costs of enterprises effectively strengthen the Government's efforts to protect the environment from climate change and sustainable development. The fight against tax evasion and tax evasion, the new insurance law to be voted on in January, the increase in electronic transactions from 20% to 30% of real costs will increase private consumption in combination with the expected increase in investment and the rationalisation of public investment, so that all economic indicators are close to pre-crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Constitutional Review, which ensures political stability in the country in four years' time, the reduction of bureaucracy by using the new technologies to simplify and codify the country's institutional framework, the acceleration of privatization and the liberalisation of the economy by state-run government, equally integrate our country into the international and European environment as a modern country that guarantees equal opportunities for its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as trying to distort the policy of the New Democracy Government, it cannot really close its eyes. None of us claim that we have solved all the problems. But what we can certainly say is that we put the water on the groove and people see it, feel it in their everyday lives and applaud it. Finally, in addressing the government's worthy financial staff, I would like to remind him that the mountain and isolated areas of our country expect special and increased care of the state both in terms of increased public investment programmes and in terms of private investment aid. And to avoid misunderstanding, for example, my special homeland Evrytania contributes to the national economy with its rich natural resources from which the capital of Greece is "watered" and not just produces 10% of clean energy in Greece. After that, I am voting for the State of 2020 budget. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, today we are discussing the 2020 budget, a budget that reveals and covers the mines left behind by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. This is because as far as the primary surplus is concerned, the budgetary objective remains high at 3% of GDP by 2022. Here too, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not respect the election commitments to negotiate with lenders and reduce the primary surpluses so that the country's economy can regain normality and social liquidity. Your high, ladies and gentlemen, primary surpluses serve and continue your predecessors' commitments and policies. You have forgotten that the 2015 surpluses have removed from the country's economy from EUR 22 billion over the period 2015-2018 and you are exceeding that by 2020 they will further remove EUR 14 billion. In conclusion, this is a'mystical' policy implemented by SYRIZA and you are following it today. You exaggerate any productive activity and any form of property. You are once again exaggerating the middle class that always lifts the burden of the country. Greek consumers will be charged with an additional EUR 638 million in VAT and EUR 88 million in excise duties. Although a VAT reduction package was established in May 2019, which has been costed by the State's General Accounting Office at EUR 667 million for 2020, I recall the drop from 24% to 13% in basic food and catering items and from 13% to 6% in electricity, gas and district heating. However, Greek taxpayers will pay EUR 323 million in income tax and EUR 84 million in more property taxes. You're doing tax evacuations. That's not enough. However, incomes, I would say, are even more burdened, but they are mainly for businesses without any developmentalprints, i.e. they do not encourage investment and, of course, employment. No concern for social justice. There is no support for medium-income layers. No care for vulnerable social strata, disabled people, pensioners, the unemployed. In fact, it should be pointed out here that expenditure on pre-school allowances is being cut, such as for disabled people, which expenditure from EUR 913 million in 2019 is falling to EUR 740 million. Moreover, family allowances are reduced by EUR 139 million, from EUR 1,1 billion in 2019 to EUR 961 million in 2020. So don't say, Mr Ministers, that your policy strengthens family and childbirth, and even with the country's demographic problem of being huge, births being frustrating, the country ageing and no light in the third-hand tunnel. And a disappointing observation, Mr President-in-Office, of unemployment. Unemployment remains the weak link of the economy and a permanent source of reflection. Indicators appear to be decreasing. However, this is not because of increasing employment and the soundness of the economy. Unfortunately, it is due to the export of labour to foreign countries and to the existence of a large rate of underemployment. And while it appears that in the second quarter of 2019 unemployment has fallen by two percentage points compared to 2018, the unemployed remain four hundred thirty thousand more than in 2008. So you bet on the hair arrangement, I'd say on the other proposals to beat Brain Drain and Unemployment. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. I fear that you will lose the battle with both Brain and unemployment. The roots of the problem are deeper and are not just wages. They relate to the overall standard of living in Greece, to bureaucracy, outdated public administration, the hostile entrepreneurial environment, the outdated social welfare and protection structures, corruption and opaque procedures. Why don't we dare - and that's a reality - put it in time. Corruption and opaque procedures today lack investments from the country and, more generally, from those that interact with the difficult daily life of the Greek citizen. In conclusion, I ask: will a child return to Greece when he does not see infrastructure and prospects of returning and building his life in his country? I guess not. I'm coming to the Public Investment Program. By the end of September 2019, the implementation of the Public Investment Programme was limited to 38.3%. And you, Minister, rest on the grounds that this is common at the moment, because for the years 2017 and 2018, a cumulative amount of 1.3 billion less than that could be spent was spent. Conclusion: Decisive policies need to be implemented for the full absorption of all funds, from the social budget. With regard to public investment expenditure, the provision, I would say, of expenditure for 2020 is at the same level as in 2019, that is to say, 6.7 billion. So another feature of the budget is that it does not promote public investment and does not attract private individuals to come to our country to invest. How, then, can you talk about growth, when all public wealth has been promised for ninety years to lenders and when the only change that you have brought was to raise the maximum wage ceilings for presidents, directors and appointed advisers of public enterprises and their subsidiaries, whose shares belong to the surplus when you have a new brave Public Investment Programme? So, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve growth, we need low primary surpluses, a high public investment programme, the opposite of what we are seeing today. For example, in the field of education you come with budget cuts from 441 million in 2019 to 386 million in 2020. There is therefore no provision for a permanent appointment of teachers. So we're continuing with the assistants' hostage with everything that that implies. And I come to the primary sector, which is the big bet for all of us. After all, wealth must now be domestic rather than borrower. There are great delays in the absorption of European funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I would remind you that the improvement plans have not been approved. The water programs are still pending, while the problems are large in olive oil, cotton and kale olives. Farmers are faced with the Greekization of products, with milk and meat sold at degrading prices. There is no provision for all of this, but there is no provision at all. While for all of us the primary sector remains a bet, today there are no initiatives to get him out of the deadlock. I should like to conclude by pointing out that the budget you are bringing, ladies and gentlemen, does not support the small and medium-sized income groups, does not support small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the backbone of our economy. It does not protect vulnerable social groups, it does not promote investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Constantopoulos, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u22	I'm done, Mr. President. It is not a budget that will support the development of our country and will make young people want to come, stay and invest in the country. That is why we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos. Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor. Then there will be an end to the flow of Members' speeches, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will speak Mr. Nikolaos Dendias. Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u24	I'm lucky to be ahead of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing you could say about the current government is that it does not keep its word. For three and a half years until the July elections, we talked about how we believe the country will re-enter the path of prosperity and security. As a government, we are now taking action on a different economic policy, which has three main priorities: fewer taxes, more investment, more costs that are being placed on the ground. These axes define the philosophy of the state budget for 2020. They say excessive taxes kill taxes. In fact, in SYRIZA's governance years, the bill of new taxes reached 5.5 billion euros. At the same time, overdue business and household debts increased by 18.1 billion euros. We, with this budget, put an end to overtaxation, put an end to the excessive primary surpluses based on overtaxation, create that margin in order to reduce tax burdens by EUR 1.2 billion with a reduction in HPAI, and even greater for low and medium-income incomes, with a reduction in the input rate, a reduction in the tax on each child, a reduction in the insurance contributions for full-time workers. At the same time, we have the possibility of increasing spending on sectors of particular social importance. We provide for EUR 120 million more in education, EUR 200 million in hospitals in relation to expenditure in 2019, EUR 108 million in addition to EEAS. We have, as we have committed ourselves, the so-called 'twelfth pension' and the following year. Approximately 250 million, increased and the cost of the OPECA, which gives the preferential benefits. Fewer taxes, therefore, giving breath and allowing injections where the most needed. We are also motivating more investment to go to the second axis of our economic policy. Knowing that the reduction of income tax and the taxation of profits for businesses alone is not enough, we want to support large investment, to give in to building, to stimulate liquidity with more aggressive use of European funding, by reducing public debts, with a gradual improvement in financing by the banks. We want, and the recent investment law is a good start, to release investment projects from the suffocating arms of bureaucracy. Because, let us repeat this, more and better jobs will come first and foremost from supporting entrepreneurship, both larger and smaller, and from the private initiative. They are the enterprises that invest, they are the new best-paid jobs for more of our fellow citizens than poverty, but they will also finance policies to protect and care for those who really need it. The third axis, ladies and gentlemen, is that we house the way we manage public finances. We provide for a reserve of EUR 300 million, so that we can strengthen the ministries for planned actions that need additional funding. We extend control over all public bodies of what can be saved and what can be collected in order to make more available to policies with a development impact. We are aiming to collect EUR 500 million which will come solely from the limitation of tax evasion. The basic instrument for this is 30% of the income to be spent on electronic transactions. The data from the banks show that it is a perfectly realistic limit that already exceeds at least eight out of ten taxpayers, and the necessary exceptions for our elderly fellow citizens and for special cases. We are sending out the message to society that tax evasion is also individual responsibility and that less tax evasion means even less taxes in the future and more money for social needs. A similar objective is to change the objective values in certain regions. We want values that correspond to the reality, regardless of where the property is and not to favour scandalously property owners in tourist resorts with an objective value much less than the commercial burden on those who raise an excessive tax burden on their real estate. We therefore want more contributions to be made, but also to make use of public revenues, so that they can catch more places. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget does not only express our plan for less taxes, more investment and better performance of public money. It is important that it is another step, another tool to rebuild our country's credibility, so that we can ask for the right time and achieve a reduction in the primary surplus target, so that we can free resources available to support employment, social protection, education, innovation, better quality of life. With the truth agreement we presented our plan in society and she honoured us with her confidence. The 2020 budget is another sign that we are determined to repay this trust, not just to a few people, but to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that from the top Western theories we attend our meeting of fifty-three students and students and three teachers from the Aristotle College of Thessaloniki. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nikos Dendias, has the floor. It is well known that the time of the ministers is ten minutes, but I think that the current national issues have their merits and there will be a tolerance for Mr Teddy in order to inform us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I will try not to take advantage of your particular kindness and tolerance. In any case, it is very important to me that I am succeeding Mr Yoyakas at Step that of the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all the budget debate is a process of intelligent dialogue. We all have, or at least the vast majority within the Chamber, a clear view of what went wrong in our three years, and our debt is to eliminate the causes that led the country and society to the ten-year economic crisis, from which we come out. The new government has the possibility of attempting this. We have the possibility of converting Greece into a point of attraction for investment. We have the possibility of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. We have the opportunity to motivate new businesses. We have the possibility of turning Greece into an innovation area, in a place where words such as "new business", "heats", will be words of the everyday life of young people. We have the opportunity to create the necessary thousands of new jobs, to bring back many of those who left our country in the years of the crisis, with a model of growth that has a main objective, well-paid jobs for everyone, in a modern context, which will support the employer, but of course it will necessarily protect the worker, in a society that every citizen can have its chances, create, dream a better future, feel safe and enjoy what every European favoured state must have. The policies of the new government are in this direction, and this is what the budget for the Greek Parliament is voting on. I now come to the foreign policy, whose responsibility has made me the great honour of being awarded by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to do this. You know, the situation is the most complex of the last decades, full instability in the Eastern Mediterranean, a problematic accession perspective for our northern neighbours, questioning the Thessaloniki Agenda, implementation of Brexit, immigration, new European Union policies, NATO's crisis of identity, an escalation of tension from the eastern neighbours to unprecedented levels. The Greek policy is called upon to reassign itself in the light of the new challenges. In order to do so effectively, he must abandon stereotypes. Ladies and gentlemen, let us agree to the fundamental. The inertia is not politics and ostrichism is not patriotism. It is the time of choice, it is the time to take responsibility, and if necessary it is the time to take political costs. We must also be on the basis of the assumption of the existing and realistic parameters that we must move in a spirit of national unity. Patriots for us are all MPs, all Greeks. The Mitsotakis Government and the Members who support it shall waive the privilege of issuing patriots certificates. Homoneness is the necessary factor of national survival. Unfortunately, we do not have the existential luxury of other European countries. We are, together with Cyprus, the only states in the European Union that have a national security problem because of the aggression of the neighbour by the East. Our Government seeks to secure the acquis of European consensus on the main lines of our foreign policy, the acquis that has been structured on the historic decisions of Constantine Karamanlis on the country's western and European character, which has been maintained and justified, regardless of the alteration in the power of parties with radically different ideological achievements: participation in NATO, strengthening the relationship with Israel, deepening the European perspective, safeguarding our role in the Balkans, strengthening our influence in the Arab world. With this acquis, we adapt our national strategy to the demands of times. Already in the first five months, Greece has been relocating as a member of the European Union's narrow core. It does not make as an end the unjustified division of the common positions of the Union for the benefit of third countries. So we can - and we have already done so - successfully invoke Community solidarity on matters of national importance. Balkans: We are relocating Greece as the stable and strong European country, as a pillar of stability. We are implementing the deepening of cooperation with all the countries in the region, both bilaterally and multilaterally. As you know, I have already been to Skopje, Tirana, Sofia, Belgrade, and I have repeatedly met with my Romanian counterpart to strengthen our political and economic footprint in the region. We practically support the accession perspective of the countries of the Western Balkans as the main axis of our policy. We are stepping up relations with Northern Macedonia, within the framework of mutually beneficial cooperation, but having made it clear that we will not tolerate the phenomena of non-compliance and the correct interpretation of the agreed ones. The same applies to Albania, but it requires absolute and complete respect for the rights of the Greek minority. Our aim is not only to strengthen security and stability, but also to build a true, solid friendship between the peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, the King's Charter has not by any chance been placed at the Office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic. As far as the Cyprus issue is concerned, since the first day of the Mitsotakis government, we have been in very close contact and cooperation with the Cypriot side to defend our common interests. We are seeking to deepen our heartfelt cooperation anyway. I've met numerous times with my Cypriot colleague and my friend, Mr. Nikos Christodoulides. The coordination of actions between us primarily concerns efforts to achieve the strategic aim of our country, which is the solution to the Cyprus problem. In the context of the discussions, as you know, a three-way meeting of the Secretary-General Mr Gutiérez with the two leaders took place recently, the first since the end of the negotiations in 2017. We have also, in consultation with the Cypriot side, succeeded in the European Union condemning Turkey's illegal activities. The Union’s unanimous reaction was translated into the form of a sanctions regime. According to them, the entry into the European Union will now be banned and assets of natural and legal persons involved in Turkey's illegal geo-terrestrial activities will be frozen. In the face of the policy of regulators, we continue and will continue to propose the policy of international legality. As far as Greek-Turkish relations are concerned, we have made it clear from the outset to Turkey that our main objective is to promote a policy based on the principles of good neighbourliness, respect for international law and international treaties. We have made it clear that for us the framework of actions is international law, which is not tolerated by provocative actions, is not tolerated by threats of war, it does not tolerate unilateral claims. Greece is a European country. Turkey will not lure us to the level of the Balkan fighter. We have also made it quite clear to all tons, and without a great deal of masturbation that we will, in our constitutional obligation, defend our national space. Ladies and gentlemen - and as you know, I very much count my words - if it is required and although we can do so alone, we will not be alone. I now come to the void Memorandum with the Government of Tripoli. There is a diplomatic campaign to ensure the support of the international community of our allies and partners, against the illegal acts of Turkey, which are clearly contrary to international law and the Law of the Sea, but let me also say to common sense. The recent summit of the European Union produced a text of conclusions that fully vindicates the Greek positions. The President of the European Council confirmed his full support for the following press conference. We had already achieved full solidarity with Greece in the Council conclusions on 3 December. Furthermore, following actions, the High Representative of the European Union, France, the Netherlands, Italy, Cyprus, the USA, Russia, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt were issued. I am visiting this week, in the context of further support for our positions, Saudi Arabia, Emirates and Jordan. We will continue until Turkey realize that infringibility only results in international isolation. However, this does not mean that we will not continue to keep a channel of communication open to the Turkish side. And we will not stop hoping, I must say with a reduced chance that Turkey will finally choose to approach the European acquis as a goal of its policy. With regard to relations with the United States, we have significantly strengthened our relations, a traditional ally with MDCA, an agreement that we signed after two and a half months of fiery negotiations. It will be submitted in a few days' time to the National Representation under your authority. As you know, I've met four times I think with Mr. Pompeo. In a few days, Prime Minister Mitsotakis will be admitted to the White House. As far as Russia is concerned, I went to Moscow to reinvigorate our ties, and I met Mr Lavrov, who will come to Athens and the Prime Minister and visit Moscow. As far as China is concerned, we are expanding our economic and trade relations, especially in the infrastructure sector. President Si was in Athens, the Prime Minister went to Shanghai. I have met three times, if I remember correctly, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. We are active in the emerging Asian markets, which also have a meeting with immigration. I have already met with the Indonesian and Bangladeshn ministers, as well as with the Central Asian and Caucasus State Ministers. In relation to the Arab world, we are strengthening our ties. I have already visited, as I have said, the United Emirates and Kuwait. We had extensive discussions with the ambassadors of the Member States of the Arab League. I have twice met the Secretary-General of the Arab League, the Secretary-General of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation and my counterpart in Qatar. We extend the tripartite forms of cooperation between Greece and Cyprus with the countries of the Middle East. We will work closely with our country-friendly countries in the region. Strong ties and close cooperation with Egypt emerge daily on the bilateral and multilateral level. I've already met more than four times with Mr. Sucrey. We are calling for interference with what has been said in Syria and Libya. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be observers when there are threats to our interests and our sovereign rights. At the same time, relations with Israel are deepening both bilaterally and at a tripartite level. I have visited Israel, I have seen Prime Minister Netanyahu and Mr Gunch, my counterpart minister, who has also come to Athens, but our foreign policy also has an extra dimension. An environmental dimension and a response to the phenomenon of climate change. [[At this point, the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] A meeting will be convened in Athens at the level of Heads of State and Government, with the aim of adopting a declaration including the Greek proposal for the protection of cultural heritage against the effects of climate change. As far as economic diplomacy is concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now, apart from foreign policy, is also a body of economic diplomacy, with a view to strengthening extroversion, exports and investment. Within the framework of the strategic planning we reorganise the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the draft law will be tabled immediately after the celebrations, we will fully re-order the delegations of the country abroad to serve our entire policy. We have strengthened the role of Enterprise Greece, it has been passed by the Greek Parliament, its new rules of operation, we will strengthen the legal framework of the Export Credit Insurance Agency with a new legislation so that it can serve Greek exports. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we are moving on the basis of specific principles. The New Democracy, the majority of the House, the Mitsotakis Government, is determined. He has turned his back on the patriocapacy, he has turned his back on self-limitation on the stereotypes of populism, turned his back on Balkan provincialism, on the misery of the constantly unjust, on the misery of the powerless, on the illusion of the brother nation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not culturally sponsored. The vast majority of mankind is involved in the culture that our ancestors have founded. Therefore, our potential brothers and interlocutors are all humans, regardless of race or color. Our foreign policy serves this open concept of the world. It incites the hand of friendship, inclines to cooperate with everyone. We believe in a Europe-friendly, modern, extroversion, modern, open to innovation, friendly to its neighbours, model for its region. A Greece ambitious, a Greece proud, a Greece with confidence, a Greece independent, a Greece strong with bridges to all, a Greece able to cope with cooling and effectiveness of every challenge. In the name of Greece, we are creating an external policy that takes into account the new world reality of the 21st century, with a sense of patriotic responsibility, but also with a sense of national and social consensus and unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak entirely of the budget alone, but by succeeding Mr Twelves in Step, I cannot make two comments. Obviously - and we agree - Turkey's provocative actions must be condemned in full. However, in June 2019, our government had achieved a framework of sanctions for illegal actions on the EEZ. Nothing's been activated by them. What have you done for all this? Second question. Today we have a second provocative action by Turkey. This irrevocable agreement between Turkey and Tripoli. Have you asked for an extension of sanctions and for that area provided for in that agreement? Because we cannot only talk about sanctions for the region of Cyprus. We need to talk about this area, too. A second comment. You told us you turned your back on the patriot. I mean, you turned your back on your election self, because with the patriots you took the election. That's exactly what you did. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I'm going to the budget. As we know, this is the second budget for the memoranda. Because contrary to what you were saying again in the election, the country came out of the memorials on August 21st 2018, despite the fact that you told us that we have brought a fourth memorandum. After all, the report accompanying the budget confirms this. However, it is a budget that includes memorandum policies in non-morandum conditions. Why am I saying he has commemorative policies? Because your idealism - your neoliberal ideal - does not allow you to realise that there must be a balance between social expenditure and tax relief. This budget is neither social nor developmental. Most of the relief, the extension of the budget, goes to business tax at the expense of the social state. All operations? No, because 60% of enterprises are not going to benefit from any of these tax evasions. He's going to the big business. Because 80% of the tax relief goes to 2.5% of businesses, while even more shocking is that 40% of the benefit goes to only 0.07% of enterprises, namely two hundred companies, which have great profits. In small businesses, in small and medium-sized enterprises, how much is relief? From EUR 1 to EUR 17 per month. Bravo! That's a lot of tax relief you've achieved. As far as the employees are concerned? Two euros a month. Congratulations! In the preliminary draft you presented to the Commission, the truth is clear. Your class partiality is clear. An increase of EUR 72 for the poorest 10% of the population and an increase of EUR 353 for the richest 10% of the population. Who benefits most? The rich. Bravo! Congratulations! So what does the middle-class budget provide for? Increasing the tax on natural persons by EUR 323 million, reducing the tax on legal persons - that is, businesses - by EUR 446 million, revenue from the fine for electronic transactions and the airbnb EUR 702 million. Do you really believe that? You're probably going to tax a lot on those who haven't achieved the e-commerce. And what else does it predict? Increasing the EMCDDA by 142 million. Where did this reduction of HISPIA really go? The 200 million, of which 100 million went to the rich 3.5% of the population. Congratulations! You've reduced it, and now you're increasing it again. On the other hand, we said that HPAI had to be reduced by 30% in mid- and 50% in low and medium-sized assets. Why don't you use the SYRIZA government's forecast in order to reduce the primary surplus to 2.5%, using the pillow? Why don't you bring down a trade fee? Why don't you abolish the solidarity levy? Why don't you bring in a 50% tax deposit? But you will allow me to go to the shipping ministry's budget, where the budget is a grey area. And I'm explaining: While the barren lines to date were covered by the regular budget, they were transferred to the EPP. We agreed on this and voted on it. So last year's budget for barren lines was 88.3 million. In the regular budget this year, it writes 9 million, which is reasonable because of multiannual contracts. You said, however, that you will give EUR 136 million for barren lines, namely EUR 125 million from the Public Investment Programme for feralties. In addition, 157 million has been committed for the transport equivalent from the Public Investment Programme. For the purposes of port policy, we gave 12 million from the EIP again last year. For the projects and actions of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy 7 million. For Headquarters a million. Overall, therefore, the funding requirements of the Public Investment Programme are 313 million. Do you know how much they're booked in the budget? A hundred million. There's 213 million missing. Where are these millions? How will you implement these actions? Would you cut off the transport equivalent? The regulation on fuels in the small islands is already not renewed. Are you going to cut off the works in the ports, cut off the actions for the islands? Tell us what you're going to do, because your budget's not coming out. That's why I'm saying he's gray and he's also politically deceived. To go to the revenues, you had voted against the End of Recreation Ships and denounced us for this. But write down 12 million. Also, increase ship tax. What's that raise? Fifteen million, paid by Greek fishermen, congratulations, this way you help the primary sector! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The budget also provides for the new refugee flows management code of 2.6 million. That code didn't exist. What are you going to do with this money and with what process? Because I think they're going to some best friends to carry refugees while there are regular lines. Also - since this has not been discussed - go sell the ports. We have managed to make concessions, such as 86% of all of Europe. You guys go sell the ports. Don't do that. In closing, as I have said before, your budget is neither developmental nor the social one is only able to increase class inequalities. You give a few people and a lot of them. We never did that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u30	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to take the floor. I would just like to tell you one opinion and adopt it if you wish or reject it. If on the whole position of the debate on foreign affairs lately I have to see a divergence from the point of view of the Officerial Representation, it lies in the fact that the word is heavier - perhaps the word is heavier, because the look is indeed a world one - the government because it does not immediately request the extension of the sanctions regime as a result of the signature of the Memorandums. By the way, I would like to tell you that we now have our hands and the second memorandum. We had the first, and we have the second memorandum signed by Turkey with the Government of Tripoli. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that this is obviously a matter of regularity, not a matter of principle. The Greek Government has not placed itself against the imposition of sanctions on Turkey. After all, the Greek Government has cooperated to impose the sanctions regime on the infringements. So it's a regular matter. As you well understand, tactics, that is, the timing of the reactions, are not something that can be discussed at the level of an open debate. I would ask, therefore, very sincerely - because I have heard that the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, has said so - that I respect all aspects of this. No one has the absolute knowledge and yet not us and the counsel is always accepted. But I would very much like to ask the order of practice, because of the criticality of the moments, not to do so at the level of public dialogue. There are routes of communication. We can talk to each other with absolute integrity. And again, no one has the privilege of absolute knowledge. We understand that we are right to order our reactions. I would ask you, do not force us to respond publicly to this because I do not think it is in the national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. I shall say, as Bureau, that tactics are not to be announced, it is to be done. And there are, of course, roads. Besides, the reaction at every time of Antipopulation, even as a contrast, can be very beneficial. And it might be, I'd say, consensual. Maybe! Not that we have a situation like this now. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis marks a change in the economy, which has already started with the rise of the New Democracy to the government. Government stability, which the self-powered Mitsotakis government guarantees, has a direct reflection on the economy, which, as we all know, is directly linked to psychology. Already the climate in the economy has changed. The country's borrowing costs have never been so low - almost zero - rate. The markets give a vote of confidence in reforms, not only in the economic sector by removing obstacles to flagrant investments, but also in the fields of security and education. The self-evident throughout the Western world day after day also prevails in Greece. They're no longer asking for it. After a decade of crisis, which I wish was only economic, because it is a deeper crisis of values and standards, it may be time to see again who we are and who we aspire to be the next day for our country. In less than two years, we will be celebrating the two hundred years of independence. It's an opportunity to stand up to the circumstances, away from the sarcasm of splitting, which a little missed to blow away in the air and the Revolution of 1821, and to see two truths in the eyes. And after we agree, we dare to take drastic measures. Really first. Greece is getting old and shrinking. It's one of the countries with the oldest population. The figures have been shocking and have had to mark a national alarm. In addition to reducing births, we also have a half a million young people fleeing during the crisis, which if they do not return in the coming years, the problem will become even more intense and I fear irreversible. It is good that even at the very last moment we are now realizing that the demographic project is a time bomb on the ground. In the budget there are measures to support motherhood and family creation, such as the allowance of EUR 2 000 for every child born from the new year. Incomprehensible measures have also been abolished, such as the imposition of a luxury tax on large-scale cars for multiple families, and a reduction in VAT on infant species has also been introduced. There is no doubt that it is in the right direction. But more brave, as well as more perseverance, are needed, because everyone agrees that these measures require time to pay off. However, it is essential to marry a couple, to have a family, to know that she will have a job, well-paid jobs as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said earlier, in a country that is stable and future. I think that is what the New Democracy Government is doing. Really second. The country must proceed immediately to the strengthening of the Armed Forces. In the neighborhood we live are naive to think that without powerful Armed Forces capable of guaranteeing national independence and territorial integrity, we can ensure peace. And if there were some naive SYRIZA Members who have been urging us to risk reducing armaments costs in the past, I would like to believe that after the crescendo of the Turkish challenges, it is now a matter of national existence that strengthening the country's deterrent capacity. Greece is no doubt invoking international law on its side. The first Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the present Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikos Treasury has informed allies and friends, creating a safety net. At the same time, however, we must immediately see an integrated armament programme over time. After ten years of crisis, everyone can ask for butter. I fear, however, that without cannons there will be no butter. I know that the minds of some people come the hates of the past. After all, two former defence ministers of Mr. Simitis are in prison. But I agree with the statement by the current Minister of National Defence Nikos Panayotopoulos that he should not sleep, because he could be charged with a mistress, rather than left the country unprotected. As long as Europe, ladies and gentlemen, has no military arm and is forced to rely on NATO and the ambiguities of the President of the United States, we can only rely on our own forces. I would therefore like to see an increase in defence spending in the next budget, Mr Ministers. One more thing. An increase in military service cannot be a matter of taboo because of political costs. I also think that we should seriously consider the army in the eighteen, immediately after high school, as is happening in Cyprus and Israel. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is national, I will close with a reference to a project, which is primarily environmental, has been dispersed and dispersed as a pharaonic, while some have been caught in outdated opinions. I'm talking about Acheloos and the two hydroelectric dams that will produce green, environmentally friendly energy. In the national energy and climate plan under consultation, there is no mention of the Sykia Dam, a project that is incomplete and for which millions of euros have been spent. I would like to believe, ladies and gentlemen, that following our points and remarks, it will be included. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Besides, if something has rightly been won by the Mitsotakis Government - I will need a minute, Mr President - and it is recognised by the citizens, it is the result of pre-election promises and post-elections. Consistent adherence to the promises is primarily of an educational nature and will help restore the confidence of policy and citizens, which has been so hurt in recent years. In this sense and the budget that we are discussing is a great step forward in the election promises made by the citizens and that is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Mr. Delis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u35	We would like to stand by the poor relatives of this budget, such as education, let us say. You will tell me years now and this one, like the 'poor relatives' health, is with all governments. Perhaps that is why this year's budget for the education of the New Democracy looks almost like a copy of the SYRIZA last year. In other words, God's sub-funding. We didn't expect anything else, of course. The Memorandum of Understanding of SYRIZA is also the Gospel of the New Democracy. And here's the results. For the second consecutive year, the section of the Public Investment Programme on education infrastructure is reduced by EUR 50 million. What does that mean? In addition to the tragic shortcomings and problems of the educational buildings, which will continue, there is no kindergarten program, both necessary for the implementation of the two-year compulsory pre-school education that SYRIZA has adopted, but without, however, he will never take care of infrastructural and staff. And it is well known, the terrible shortages in kindergartens, especially in large cities. There is also a continuing stifling of contracted teachers - forty thousand this year - by their permanentisation and the appointments that are being announced and never made. We have not only the perpetuation of audacity here, but also the expansion and permanentization of flexible work with a date of dismissal. As for the four and a half thousand permanent assignments to special treatment, when they are made, it will not just be a drop in the desert of shortages, but one more thing. It will be the guarantee of a disgraceful institutional framework under SYRIZA's 4589, a law which, in fact, is simply a qualification and inaugurates a huge market of qualifications beyond the degree. The ongoing state subsistence is leading to suffocation and schools throughout the country, not to mention the serious problems of school roofing and the necessary anti-Semitism of schools, both subsistent or unexistent for half the schools, since they were built without an anti-Semitism regulation. The summer earthquake of Athens and the serious problems it created in fortunately closed schools was only the bell that today's government does not hear it. The same at the universities. And here underfunding is pushing them into business as anonymous companies to apply tuition to almost all postgraduate and cowardly cowardly and undergraduate, the so-called exploitation of their real estate in cooperation and the benefit of the individuals and businesses that surround them by ordering them and their relatives, of course, research into their business and, of course, by devaluing student care, it is not enough to meet 10% of the needs of students. Who really makes up for this government sub-financing? Who pays all these shortcomings? But, of course, popular families, when and when they have, for children's stations, when to keep their children from cold in school, when to maintain school. A lifetime is dismantled, at first and when children are young for a lot of artistic and sporting activities that the public school had to provide and then for rent and for so many costs, to study their children, since student care does not actually exist. But here, Mr President-in-Office, we are saying that we should stop talking only about shortcomings, logistical deficiencies. We are talking about changing the debate at last on the content of school and education itself. Is this continuing deterioration of the logistical conditions with which education from kindergarten to university operates? Is the only reason why the financial restrictions are? No, it's one more thing. This logistical degradation of education is nailed - meat by deterioration of its contents. When you face pre-school education not as the primary right of all children to the most critical phase of their lives, but as a simple harmonisation of a woman's working life with her family obligations - that is the European Union's phrase and nothing but that - counting the cost of non-harmonisation in the European Union, because these measures, at EUR 370 billion, have been achieved, then it is of course explained why the governments and the European Union are completely indifferent to the conditions for implementing pre-school education and accepting small children as in warehouses, containers, in inappropriate rooms without any single programme and with personal consumables. Their policy goes up to pediatric care and nothing else. The history of the 20th century now, when we go to primary and secondary education, is completely extinct from the material of the history of the third grade. Why should students know about the 20th century’s financial crises, about the two World Wars, about fascism and those who financed it? Why should the teenager learn about the struggles of the peoples, about the first state of labour in the world, the Soviet Union, who gave millions of people dead in battle against fascism? Why should they learn about the major revolutions that opened the way for social conquests around the world? Why should youth read about events that show people are changing, can it change from the organized workers' struggle? Such lessons as they are known do harm the new generation who must learn to work strickenly and without rights. Why should our students know about Auschwitz today, about Distomo and Kalavrita, about EAM and ELAS, about the two two executed Communists in Cesarean? After all, in the living room of the European Union, there are often leaders of states who one day honor the partners of the Nazis and, on the other hand, they have illegally declared the communist parties. Should they know about Hiroshima, about imperialist interventions all over the planet? No, of course, because we will insult Truman's memory, the statue that New Democracy and SYRIZA have on shifts, and why we will abuse NATO, which today with the European Union is triggering new wars and refugee. But something's moving. Thousands of students are mobilized, students of public IEK are organizing and claiming what they are entitled and dragged to the police above, as the student amphitheatres in Thessaloniki the other day are reliving. All of them together with the working class and the populace next Wednesday are going to say the big "no" in the budget, putting another stone on the long path of overthrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr Dionis Akuppis, from New Democracy, followed by Mr Gilolas from SYRIZA. Please keep the time. You see, I have a tolerance, but as a point. Here you go, Mr. Akuppi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one year ago Kyriakos Mitsotakis in this Chamber, starting his speech on the 2019 budget, had said that the 2019 budget is the last budget that the SYRIZA government brings and was right. Last year was the last of a series of budgets that the SYRIZA government had brought to the attention of the Greek Parliament, a series of budgets, which, if one were to grapple them, perceived the deep Memorandum of Understanding of the SYRIZA Government, the government which, for four and a half years, played our country in an endless cycle of austerity, bringing irreparable damage to our economy, a government which had granted discharge from the memoranda and finally bound the country to reasonable overcrowding by 2060 and bound the public property for more than a hundred years. Ladies and gentlemen, our people do not forget. The excessive and without any mercy of taxation, which resulted in the dissolution of the middle class, the equilibrium of the citizens and the migration of our children will be eternally identified in the minds of the Greeks in these four and a half years that SYRIZA was in power. But today, for the first time in years, the New Democracy Government has brought before the Greek Parliament a budget that is mainly characterised by the optimism of a new beginning, a new beginning for our country, without, however, ignoring the red lines of realistic reality. We have in front of us a budget which incorporates all the commitments and objectives as announced by the Prime Minister at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, a budget that is best suited to the expectations of the citizens, which on 7 July were chosen by their vote in New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis as a guide to a better tomorrow. Indeed, the main forecasts of the 2020 budget are not other than the reduction of debt from 167% of GDP, the increase in revenues to EUR 2.4 billion, the fastest possible removal from the logic of surpluses and the increase in growth to close to 2.8%. Furthermore, the budget does not lack any provision for real expenditure in useful areas such as health, education, social security and defence. The 2020 budget has been structured on the basis of the forecast for a significant increase in investment and also for the expansion of the tax base. This is what the government has said that growth and the further degression of unemployment are now a one-way road to the Greek economy. In particular, the Government believes that, with the continuation, further deepening and the completion of the structural changes and measures to liberalise the country's productive forces, the Greek economy will enter a faster growth rate, which has already begun to appear. There are positive statements by European officials that the particularly low interest rates in Greece will be taken into account when considering the request for a reduction in primary surpluses. At the same time, and one of our critics in recent years, the new President of the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagard, for the first time declares impressed by the progress that Greece has made both in terms of fiscal restructuring and in terms of growth. One issue I would like to raise is tax relief, social measures amounting to EUR 1,2 billion, which have also been incorporated into the 2020 budget, measures relating, among other things, to reforming the income tax of natural persons at an import rate of 9%, to reduce the income tax of legal persons from 28% to 24%, to suspend VAT on new buildings for three years, but also to suspend the real estate tax for three years which not only give a breath to the economy but are gaining ground in the battle to enhance market confidence. However, contrary to the 2019 budget, this year's budget also provides for strengthening the health, education and insurance sectors. A special reserve is also provided for covering and strengthening expenditure in these sectors. For our education, too, the budget is increased by EUR 102 million. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, today we are turning a page and sending a clear message to the markets. Greece is standing on its feet. From now on we are taking the wheel of our country and with a reform framework that we have created, moving forward, seeking a position of importance and influence in the international community. We leave behind the last night, the countless ideas, the lies and the indiscriminate populism. We leave behind the logic of the state-owned economic model, which has led to the creation of a huge investment gap. We are going on the path of truth and not of illusion, on the path of growth and not on the path of stagnation and regression. We seek to create opportunities and jobs, but also to create the financial area that will enable the weak to be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Mr. Gilolas, from the Radical Left Coalition, has the floor, followed by Mrs. Dunia from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, our country's budget has been sometimes characterised as a developmentist or materialist, monumental or antimonetary, expansionary or conservative. The budget being voted is purely or mainly obsessive. For the New Democracy, the figures are not recorded to give a realistic and secure prediction of the economic progress towards economic growth, even as you see it. The accounting data are presented processed and filtered to agree with any estimates consistent with your identifiable and ideological background. During your account, the improvement of the country's finances depends entirely on the market and the only forces capable of producing its wealth. The invisible driving force of the self-regulated market - particularly socially creepy - will only cause investment, promote entrepreneurship and create new jobs and even well-paid jobs. How do you see all this happening? Of course, at least that's the way your answer is recorded, it's the tax reliefs, but which have been unilaterally distributed in favour of major business interests and elites. On the contrary, expenditure on public investment, infrastructure and the environment, social protection and public goods, on opportunities for the skilled potential of young people, you have judged them as not necessary, limiting them to the minimum. For you, it is enough that the forces of entrepreneurship and speculation will be left out of control, even though they will be exempt from institutional, environmental and other restrictions - you call them rockets - so that they will in some magical way be built up with investments, which will also bring new jobs. Unfortunately, the recipe is tested, successful for the great wealth and the occupants, but condemning all the popular strata and the middle class. These choices, in addition to their anti-social character due to the adoption of the absolute neoliberal dogma, will surely be tested by external factors, a position that is clearly reflected in the budget text, as these circumstances are likely to disprove the high growth you predict in accordance with your current macroeconomic scenario. Such unfavourable developments are reported, as they are recorded in your budget, after all: The problematic growth rate at the level of the euro area, with particular emphasis on the continuous decline in the annual growth of real GDP in the euro area from 3% in 2017 to 1.2% in 2018 and 1,1% continuously, in the third quarter of 2010. The existence of further escalation of commercial tensions and commercial protectionism. New global geopolitical tensions, particularly evident in our sensitive neighbourhood of the Southeast Mediterranean, but also related to the aggressive policy of the eastern neighbour. Possible risk of a decline in the tourist sector, following a continuous rise of seven years, as a result of the above-mentioned critical events, but also because of the bankruptcy of an international tourist colossus. On what criteria, therefore, do you have your conviction of growth rate of 2.8%, while the International Monetary Fund and the OECD predict 2.2% and the Commission 2.3%? It's the well-known wish. How do you lead to the prediction that private consumption in the country will spread from 0.6% this year to 1.8% in 2020, since natural persons, i.e. households, those of whom we expect to consume, will be charged with an additional EUR 323 million income tax, EUR 84 million property tax, and about 106 million less tax refunds, i.e. a total amount of EUR 513 million, which will probably be deprived of, except for the local market? I also need to have some basic data on the revenues and expenditures of the State budget of 2020, and try to compare them with those of 2019. The projected increase in net revenues of the State budget for 2020 is a absolute figure of 132 million of the previous year. In other words, we have a comparative reduction of 40%. Social benefits in 2019 were increased by EUR 1,834 billion, to the maximum extent the budget report shows and credited to our government, as the amount of EUR 971 million was included in this increase for the granting of the tenth pension, which you have so much misled, and which we had voted as a permanent measure, while you are the one who deletes it. You have even baptised her as a 'extensive allowance' and on this pretext, you have also cut the CRL. Another enlightenment of your intentions is the estimated reduction in the income tax of legal persons of EUR 440 million. However, the reduction resulting, in particular, is directed at large firms, since the maximum rate, 80%, will be directed to only six thousand firms, representing 2.5% of all of them. It is also necessary to point out the fact that increases are expected in the municipality too - a hidden sum - the end of real estate, which is budgeted increased by 111 million. It's another indirect tax ranch. Finally, it is necessary to refer to the limitations on social and other costs such as: reductions in benefits for SMEs of 170 million. For family allowances of EUR 140 million a reduction. In addition, a reduction of 51 million for the rental allowance. In addition, pension expenditure is cut by 250 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I can have your kindness and tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. You see, it has not been enough to abolish Easter's 15th pension to ensure that high incomes are taxed. After all, you have implemented it completely outrageously and with the 22% reduction in HISPIA, but it was the one that was burdening on the side of the high and only property, primarily of high quality. The limitation of the CRL, the Social Income of Solidarity, is socially unacceptable and must be heard with urgency. The CRL in 2017 allocated 629 million euros to a million six hundred thousand beneficiaries. In 2018, it allocated EUR 750 million to three six hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. In 2019, it lent EUR 780 million to three million seven hundred thousand beneficiaries. This year, the CRL only shares 175 million in seven hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries. These are, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to make a special mention to the government's refusal to negotiate the relaxation of the primary surplus target by 1% of GDP or 1.9 billion. I conclude by saying that we are voting against the government's budget, which, with a clear class orientation, favours the large business groups and the occupants and curtails the conquests and social rights of the people and of the middle classes, without prejudice to the development of a fair and sustainable economic growth for the vast majority of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Dunia from New Democracy has the floor and then Mrs. Alexopoulou from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the first weeks of the New Democracy in power, it has been evident that this is a government of completely different philosophy from the previous one, a government based on substance and not on phenomena, with the sole aim of improving the level of life of the Greeks. The tactical accumulation of money in the public by exorbitant excesses against the citizens, who were the flag of SYRIZA's policy, has no place on our own agenda. The amount that the previous government managed to raise by removing it from society and the market naturally reached 11.4 billion euros. This is an arrogant, inappropriate sum, which was far greater than what the previous government had agreed with the institutions. In order to create this surplus, the citizens suffered, as suffered by the excessive taxation they suffered. This is also apparent from the increase in public debts over the same period. The monstrous surpluses, as well as the tax evacuation of citizens, who keep our economy away from stable and high growth, are now a past. The change in economic policy has already made itself clear with the immediate tax relief measures, such as the medium-term reduction in HICP and the reduction in income taxes on households and businesses, as well as the new structural measures to improve the investment environment already taken. This change is now demonstrated by the 2020 budget, which includes budgetary measures supporting the citizens' available income, strengthening entrepreneurship and investment, and reducing the economy and tax evasion. The 2020 budget not only covers the budgetary gap that the new government inherited for the current and next year, but also creates the financial area for the significant reduction in tax rates, the increase in public investment and economic growth. Amongst other things, the first budget of the Mitsotakis Government provides for a significant increase in growth rate since 1.5%, which was in the first half of 2019, to 2.8% in 2020, further reduction in unemployment to 14% or about 100 thousand less unemployed, restructuring of the Public Investment Program by strengthening its co-financed part and ending the under-utilisation that characterised it until this year, achieving our agreed budgetary objectives, but also reducing Greece's debt and loan needs and, finally, an effective and less costly state. It is important that our Government's householding of public finances is not at the expense of public policies. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that our economic policy is of a development nature, since it reduces the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% from the year 2019, reduces the tax on dividends from 10% to 5% in 2020 and strengthens the building activity by suspending VAT on new buildings for three years and the real estate tax. However, the 2020 budget is above all social in nature with interventions, firstly, for families and infertileness, such as the provision of a EUR 2000 allowance to young families for each child born on 1 January with extended income criteria covering more than 90% of families, but also the submission of infantry items at the low VAT rate of 13%, secondly, for road safety with a significant reduction in VAT on the helmets of machines which, of course, shows the Government's willingness to limit the dramatic phenomenon of road accidents in our country and, lastly, for natural persons with a reform of personal income tax with an import rate of 9%, an increase in tax on each child and a reduction in insurance contributions for full-time workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the government focuses on citizens and their needs by implementing policies to strengthen social cohesion. It also lays the foundations for strong growth with greater liquidity, greater income available for all, more investment and better jobs. The new economic measures of the government, but also our commitment to the continuation of the necessary arrangements, will certainly restore full confidence in the markets in the Greek economy and allow us to return to the page at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Dunia. With Mrs Alexopoulou from the Greek Solution, the first cycle of speakers is closed. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2020 budget today. I could say that, apart from wishful thinking, I see nothing really essential, nothing that promises real growth for our economy. The economic suffocation of the citizens continues in the new Republic, simply reminding us of the SYRIZA policy in another form. But I prefer to focus on a number of social policy issues, especially those of the so-called vulnerable categories, because we should finally look at the problems of these people and help to resolve them in practice. It is a budget that is unthinkable for vulnerable social groups. Let me say it differently. It is not socially fair or supports small and medium-sized groups once public investment is absent. So words have remained the government's promises of development, since in practice we see the completely opposite. The 2020 budget proves the truth. From there on, we do not have any realistic constraint on expenditure, which is provided for, which inevitably works at the expense of vulnerable social groups, which remain unprotected within the strict neoliberal logic of the rulings. Where is the famous protection net for people with disabilities or pensioners or, finally, for households who are proven to be in the limits of poverty? No plan, no strategy on your part, gentlemen of the government, you have no plans for all of these people, and I inform you of millions of souls, which your economic logic sets aside. You work more like lifeless accounting machines that ignore the humanitarian dimension of things. I'm sorry, but this conclusion comes out of this budget. For example, we have the most acute demographic problem in Greece, which you too confess in the draft budget report, presenting some general wishes to fight against it. However, without parallel development policies, the birth rate in that country will never be combated and the demographic problem will not be resolved with semi-metres. As for the EUR 2000 child's birth allowance, which you are so advertised, I cannot tell who exactly it is about and how many Greek families will benefit from it, unless, of course, you too are enthusiasts of resolving demographics through illegal immigration. How, then, will there be economic growth? How will the economy be developed with such budgets, with such a logic? You remind us of the hardest policies of the old school in Chicago, which were set on the social margin and were effectively destroying whole groups of people who had the misfortune - the flaw of you - to be born with disabilities or to become old or to become old or to become poor, by unexplained economic policies, such as those followed by both you and the former ones. What's the focus of your reasoning? The primary surpluses, as if they were going to bring new jobs, as if they were going to bring even elementary growth or investment. Some years now we have heard this candy about primary surpluses, but it is essentially a brake on real growth. Can I talk to you for a second with evidence? I know they're getting tired maybe, but I'm gonna tell you a few numbers so you can get a lot better understanding what I mean. You are reducing by about EUR 173 million the benefits provided by the AIFM. Like family allowances, you reduce them by EUR 139 million, as well as the rental allowance, and you reduce this by EUR 52 million. We're talking about scissors in the social state. This is true - at least with your own elements - since the mindset of Milton Friedman, who is deep inside you, cannot hide it, the attitude that he considers unnecessary for our society to be the ones who have real needs, those who have life to bring to suffering and weaknesses, but also those who are the future of this country, that is, its young people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment more, Mr President, I would like your tolerance, because it is my first speech and I would like...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u44	Go ahead, my colleague, we have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. Even the OAED budget is cut by 75 million euros. I do not think that this is yours - I repeat - which is relentless to be able to talk seriously about growth or a social state. And all this comes up - I could say - as a natural follow-up to the logic of the government which excludes many, as it was clearly seen in the question of social dividends. Why, really, have you excluded over a million families from this year's social dividend? This could be allocated to many more households, because of course the need is more than enough for the social dividend this year. And all these people expected how and how to pass decently on these holy days of the festivals. But you deprived them of it. But you do not say anything about the sector that will bring real development in our country, the primary sector. You do not say a word, but we in the Greek Solution have, in our programme, whole proposals, concrete proposals for exploiting our rich production sources, talent and labour productivity of the Greeks, and much more that you seem to be ignoring or despising. Why are you talking about investment, about the heavy tourism industry and other important things - that is, I am not saying - but, most importantly, I am the primary sector, you say nothing. Fortunately there is a Greek solution to remind you. As we say in our programme, the primary sector...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u46	Mrs Alexopoulou, and my tolerance is exhausted, you've spoken for nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u47	All right, hold on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u48	Hold on a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u49	But that is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u50	All right, that's the first time my colleague has been talking! But I am presided over. What can we do now? Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u51	The primary production sector is not only the foundation of the economy, but also the key factor in the economic reconstruction of a state. As a result, the rural economy sector and the industries of plant and animal production can become the main lever of the Greek economy. What I have pointed out to you, ladies and gentlemen, is that you take them seriously, if we really want to bring to our home country the great recovery and development of our national economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou, and I wish you at some point for your party to put you either a parliamentary representative or a special rapporteur, so that you could have more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u54	So the first cycle is over. It seems that each cycle lasts two to two and a half hours with a minister. When they're more ministers, it'll last longer. I say this so that everyone can calculate about when they will speak. In the second cycle the following Members will speak: Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Vartenmenos, Mr. Kelles, Mr. Ilhan Ahmet, Mrs. Kefaloniann, Mrs. Christidos, Mr. Cappatos, Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Vartzopoulos, Mr. Xanthiopoulos, Mr. Loverdes from New Democracy and Mrs.Adamopoulou from Mera25. So we start with Mr. Stamenitis from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual debate on the budget, in addition to presenting the budget management for next year, is a great opportunity to assess the progress of each government, its choices, its targets and ultimately its success or its failure. The most reliable way, indeed, to measure these elements is to examine what each government has received, what the predictions were, what it did during its term of office to power and what it delivers. So let us see the economic path through the governments' choices from 2012 onwards. Let us see, in other words, a few examples: in 2012, the New Democracy Government received a recession of 8.9%, it delivered the economy with 0.8% growth. In two and a half years, that is, there was a change of almost 10% of GDP upward, a successful route. Within four and a half years, SYRIZA only managed to get growth from 0.8% to take it to 1.5%, but after putting the country two years into recession, forecasts in 2014 talked about a cumulative GDP growth of around 10% in the next few years, i.e. the time that SYRIZA ruled. Ultimately, SYRIZA delivered the economy with little - subtle - improvement, but where the loss of the ten units of GDP that existed in the forecast in 2019 is charged to it. The New Democracy then received an economy on the edge of the cliff and handed it over to the markets. On the contrary, SYRIZA has since 2015 sent the economy a step before leaving the euro, bringing a crisis of confidence, exclusion again from the markets, ejection of spreads and ending up in a third inappropriate memorandum. In the first half of 2015, the Greeks paid it very expensively with what followed, overtaxing, EUR 12.5 billion extra taxes, reduction in pensions, wages, cuts, EUR 100 billion losses in total. These are the words that describe SYRIZA policy. This has proved to be their real proposal for the country, which until they took over, covered behind the fact that they did not have any power, but which, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, has now been lost definitively, you have past and actions. So we can judge, because we have seen with our eyes and experienced the choices of the SYRIZA government and the fraud that then became illusory. I shall mention all of them because we are listening today to the suggestions made by the SYRIZA officials who are once again trying to present us with the white black, obviously to hide the truth that is very bad for them. But the evidence bears witness to reality and we are all judged by evidence. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now come to the results of the political choices of the way in which the new Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis operates, taking the specific budget as an example, which provides for a growth rate of 2.8% of GDP and an estimate that the primary surplus will be formed at 3.6% of GDP, that is to say, the objective that you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, have voted without having beastly over-representations that you achieve by dissolving the middle class. It is a budget that fulfils the current government's commitments to Greek citizens, a budget that marks the return to normality, allowing Greece fearlessly and confidently to look forward to the future, leaving behind a troubled decade, a budget that we owe to Greeks and Greeks since 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in many years the draft national budget contains no additional measures, but on the contrary, it includes a reduction for households and businesses of a total of EUR 1,18 billion. The reduction, in fact, of the tax from 22% to 9% to 10,000 euros is concerned? The ones who have or have small and medium-sized enterprises? It is a draft budget with developmental features, geared to strengthening the economy through the investment initiative, public and private, which is optimistic while setting realistic targets, balanced between economic growth and efficiency and social justice. In short, we could say that with this draft budget the country returns to normality and passes to the era of reconstitution and reconstruction. His vote concludes the first half of New Democracy, just as it began, that is, with absolute consistency of words and actions. The plan incorporates what the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said at the ICU, thus restoring the credibility of the political staff in the eyes of the Greeks and Greeks. We do not need to do - I think it is without substance - a comparison of the first semester of the Mitsotakis government with the first half of the government of Tsipras - Varoufakis. Ladies and gentlemen, although space is too short, as the new government only counts six months, the evidence we have in our hands bear witness to an economy that is gaining momentum and capital. After four and a half years of criminal choices and errors, the Greek economy is coming back to light. We take the last turn that will lead us to the path of growth and prosperity. And along with the economy, climate is restored to public life. Public dialogue takes other features. Questions are being raised about the future and how to face the major challenges. They end experiments, acrobats and suicidal leaps to the void, without divisions away from false promises and inexpensive populism. The political will exists, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government have demonstrated it since the first day. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my position, I would like to stress that by analysing the figures described in the previous years and the options adopted by each government, we can conclude the time-consuming consistency of the New Democracy in the dogma that she has been emphasizing since its establishment to date, namely the doctrine of a strong Greece with a stable economy, leading in the Western world, which is a timely stabilising factor in the Balkan region. That's what we do this time. Since the first day the Greek people trusted us again with their vote, we are making Greece strong again. We are regaining our international role as protagonists and not as sayings. We offer the citizens and we don't ask them to take the chestnuts out of the fire. We are again becoming a normal country and a great one. The 2020 budget, which we are debating today, clearly reflects this political will. Thank you and I state very clearly that I am voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, nineteen visitors. Among the visitors I see some young children and this is very pleasant, although most young. Thank you, and the House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bored by SYRIZA, followed by Mr. Kelles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, people have their weaknesses, and if you like, and their bits. I raised Mr Mitsotakis' speech last year on the budget. What did he say? It's not about what he said, it's about what he didn't say. We're not talking about opposition hard. We're talking about a zero, a division, a toxicity that, if anyone read it today, would say he doesn't have a precedent. Underneath a hysterical grid Mr.Mitsotakis cried: "The worst government in postmultition." And after winning the elections, the achievements, the performance, the data of this government, after a tragicly difficult memorial period, under cruel conditions, at the sacrifices of the people, all of these things become its own. What performance? "The worst government of postmultiple"! He knew something, of course, because when the markets recognize these performances, you cannot, by recognizing the Gospel of the markets, question the data, because you will fall from a great deal of weight. Mr Mitsotakis knew that, as he was well aware, when he spoke about unacceptable national concessions. And today Mr. Dendias comes from this Step in some of his important atrocities, and what does he say? "We have asked Northern Macedonia for the full implementation of the Prespecies Agreement." He said that from this one, the Step right here. And he added: "We've turned our back on the patriots" please! And I'm asking, is there anyone in this wing who feels ashamed? There's no word for Mr. Lazarides. Is there anyone who feels the need to save anything from the spirit of a party that post-politically tried to escape some dark aspects of her past? No one says he's going to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u58	Who are you? You apologise for the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Mitsotakis from this step four to five days ago said the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u60	You were talking about traitors. You guys are now traitors?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u61	Shall we go back? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u62	Please let us all calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u63	Easy, easy. Mr Mitsotakis from this step four to five days ago said: 'It is not my personal habit of involving national issues in political controversy'. Really? What's the political morale? Is something too flexible to adapt to the needs of the slogan or vote? Is that the political morale? And in his speech from here on the Step a year ago Mr Mitsotakis spoke about partyism, neglecting, he says, the state to serve the party. The unfortunate Mr. Father from Trikala now hears them, who said, "He fooled me, the Prime Minister lied to me", in the two narrows and his hair rises. Not to mention Mr. Diagnostic...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u64	I do not understand the reactions now and much more than speakers who will come up to Step immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u65	From this step, too, a year ago Mr. Mitsotakis spoke about the "government of taxes" and that he would come to save the middle class. Which of these taxes did Mr Mitsotakis abolish? Nobody! How did he save the middle class? From incomes EUR 17 000 to EUR 50,000 zero added and deducted what corresponds to the increase in insurance contributions. Someone must now, I say, save the middle class from her aspiring savior. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: those who direct this political behaviour and these moves I think they do not have much of a reputation for the Greek people, or rather do not regard it as a people, but a multitude of ammunition. Once General Condylis said: "If I knew exactly who the Greek people are, I would have done the coup since I was corporal." That's the perception of the Pontificate. Today, there is no need to make coups. Now he says to you: 'Who remembers what the Prime Minister said last year from this step.' Who remembers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u66	This is where you do not remember that you voted for a third memorandum!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u67	Listen! From this Step by Mr Mitsotakis announced, for those who know how to listen, the abolition of allowances. You need to learn to fish, Mr. Mitsotakis said, catch fish. No more benefits. It was sincere, something I have to confess. I'm coming to the investments now. Mr. Karamanlis isn't here. In the area chaired by Mr Karamanlis, the Public Investment Programme is 16% below all and 40% below the national strand. I personally have been prepared to propose to Mr Karamanlis and to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to tell you why. In announcing a renewal of a dangerous nature, the contract with TRAINOSE included investment and the fund for workers' wages. Is the wages paid by workers included in investment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Bored, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u69	And if so, if they are included, then the TRAINOSE that paid the employees during SYRIZA's governance, why did it not invest in Greece? In this sense, why has SYRIZA not invested in Greece and is the current government doing? It is therefore 46% lower than the national part of the programme. How will the government make investments and lever them when it takes away the national part of the Public Investment Programme? I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. This is where the Stepma today surfaced the issue of Acheloos' diversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u70	Say it so we can agree on something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u71	Let's agree on something, shall we? You have to agree with your colleague, though, who preceded the Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u72	He's from Larissa!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u73	Listen. There are judgments of the European Union, as well as judgments of the Greek courts. So who came back, brought back to the surface, and ordered Acheloos' diversion? The price of Kalamata olives is falling apart and there is a huge problem and no one is involved. And out of the blue, as you would say, Mr Lebanon, the issue of the Acheloos diversion is raised. He's telling you now, and where the...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u74	George, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u76	You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u78	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u79	I have been taken away from time by colleagues who have interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u80	What should Mr. Lebanese and you and I answer now? We can't let Acheloos divert. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u81	How can we determine the price of olive?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u82	I shall conclude, Mr President. The price of olives is falling apart and nobody cares, why does it say "Who will find out?" Producers will feel it. And after they feel it, they'll think. And after they think, they will decide differently than they decided in the last elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u83	Mr Kelles from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after a five-year period of instability, uncertainty and anti-development measures, the New Democracy Government introduces the 2020 budget on which the foundations are laid for a new and virtuous economic cycle. However, we must inform the citizens that, beyond the development dimension, the budget corrects budgetary gaps that the previous government has inherited for both 2019 and 2020, which are estimated at EUR 396 and 1050 million. I invoke numbers from the General Accounting Office of the State. And of course the fact that the country now has a realistic plan puts an end to miscalculations and thoughts. This is, of course, seen by the particularly positive response of the markets. The expensive part of the IMF loan of EUR 2.7 billion was repaid, while the 10-year bond rate was reduced to 1.5%, compared with 3.9% last March. And for the first time, a negative interest rate was created in the tenders of the quarterly interest rates in October and November. The country's credit rating agency "STANDARD & POOR" has also upgraded its credit rating capacity, while the economic climate index in Greece has exceeded that of the euro area, according to IOBE since July. The 2020 budget provides for growth for the country with an increase in GDP of 2.8%, while the primary surplus is estimated to be 3.58% of GDP, increased compared to the objective of enhanced supervision. Furthermore, it is estimated that in 2020 the general government debt will decrease by 14 percentage points compared to 2018, i.e. 167 % of GDP. Of course all this is happening because we are changing the mix of economic policy radically. On the one hand, we put an end to the irrationality of overtaxation and, on the other, we give back to taxpayers and businesses. And because Mr Baroness said that no tax has been reduced - as you have just said, Mr Baronessne - by the Government of New Democracy, I say to you a few of the many who have fallen: reductions in HPAI, improvement in the hundreds of twenty-dollars, total reduction in capital controls, reduction in the tax rate from 22% to 9%, reduction in income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24%, reduction in the tax on distributed profits from 10% to 5%, introduction of a low rate of taxation, Mr Vartenene, to 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes. Do I have to go on? Reduction of the tax advance. From the 55% you received him in the Samara government in 2015, you took him to 100%, and we reduce him to 95%. So all this, Mr Bored, is measures that increase incomes and improve the competitiveness of the economy. At the same time, we should point out that the revival of the economy as a whole combined with the reduction of unemployment and the creation of new jobs is supported by the change of targeting in the Public Investment Programme, the reconstruction of public administration and digital governance, and it interacts, i.e. it fuels and fuels, with all public policies. Here too, I would like to focus a little on agricultural production and, more generally, on the primary sector, which is the pillar of support and development of the Greek region. Firstly, our Government and in particular the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development in order to cover lost soil, does not run, but is galloping. Apart from the fact that their offices are open to the agricultural world, budget appropriations have been provided for the development and improvement of the production conditions, for the increase in value added and for the promotion of the export orientation of agricultural products, as well as for the maximum possible safety of products produced and for the use of CAP resources. In addition, a significant part of the appropriations will be allocated to assist farmers through RCFs and other programmes and through the financing of bodies and the coverage of the Special Guarantee Account for Agricultural Products. The Ministry's co-financed programmes of EUR 800 million will be implemented by the Public Investment Programme. All this, Mr Ministers, but let me, as a Member of Parliament, and a representative of the Thessaloniki camp and farms, point out to you, and above all to the Ministers for Infrastructure, the Environment and Rural Development, that we must immediately launch the completion of the Sykia dam and the water transport tunnel of its reservoir. The political will is a given one. However, since this work is not part of the ESRB, that is, the national energy and climate plan, the consultation of which is completed tomorrow, and because it is vital work to ensure the water resources of Thessaly and the lust, I call on you, Mr Ministers, not to allow the Desertification of Thessaly and to look into this matter quickly and responsibly, and of course I have no doubt that we will do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that we have legislated to increase the tax rate by EUR 1 000 per child, to grant the EUR 2 000 allowance for the birth of each child, to abolish the luxury tax on cars in tens of thousands over nine hundred and twenty-nine cubic metres and to subject infants to the low rate, to 13%. It is important because it practically supports the Greek family, which is the basis of our nation. On this basis we and we will support and support it, with a view to addressing the demographic problem of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is above all a patriotic budget. That is why we are voting for him, ensuring that the country moves to the new era of growth, optimism and national self-confidence in the New Democracy era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Mr. Ilhan Ahmet has the floor from the Change Movement and immediately after Mr. Panagis Capatos from New Democracy. There have been various internal changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The 2020 budget is a budget that comes from the past, challengingly turning its back into the future, and it has no difference from the budget in the SYRIZA last year. It looks like another year with a book of small and medium-sized enterprises, which records revenue and expenditure, without having any development vision and no connection to the major problems of modern societies. Of course, despite the election commitments made by the current government, it provides for a primary surplus of more than EUR 7 billion, with what this implies for growth. It is a socially unfair budget, since, once again, the main issues are small and medium-sized income groups, and this is not only because the widely advertised tax reliefs are not ultimately about the incomes of those who paid the highest price in the previous years, but also because the ratio of direct and indirect taxation remains too heavy, by harming the economically weaker ones. Ladies and gentlemen, development without the pretext of social justice and solidarity ends up serving the few, at the expense of many, the poor at the expense of the poor, the favoured of the system at the expense of its permanent balances. As I come from eastern Macedonia and Thrace, which is the poorest region of Greece, according to the official welfare indicators of EUROSTAT, I will be speaking today about the non-preferential citizens, those of our fellow citizens, who, unfortunately, have been able to get them out of the social margins of the past decade, in which they are again, unfortunately trapped. I come to our farmers, Mr Screka, in primary production which is the economic backbone of Rhodope. From the first moment the extensive problem arose from the necrotic impulse to the production of Rodopi tobacco, in 2018 - and it concerns all our citizens, tobacco producers - was indicated by all the co-responsible services as the safest way to compensate this, through the MAGP, i.e. state aid. The three conditions laid down by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the payment of compensation were firstly to have been a scientific study, secondly, to have assessed the cost of expenditure through a proportionate study and, thirdly, to have been issued, where the time and conditions for covering the risks included in the ELGA regulations were to be determined. That's what the law says. It should be noted that according to ELGA's service actors, with whom I had contacted, the extent of the reported damage, which was well above 30%, and the drought conditions in Rhodope at the end of March, which have favoured the development of the disease. At this point I am tabling the official official document of the Directorate-General for Regional Rural Economy and Veterinary Affairs, which refers to the serious epidemic. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Nevertheless, Minister, and although there is a public document certifying that all the formal conditions are met, no compensation has been granted to the affected Rhodope producers, only a horizontal compensation of EUR 100 from the de minimis programme, by the previous government, which, of course, had an appropriateness at that time, in view of the elections, which satisfied all the prefectures, but not the tobacco producers, of course. Mr Vorides, in a recent timely question tabled by the Step of the House, said that this political will exists. He said that if the conditions of the law are met, which I mentioned, if there are findings, we have all the goodwill to compensate tobacco producers. However, the fulfilment of the commitment of the Minister for Rural Development has not yet been implemented. You should know that I will not stop claiming this fair compensation until I see the government's promise to implement. Because otherwise there is also an economic distinction, Minister. In other words, not all conditions can be met in the county, there can be everything, but then we are not talking about political will, but we are talking about a distinction. Losing the social dividend, too, in my view is a major wound to our weakest economic fellow citizens in Thrace. Five out of six economically weak citizens will not get the social dividend and large losers are the low pensioners, the social income of solidarity and the long-term unemployed. I would like to bring you the anger about this injustice, especially for small farmers, with incomes of less than EUR 7 000 per year, who are all left out of this significant financial aid, which has been a great relief for the needs. Perhaps there should be provision for small farmers and small farmers who had incomes below EUR 7,000 and for the payment of the social dividend. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Rhodope Prefecture, and possibly other prefectures of northern Greece, are very close to the border with neighbouring Balkan states such as Bulgaria, and are hit by a massive outflow of exchange, and this entails a loss of millions for the state funds. It is therefore absolutely essential to implement the 2003 directive - I have a 2003 proposal - allowing a Member State to apply differentiated levels of taxation to fuel in certain geographical areas. In other words, there is a European precedent in Italy and Catalonia, you know. In other words, there may be two different prices, one for local residents, which, under the directive, is lower because of competition with Bulgaria, and a price for others, which come from other prefectures. The policy of a special fuel tax policy is needed in areas affected by competition, such as Bulgaria, and the whole world goes and puts its gasolines in the neighbouring country, which affects all gasolines and the national economy. I would really like to have the floor to optimize the future of our country, especially for the extreme Thrace of the major development deficits. However, the image that the policies of the new government have to date, unfortunately, do not let me believe that it will work for many, leaving the interests of the economic elites to a second degree, which is why I am voting against, together with my colleagues in the Group of the Parliamentary Party of Change, this budget that you are bringing before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Mr. Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs. Anagnostopoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are used to characterising the debate on the state budget as a top parliamentary procedure. After all, it could not be different since we set the objectives of the year and organise the way in which the state and the general government draw up economic policy. As far as the 2020 budget is concerned, he is at the same time a solution, a guarantee and an opportunity. It is a solution to the budgetary gap that has been inherited from the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government, which this budget covers. It is a guarantee that our country is being shielded institutionally, leaving the financial adventure it has experienced in the past. Finally, it presents us with the opportunity to manage our home rationally, by shaping the conditions for the development of an economic policy that is breathtaking for the citizens, especially those who in recent years have been hardest hit. In 2019, it was a milestone for Greece, since it was the first year of economic policy implementation, outside budgetary adjustment programmes. Especially in the second half of the year, both the increased confidence in the Greek economy and the acceleration of reform efforts are characteristic of a political environment completely different from that which we left behind on 7 July. The 2020 state budget highlights the key guidelines, which, as a majority, we are creating and we are implementing the country's governance. This is a radical shift in economic policy from over-taxation and disinvestment to growth. The restrictive policy of 2016-2018 and the high primary surpluses negotiated by the previous government with the lenders give their place in the policy that prioritises both employment and the increase in the available incomes of Greek citizens. The target for increasing growth with a conservative approach is set at 2.8% from 1.5% in the first half of 2019. The reduction of unemployment together with the reduction of rates of taxation on income is a recipe that will further stimulate economic activity. Finally, the achievement of the objective of a primary surplus of 3.5% and a total surplus of 1% are undeniably data giving the 2020 budget the character of the accelerator in our country's economic recovery. In view of the information I have given, of course, it is not enough to note that the 2020 budget covers the budgetary gap that the previous government has inherited us. On the contrary, we must stress that at the same time we are being given the opportunity to create a budget space capable of allowing us to significantly reduce tax rates, to increase public investment and to establish normality in our economic life. After all, this is a necessary treaty and a condition within the framework of the most fundamental of all our objectives, which are no longer the development of a smooth and healthy economic cycle for the coming years. However, let us see in practice some of the interventions we expect to have a positive footprint in the new year. We grant an allowance of EUR 2,000 for every child born as of 1 January 2020. We increase expenditure on public hospitals and primary health care by EUR 289 million in relation to estimated payments in 2019. We suspend VAT on new buildings, as well as real estate gains tax for three years. These are only a few of the planned interventions that will give breath to our country, Kefalonia and Ithaca. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the budget to put an end to the policy of overcrowding, as well as the pursuit at the same time of what is possible to achieve the surplus target, are points which have been often said in this Chamber and I do not need to be repeated. However, despite the positive points that the Greek economy now incorporates, we should in no way ignore the unexplained and inexplainable excess that has been observed in the period 2016-2018. This is a period during which 11.4 billion euros were deducted from the economy, the outstanding debts of the taxpayers to the public were increased, while the excessive tax burden on taxpayers and the Greek economy were borne, became strongly and fully understood. The removal of this unpleasant experience opens up the 2020 budget, provided that government policy monitors it systematically and coordinates. Of course, there is no need to have any doubt about that. The preparation at the programme level of the New Democracy as an opposition officer and its first samples of writing as the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis are the best proof of self-evidentness, namely that, with hard work, knowledge and continuous evaluation, we can and are better worthy of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Ms. Anagnostopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately after Mrs. Kefaliannis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we started yesterday to discuss a budget which confirms what we had known in the election process, but also what we saw in the first few months of New Democracy's governance. You have deceived and divided the Greek people on all matter and in economic terms, both in political and cultural terms. You deceived and divided, creating a sense of an imaginary middle-class, ripped off from any social reference to her. Low layers against the middle class. Even a little kid eight-year-old knows one thing. There can be no middle class without the low layers reinforced. That's the alpha and the omega. What do we see in both the budget and what you have done so far? That not only do you not strengthen the middle-class, but you create the conditions, to have a crisis, as we had before 2010, that is, a fall in the social state. The allowances that the SYRIZA government tried to pay in the middle of a memorial to give were not crumbs. The benefits set up a social state that never existed in Greece. Mr Charakopoulos said, with a dramatic style for demographics - because we were together in the polling committee, we called foreign scientists from Finland, France, etc. and they insisted on one thing - that it is not resolved without a strong social state. And I ask: With the EUR 2 000 - well, well - which is given to every child born - and that is what is being played - can the demographic problem be solved if we do not have family allowances on a permanent basis if we do not have support for young people with rent benefits, if we do not have what is recommended by the welfare state, what the middle-class needs to be able to do? These are not in the budget. Second, public space. Public space is public universities, public hospitals. Without them, too, there can be no middle class. I will not go into detail, but if we take just the first samples of education, how the universities are privatised slowly, we will understand a lot of things. How public education, public higher institutions, have been designated as enemies of the state. Asylum, young people who are violating and all that. All of this constitutes things that endanger both the low layers and the middle class. I am not going to talk about LEADER, I am not going to talk about research, because it seems that the budget for education has been increased a little while, while a lot of money has been cut off from the research that has been carried out in the Ministry of Development. I'm going to put a little asterisk, because I'm getting caught by the inexperienced for this "you've deceived and divided". I'm getting caught by shoppers. The current Prime Minister and then the President of the opposition officer gave infinite interviews, that it will be reduced to the focus and drinks that the bad SYRIZA government has not done. They're shouting now - they're using the term - that you cheated them. You're reducing the budget for the OAED. Our government had to deal with the most important thing, which all scientists consider to be a mortal trauma to the body of society: unemployment. One cannot talk about a recovery in the economy, about support for medium-sized groups, without first addressing and solving the unemployment issue. You have deceived and divided on another major issue, the refugee - immigration. I will not say what you said, because the Greek people have heard them in numerous times. I will say that this did not allow you to make a policy, it did not allow you to have a strategy for a major problem - for a major situation, I would say, and not a problem, for a major reality - because you were trapped in ideologies, you were trapped in trying to divide the Greek people that SYRIZA calls on illegal immigrants. And now we are in a phenomena of closed structures that deprive us of money from the European Union, even in the militarisation of the issue. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] But here, we have something more important. Still in the New Democracy, we hear people talk about imperialism. And not any human being. Involved in seriousness in the New Democracy. You will only allow me two minutes, Mr President, on the subject of foreign policy. I heard Mr. Dendia very carefully. I wish all this had been heard a few months ago. That's where you deceived and divided the Greek people. And I won't say about the Prespes, what was said here and how almost the opposition then called us traitors, I won't say what happened on the streets. I'll say one thing: your opposition to the Prespecies for me covered something very important. He covered the complete lack of strategy of the New Democracy, the complete lack of reading of geopolitical reality. Incapacitated in the doctrine of inertia and impoverishment - because this was the doctrine of the New Democracy for many years - it was suspiciously seen that a new government took over to solve problems at last. And we have now reached the major issue of Greek-Turkish. We never, but never - and the President, Alexis Tsipras, said so - say so, all the Members and members of the SYRIZA - no matter how much we disagree, we are not going to ring someone as a national traitor when he is a democrat. From there on, things change, because we know who betrayed this country. So, from us you will never hear such a thing as we have heard. Patriot cavern doesn't exist. But there is criticism. And I ask: I didn't hear it from Mr. Treasury. He said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u91	You used that terminology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u92	But we're taking time. There are other colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u93	Okay. I'm talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u94	You personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u95	So, we're not going to use a paedophile. But we also have criticism of what we're going to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u96	You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u97	...because that's democracy. And foreign policy is a matter of transparency and democracy, not of things that must not be said, and so on. And we will say that this lack of strategy of the New Democracy has cost her much in the first few months. I will not go back to what Mr Mitsotakis said or what he did not say at meetings with Erdogan and so on. I'll say one thing. I will say that the sanctions for us are heavy diplomatic paper. Because Turkey is currently involved in a geopolitical system, which we must read very carefully. I won't expand. So we have to be present on the field of diplomatic matters. In Berlin too, we should also be present at EastMed, which cuts off the 'blue country' and particularly sanctions. It's a tool...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u98	You must finish, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u99	I will conclude by saying this: we are pleased that Mr. Dendias condemned patriocope and inappropriate foreign policy. We'll be here to criticize. And if you really want to take foreign policy seriously, what Greece will do in defence is a matter that can be discussed at the Ministry of National Defence. Your friendly media to have headlines for defensive terms of involvement, etc., is not a debate this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u100	Mrs. Kefaliannis has the floor, and then Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country leaves behind the harsh decade of the crisis and 2019 is the year that marks the end of this painful time for the country. However, it also marks another major change: the decision of the Greek citizens to go with realism and wisdom, with an absolute feeling that deceitful and idealism have cost far more than the enormous budgetary pressures we have received, optimistic for the future, but always looking at the new, great challenges of the times. The geopolitical instability in the Eastern Mediterranean region, the uncertainty in the Balkans, Turkish provocation, Brexit creates a new international burden on the country, against which Europe itself has not yet developed the policies it needs. In this environment Greece is called upon to play its part, to stand up to the circumstances of strong and self-powered, proving that the crisis is getting stronger, turning the difficult circumstances into an opportunity to face, with confidence, any new challenge. The 2020 budget serves precisely that perspective. It captures the objectives for which the new government has committed itself, with specific economic policies designed to find an impact on society within a modern state, flexible and effective, serving the citizen, the professional, the investor in terms of integrity and transparency. Because the fifthness of our government policy is an effective economic policy with more social justice. In this direction, the new budget incorporates measures for direct stimulation of the market and investment, measures - one-ways to create more jobs and increase the income of all citizens, with immediate implementation of privatizations and strengthening liquidity, a fair reduction in taxes and contributions for employees, professionals, businesses and farmers, with an additional tax-free amount of EUR 1,000 for every child who is still an important measure to overturn the country's large demographic problem. It is a mixture of policy that creates conditions of stable development, at the same time as benefiting all income layers, with emphasis on the lowest. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has been at the heart of a major crisis since 2010 as the weakest link in the Eurozone. We have been at a difficult crossroads, influenced by the scourge of populism that has increased over all these dark years. Greece has become an example to avoid, at the same time as an entire people have been targeted as ever post-war. The 2020 budget marks the end of this painful time, which, however, leaves the deep wounds behind. It leaves behind a generation found either leaving home for a better future or locking its hopes in wages of EUR 500, a generation that inherits an extremely disproportionate burden with the insurance system. Our concern and priority should be to break this dead-end vicious circle, to make a new deal between generations in a rational and fair way, ensuring a decent standard of living for older people, but also to improve the standard of living of young people. This can be done by increasing the number of jobs as well as the quality of jobs. Because higher wages also mean higher contributions, it also means investment in the new generation, so that it can once again start planning its future in the home country with development budgets that put the burden on the removal of injustice between generations, supporting young people with measures and motivating them with resources from national or European. This is the greatest challenge for all of us, working hard to win the big bet of the new generations. Ladies and gentlemen, the government aims and will succeed in making the country strong again in Europe and internationally. Magic solutions don't exist. However, as the 2020 budget shows, there was readiness and a plan that was realistic. But the dangers continue. Problems didn't disappear. There are still a need for brave political initiatives. That is why we need vigilance, and the government needs to continue to implement its commitments for political and social stability, for development with social justice. With perseverance and hard work Greece again turns its gaze with pride in the new era as an equal member of the European Union, with a strong voice and a key role in the international events. The climate is changing, expectations are increasing, the country is reintroducing normality and security. Requirements are getting bigger. Greece can and should be leading in the new decade that dawns in a few weeks. To lead with transparency, justice and national self-confidence. We want, we believe, to fight for a Greece that defends the safety of citizens, the fairness of the country, the well-being of the nation. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like the floor to ask Mr Dogsky a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u104	Let me make an announcement to this House first. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Drama High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Chakatus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u105	I will comment that as soon as I asked why I asked to ask a question about Mr. Psulakakis, Mr. Psulakakis got up and left. Mr Skokakakis, when Mr Boris spoke, said that we "removed ENPIA". I want you to confirm the following elements: First, is it or is it not true that in the 2019 budget we had 260 reductions in the EMS? Is it or is it not true that 2019 became a law? Is it or is it not true that you add 205 million and that in Table 3,8 in the budget you now get 170 million back, which is for the objective values that will increase? So, can you confirm, before you say big words about HNPH, that your own contribution to the Government of New Democracy is 205 that you have put, minus 142, is making us 63 million? In other words, I want confirmation that your own contribution to all the reduction that the citizens will see for the ENPI is only 63 million. If I've made a mistake, you'll fix me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Pylacakis is here now. Will you respond, Mr. Undersecretary? Did you hear the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, he has not heard the question. However, with all due respect - and I am pleased to hear Mr Tsakalotou's questions - there is no procedure for such questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Levant, if the Minister wants a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u109	He hasn't heard the question, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u110	That is why I ask Mr. Dogsky if he has heard the question or if he has been informed. Otherwise, to agree, the procedure is correct. The parliamentary representative may ask for the floor for something that a Minister said, not just as soon as he said it, but also for a few hours later. The Minister may answer a few hours later, so we can be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u111	The Undersecretary has been in the morning since the time the question was asked had to come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u112	It happened. That's not what we're talking about. If Mr. Skolakis wants to answer that question, he can answer it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, Mr Vessiropoulos has brought me the question from Mr Vessiropoulos. I'll say a few words about HISBIA. First, we put things in place. At the moment, the EMCDDA has fallen by 22%. 12% of the reduction comes from a decision of our own government. This decision has been implemented. However, the figures in the budget do not have to do with the percentages of reductions, for a very simple reason. Because his income has increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u114	I'm talking about Table 3.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u115	We therefore have a serious increase in the collection of HPAI, which we only record in part in the budget. It will be recorded in the next phase. As far as next year is concerned, we are talking about a correction that your own government had undertaken as a prerequisite to do and did not complete it. She's still in prerequisites. And this correction that is right to be made, that is to say everyone paying on the basis of their real real estate and not fictitiously, will proceed from the government. It will bring additional revenues and a large part of these additional revenues, the overwhelming one, will return back to the citizens with additional coefficient reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Skakakis answered, Mr. Besiropoulos. I understand, but let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u118	But I won't do more than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u119	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u120	Mr Colleague, you are right that you have legislated for a 30% reduction in ownership of up to EUR 260 million. This, of course, never happened in practice. Our government has also made legislation for the first time, and thus reduced clearing houses have been seen by the citizens, the property owners, with the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Second, what do we do? What's the difference? Your measure was EUR 260 million and our EUR 465 million. What is the difference of EUR 205 million? We did exactly the same, for property up to EUR 60,000 a 30% reduction. From there on, for property up to 70,000 euros 27% reduction of HNVIA, for property up to 80,000 euros 25% reduction of HNVIA, for property up to EUR 1 million 20% reduction of HNVIA and for property of more than 1 million euros 10% reduction of HNVIA. Intermodal reduction of ENVY 22%, plus 205 million euros. And why did we do that? Because we have also given those who have the middle-owned reduction of HISPIA, while all these years with your policy, you have pissed them off. You poored her in the middle class. And what's the middle class you come and you're talking about now all the time? Now you've found out. What's the middle class? The one who pays the additional tax from EUR 300,000 to EUR 200,000 is more than tripling the tax rates of the additional tax. That's what we did for all of them. We were reducing HISPIA for all assets by supporting the poor fortune first and then the medium-sized property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Vésyropoulou, I want to say this. One minister answered. The other one doesn't have to answer and give another tone. And secondly, I'm sorry now, but what argument is that it never happened? That's how things happen in politics. You make a law and when it comes to the time for the law to be applied...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u122	I'm sorry, Mr. President, what are you doing now? As a State Secretary, I had to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u123	I do what I have to do, because, Mr. Besyropoulou, you have taken the floor and you know it, let go of it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Make a reproach to the Bureau. Mr. Besyropoulou, sit down. If you have a problem with the Bureau, ask for something for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u124	This is unprecedented, Mr President. Do you presiding and express an opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u125	Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u126	The State Secretary responsible answered for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u127	After the Minister had answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u128	He didn't answer at all. The 3 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u129	Let's not go on. That's solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u130	Leave it for the objective. It's another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u131	If you don't know arithmetic, it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u132	I think it's a little provocative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u133	Let's calm down now. Whatever it was to be said, it was said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u134	There's an increased...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Besyropoulou, how do you take the floor on your own?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u136	...is it hard?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u137	Nothing's hard. You were thrown away and said about me when I just said the parliamentary procedure. Let's get this over with. Let's move on. Here you go, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Chakatte, wait a minute. I think that there has been an intensification without any real reason. He asked a question the way he put it. You allowed him, Mr President, to put it. You've asked this question before. It's been answered many times. In other words, it is a dialogue that we have been having in it for several weeks now on the subject of ENPIA. Mr President, because I have heard you a few times before, I believe that your word is useful. Indeed, you are getting more into the substance of the matter and you are saying a phrase above, which is usually in the direction of taking the passions down. I think there has been a debate. Excessive answers were given. Let's not extend it. There's a nice conversation going on. All MPs from all parties are placed. I think we can move on without any other tension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u139	I cannot understand the tension when the Bureau has not entered into the substance of the matter. He got into the process of the matter, how the law is done and how the law is implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u140	We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u141	That's it. It's over. We all know that, and I hope those who didn't know about it, too. We've had a lot of time. We didn't eat time, of course, from Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u142	You know, Mr President, what has just been heard about HUNGARY, if anything, at best, only laughter should be caused to those who are listening to us or seeing us or seeing this calladic confrontation. Because the Minister spoke with the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman about an unfair tax which everyone condemns, but all the rulings keep it with alterations, of course, in the government. For the 2020 budget and through our rapporteurs we have stressed that the 2020 budget also goes on with the implementation of the anti-grass budget targets, HISPIA, for example, implemented by all previous budgets of all governments either SYRIZA or formerly New Democracy - PASOK etc., regardless of individual differences, in order to serve the strategic direction of strengthening capitalist development that all urban parties accept. And the main parameter in serving this strategy is the pressing of so-called non-wage costs, which also includes costs for people's health - welfare, in order to further reduce the price of labour to achieve the objectives of competitiveness and the reinvigoration of profitability of business groups. And in areas such as health and welfare, over time, this policy is being promoted through the even greater exemption of capital and state from the cost of health services, insurance and at the same time the complete transformation of health into a golden field of profitability for business groups. Thus, the new cuts to the cuts in the state health funds in recent years - welfare and the continued reinforcement of their logistics confirm that the infamous development for all and the regularity of the New Democracy, such as before the fair development of SYRIZA, does not even fit the most basic needs of the workers and the people. The state health and welfare expenditure shown in the new budget, as in previous budgets, is limited to financing a minimum basic package for everyone, contrary to the current popular needs and the possibilities currently available from the achievements of science and technology, while at the same time strengthening the time a growing proportion of expenditure on the operation of hospitals, primary health care in the insured and insurance funds themselves. The reduction of the total state expenditure by EUR 182 million for 2020 added to the huge reductions in the last few years, despite a 3% increase in GDP forecast, does not in any event mean that the workers who are the creators of wealth are going to gain something in health, welfare, medicine. Indeed, the government at the same time as maintaining the abolition of the EEIG's State funding at the same level as the previous SYRIZA's EUR 100 million in order to mislead and capture the people, shows the increase in the ceiling for the EEA's budget for medicines, extra-surface medical operations, etc., as a result of the increase in GDP, when this increase in the threshold comes from an increase in insurance contributions of 4.1%. Indeed, will workers and poor people or pharmaceutical companies and health entrepreneurs benefit from this increase, because they will pay less discounts and refunds? Will participation in drugs be abolished? Will the drug lists fully paid by patients be abolished or, for example, will payments for physiotherapies be abolished and go by saying? Reduction of hospital funding leaves no room for any upgrades in the care of the people. On the contrary, we will continue the current miserable situation, the shrinking and degradation of services, the closed beds of the ICM, the closed sections, the ranches and the huge waiting lists for treatments, examinations, surgery and say, hires with elastic employment relationships, the sanitization and intensification of health work. Of course, in the budget, despite periodic announcements, it is not clear how much the recruitment of permanent staff in the field of health will be, since the increase in expenditure on wages, as shown in the budget, by 29 million, relates to maturities and insurance contributions. At primary health care, the need to cover prevention, treatment and rehabilitation services remains growing throughout the 24-hour period for three hundred and sixty-five days a year, while at the same time there remains the need to make - in the light of the particular circumstances of each area, of all ages, of all populations - the development of health centres, multi-medical hospitals, decentralised doctorates, mobile units and their interconnection with family, schools, schools, nurseries, nursing stations, homes, etc. What is to be upgraded is, in fact, the business function of the public hospitals, in order to have revenues, their adaptation to the efficiency and efficiency criterion, which concerns not only the control of costs, but, as stated in the draft budget report, also the possibilities for further developing the business activity of the operators and increasing their revenues. [[The President-in-Office occupies the third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU.]] It is precisely the commercialisation of health services and their business function, such as through partnerships with the private sector, that weaken, eliminate the uniform nature of the health system. Self-contained health units are strengthened, their unregulated development, since profit determines what and where will be developed and not what are the needs of the people. Thus, the patient, his family, are forced under their own responsibility - on their own initiative, individually, to seek solutions and not as the health system itself should be fully and free to deal with health problems. Both the objectives and the criteria for the formation of state health spending - welfare by the Government of New Democracy are commensurate with what the previous SYRIZA government has used. In fact, their strategic matching also appears from the government's assessment of the government in the state budget's report, where the inhibitors of economic growth in Greece include the delays of structural reforms and of health - welfare, which are implemented independently, who governs. As it is, for example, the business operation of public health services for years, the application of therapeutic diagnostic protocols as cutting tools, the functioning of RAN SA, the application of diagnostic homogeneous categories, the DRGs. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speech time of the F Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Really, did the SYRIZA government not impose the pension health charge on pensions, 750 million a year? The New Democracy keeps the raisin. SYRIZA cutbacks. The New Democracy keeps them. The government of Kyriza maintained the abolitions and mergings of hospitals, hospital beds, maintained and strengthened AEMY S.A., maintained the subscribing, strengthened the overthrow of labour relations. The New Democracy keeps it. The ‘hand washing the other and both the over-profits of capital! That's who you are! I shall conclude, Mr President. So, in the face of the constant deterioration and exacerbation of health problems, as a result of the policies, these policies are a great challenge towards the people to be presented as a solution to the present disgraceful situation, to be presented as a healing, that is, the drug that has reached us here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u144	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is just as challenging as SYRIZA's attempt to present this anti-popular policy, which he himself promoted and deepened as a government, calling on the people to reconcile with the present dreadful system, with the threat that it will become even worse than the measures promoted by the New Democracy, as a continuation and escalation of the policy he has served. That is why the people must, on the one hand, reject this attack and dangerous health projects, not compromise the policy that is constantly increasing the gap between the health services provided and the enormous opportunities offered today by science and technology and, on the other, strengthen the fight for a state-of-the-art welfare system, a universal, modern and absolutely free system, based on meeting its needs and not on the profits of capital, that is, on the one hand, its exploiters. It's up to him. We are therefore voting against the budget, Mr Premier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u145	Mr Dimitris Vartzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a classic question in the preparation of the budgets, which, at least since the time of the Wilson presidency in the United States, has also referred to the Guns or Butter emblematic dilemma, 'weapons or butter', social policy or equipment. It is clear that most rich European countries have decided, for a long time, to 'butter' and to an extremely positive extent. They are, essentially and almost exclusively, strengthening social services at the expense of their troops. Unfortunately, that is not possible for us. The Eastern advisor is specific and is constantly present. The Islamic authoritarian regime in Erdogan, unfortunately, disguises our timeless and intergroup hopes that a European course in Turkey could lead to a friendly neighbourhood. The positions of the European Christian Democrat and European Liberals that Turkey cannot belong to Europe are confirmed on a daily basis. This means that we may have a substantial diplomatic aid and support at international and European level, but in fact, militaryly it is very difficult to help. This is because, as we have said, the European Union is militaryly inadequate. NATO may, as President McCron said, not be brain-dead, but surely it's quadruple, surely paralyzed. The United States of Trump is changing politics, at least as far as Turkey is concerned, every five minutes. What does that mean? It means we're on our own. This means that the defence budget is right to follow the traditional way of strengthening the country's military preparedness. But let us be careful, ladies and gentlemen, this. We have a great army for our population data, a confiscation army, and we're good. This means that we have a lot of ruthless costs, mainly payroll. It is advisable to support natonic logic by maintaining at least 20% of the total cost of expenditure on equipment. This means that we may have to increase the total amount of expenditure. Of course, all the things that we voted on the day before yesterday, the upgrading of the Air Force, support for the submarines, the creation of an even elementary defence industry, is on the very right track. As also on the very right road is that natural receivers of equipment of time will be twice as high as this year. But if, friends and friends, it is necessary to maintain our defence capacity, it is equally necessary to have 'butter'. We must also have a real social policy. It is also necessary to protect those layers which are threatened by social exclusion. We talked about it in the tax bill. They are those people, those layers that have been severely taxed. It is those who are paid below the OECD average. It is those who pay far more taxes than many more rich people and even have a basket of households that is more expensive than many wealthy countries in Europe. In order to support all of this, and defence spending and social expenditure, we need revenue. Hence growth is now necessary now or never. That is why it is necessary, and it is necessary for all these budgetary measures, where tax burdens are substantially lightened for individuals, so that their purchasing power can also be strengthened for entrepreneurs, so that they can hire staff and produce more. All this, along with the administrative measures to alleviate the companies we have voted on in the development process, creates a strong foundation for aid and investment and business. In addition to the revenue, however, we also have expenditure and expenditure. We must therefore ensure that these costs are taken into account. Don't lose a penny. To have full control, rationalisation, allocation of resources. That's why I'm saying good for the government! For the first time, in six pilot fields and from 2022 onwards, the entire budget will be structured and controlled, in terms of its implementation, on the basis of key performance indicators, key performance indicators, which will enable the funding of the programmes and also of the institutions to depend exclusively on their performance, so that the policy pursued now has a basis for the given experience. I make a request and an observation. It is good that this year's seventh field of application of key performance indicators is the pro-active policy. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the level of total social expenditure, on the basis of OECD figures, our country is close to the average. We are not like the Scandinavians and the French, but we are very close to the Germans, the Austrians and the Belgians. But be careful. If one sees the finest letters, one will see that a large part of these social costs are the transferable budget payments to cover pensions while they go to social services. What does that mean here? It means that we must now build a coherent social policy and that is only possible on the basis of minimum guaranteed income. Therefore, it is necessary, firstly, to rationalise the pro-racial and economic and disability benefits and to link them to income and simplify them, secondly, the everything-in-kind benefits granted in kind to be replaced by cash benefits, so that market laws work, thirdly, to have a second chance for bankrupt SMEs and, fourthly, all of this constitutes a coherent policy that will be implemented by a service, for example OPEKA. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that only growth guarantees the country's armour from the outside task and from tolerance. We need guns and butter. That is the essence of our policy. This is the patriotic and folklore essence of our ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u147	Please come to Stepma, Mrs. Rallia Christidou, from SYRIZA. Before I give you the floor, let me tell you this: they have said, ladies and gentlemen, that you will have been informed - two hundred and six colleagues to speak, and we are still in the 20th sixth. It'll take over 30 hours. So you realise that we have to keep the working hours so that we do not blame the Members who are to the end. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government continues to annul its election promises. The budget provides for tax relief for your strong and rich friends, for profitable businesses. For the low and medium-incomes, we do not hear a word. For the injurious business, not a word. Eight out of ten will not receive a single euro from those who took a social dividend last year. And you know why? Because when the ETUC is reduced by those who have real estate over a million euros, who don't tell them of course and middle class, where to make money? When gifts are given to UAE owners for expensive contracts, where is the tax of 45% going to 22%, where to make money? When you reduce the rate from 28% to 24% for one-off businesses rather than progressively, as SYRIZA said, in order to benefit 2.5% of the companies that have more money? Let's go to the social state as well. In a total of 1,18 billion positive measures, in the social state it is only 123 million, while all the others concern tax reductions only for those who have. Alternatively, instead of reducing rates, you could choose to abolish a solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000. Instead, you have chosen to direct a significant part of the budget to low and medium-income, instead of doing what, which is low and medium-income, which are the ones that consume most of their income. Instead of directing a significant part of the budget in that direction, you have chosen exactly the opposite direction. Is that how you think income inequalities are handled? Is that how you think private consumption will increase? No, of course, because you just don't care about that. And, really, how do you suppose, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in the budget that unemployment will fall? How do you assume in the budget that wages will increase? By abolishing collective agreements? By not anticipating an increase in the minimum wage? Is that right? That way? And let us remember that in 2019, the year before the SYRIZA government implemented, the average wage had an increase of 4.35%. You are to adopt a policy for work that aims to reduce wages and then assume a completely unfounded increase in wages. On this basis, build him up, otherwise, a credible 2020 budget. And in the past, which hurt Greek women and Greeks, it seriously hurt the Greek people, you had implemented this mixture of politics. And in the past, you had reduced wages over a night aimed at growth and all you could do was bring chaos. I'm on it. Following the reductions in innovative allowances for AME minus 173 million, family allowances minus 139 million, rental allowances minus 51 million and all this confirms what we have been saying for some time, that the large tank of 3.5 million created by the SYRIZA government, setting up a new state of provision with transparency, with justice, is that tank will be subjected mainly to the extinctions to cover possible gaps in the Ministry of Labour. Even the EUR 2000 allowance for each child is hopeful. However, this is not on the basis of calculations, and that is why you have had to admit that you will break it in two and three instalments and that it will be given a period of budgetary closeness. So the way you choose to save our resources so strongly reminds us of the time of the memorials. For example, the excessive reduction in the category ‘purchase of goods and services’, what will it cause? Will it not cause public deficits and problems? Will it not cause shortcomings and problems in the functions of the state? These include purchases of pharmaceutical materials and vaccines, purchases of writings, purchases of heating fuels, costs of cleaning services. You choose to abandon important public obligations vis-à-vis the citizens and this gap, of course, you want to replace it - with the uninjurious always - with the private sector. Especially in health your proposal to introduce private-public partnerships (PPCs) in hospitals clearly demonstrates your way and availability to turn public and free health into private interests, private interests that will be paralysed in them, as they have done in the past. In education, we have a reduction in the financing of HEIs, a closure, the establishment of a tuition fee, always for the benefit of individuals. In the investigation, while during the SYRIZA, a continuous increase in funding for research was recorded, as soon as the portfolio was transferred to the Ministry of Development and Investment, it is reduced to lower levels than that of 2017. So what did you mean, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you were speaking electorally about opportunities for young people for the wrongful middle class, about the significant improvement of their income situation? Did you mean that the vast majority of employees and pensioners will not actually see any improvement, that in your budget all the unfair taxes - twenty-nine the number - except for the corporate profits tax? Unfortunately, you have not learned from the huge mistakes of the past and you come to repeat them with increased carelessness, with cynicism seen in your recent written specimens with the Deputy, Governors and other excellent political life, who as a basic qualification had the political influence and the votes in your favour and for the position they took, they didn't even have the formal qualifications and thus show your true face, that person of the right state, that person that only took six months to reveal it. You have nothing to do with the real problems of the country. You don't care about those who get borrowed to pay their PPC and make them brainwashed by election that they belong to the middle class. I'm closing, Mr. President. Against this hypocrisy, we and society stand. We, who are envisioning a free society, with equality, with brotherhood, with rights, with progress, with social justice, with concepts that are truly unknown to you, but not unknown to the Greek people, who day after day sees clearly who really cares about his well-being and who is not. And you, with this budget here, clearly show that you don't have a snitch on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Yannis Loverdos is called in Stepma from New Democracy. Then Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou will have the floor from Mera25. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to begin by congratulating Mr Dimitris Varzopoulou, my good friend, because he has spoken from breasts and not from a manuscript, as the Rules of Parliament provide, and I hope that all three hundred Members of Parliament will speak from breasts, because what they have to say is here. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget is the top piece of legislation that Parliament spends every year, as you all know. And as you can see, this bill actually includes the ideological position of the government - it is of course that, which is why it has been elected - but at the same time a rationalisation is also included, a realism that is comparable to the country's financial data. I personally hope that this budget, which is in the direction promised by the New Democracy - and that is why it has been voted - on election, namely to develop and strengthen entrepreneurship and private investment. It's the first step. I hope in the next few years that the New Democracy Government - and I hope in seven years now we will discuss the eighth budget for its term - has brought about a great change in the way our society operates, because there are great national risks facing our country. The budget is not only aimed at the wellbeing of the people of that country. He can have him in other countries, which are more secure and without the great risks that Greece faces. Greece, however, has much greater risks than most European countries, bad lies. For me too, the major issue, which I see to be the embodiment of Mr Mitsotakis and many colleagues in the New Democracy, is demographics. With horror - I do not know how many of you have been following the data recently announced by ELSTAT - we have seen that in Greece since 2011, eight years later, deaths have been by thirty-five to 40 thousand more than births. This means that 2060 - not far from now - combined with the Brain Drain that continues, unfortunately, the population of this country will have fallen to eight million inhabitants and not only this, it will be an ageing population. Over half will be sixty-five years old and over. As you can see, in such a country, there is neither a pension system nor a entrepreneurship nor a real economy. So now, at five and five, because we are no longer in nothing but five, the demographic problem in combination with Brain must be the major issue, which should not be a MP, no minister, no Prime Minister letting him sleep at night. It is the major national risk. The population of Greece, unfortunately, is ageing and what is dying. We don't want that. We want there to be a strong Greece, a Greece that creates. This is my vision, and for this vision I was caught in the last elections with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, whom I personally - and I imagine many others - consider as the country's last hope to reverse the course, this dangerous path that has been taken. Let me give you just one characteristic example, because we have been talking over the last few days too much about the Turkish risk, which is a real one. Of course he is. You know that in 2060 the Greeks, as I said, will be eight million, half of whom over sixty-five. The Turks will be a hundred twenty million, of which over half will be less than forty years old. This and only the demographic problem shows how dangerous the course we have taken for the country is. And in this they don't have ideological pretexts, ideologies, party contours. We are all in this Chamber, all care for the future of our country, for the future of our country, whether they are left-wing or right-wing. In the same country we will live, we will not live in another country. But in this country, how will we live if our population dies? That is the big question, and that is why I think that at some point, as we have achieved with the vote on the results, we should be able to be more consensual in this Chamber, so that we can understand and agree on certain key lines. I'm not hiding you that I'm a liberal. Indeed, I am liberal and I want more privatisation, more private investment, greater - more entrepreneurship, even much smaller taxes than the recent tax bill and the budget. I wish we could do huge tax reforms! That is what I want, but, as I said, we must also be realistic. We're still not ready for that. But that doesn't mean I'm against the social benefits that they need. Where they need, but not for everyone! Not everyone working or not finding work on purpose and getting and living with benefits! He can't live a country with allowances, with salaries of civil servants and pensions alone! I wish we had that opportunity, but we don't! That is why I think we can also agree with SYRIZA's friends, because we are all here - I repeat - Greeks. We have different perceptions. You want more benefits, more intervention of the state. Okay, in some things we can disagree with, but in others, we can figure it out. And what unites us, and not what separates us, must be our opinion, so that we can face the great national risks ahead of us, unfortunately. I, as far as my potential is concerned, will do everything possible to find a national common component to tackle the major national risks. I urge all of us to support this government, not because it is the Government of the New Democracy, but because it is the Government of Greece! Be well! Merry Christmas to those I never see again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, especially for keeping time. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou now has the floor and Mrs Friday Brysidou from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is now to be measured both by the government's very recent election commitments and by the overall policy of the New Democracy in the field of public finances. From theory and promises, that is, we are now going to the area of reality and verification control. One of the main points of the New Democracy rhetoric in recent years has been the management of primary surpluses. To highlight things in their real dimension, you have little or no idea that you were the most favourite children of the troika than SYRIZA, that as neoliberals you are ideologically and politically coincided with lenders and that for these reasons you would have a different approach to the question of renegotiation of primary surpluses. You showed it to the Greek people about as something pre-aggregated behind closed doors, a supposedly grand result of your preparation to rule. Of course, we would be naive to believe that all these leaks and reassurances were something other than light summer novels for vulnerable people's consumption. The very lenders, whom you handed over both the knife and the melon, with the same willingness and the same study that the Danish king handed over his crown to the Germans in 1940, have interrupted you repeatedly since the beginning of your administration and you have suddenly changed the motto. Those who were urgent and well - agreed were referred to the Roman bells without a second conversation. You would reduce the primary surpluses of 3.5% immediately, and now you are saying that 2022 will be reduced to 2%. In any case, the memorandum provides that from 2022 to 2060, in other words for thirty-nine years, the objective of the primary surpluses is to be reduced to 2.2%. So carbons, and your election treasure! Carbon and the seriousness of your staff, which have not been caged for the impact of the unprecedented strangulation of the national economy, because historically no European country has kept a primary surplus of more than 1.9% for a decade, and in our case we are talking about a total of half a century of outrageous surpluses in an economy that is already rugged. What does that practically mean? It means permanentization of the austerity and status of the debt-sharing regime. It means new loans to cover state costs for the social and prosperous state, since savings to cover surpluses and to satisfy creditors will continuously produce an internal payment deficit. Even worse, it means further crushing the social and prosperous state. The middle and low layers and the country itself will continue to suffocate international and domestic Golden Boys and your chosen businessmen, who, instead of a lentil plate, will take the lion's share in the form of privatisations. After all, in the field of labour and taxation you have already given your credentials, as BSE dictates and you legislate. In your schedule there are only your powerful homobanks. In Merra25, we were speaking in the election, and we are talking repeatedly about the issue of the unacceptable advance payment of tax, which poses huge problems for the stabilisation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals. We didn't see any of this happening. On the other hand, you are reducing taxation on distributed stock profits, but without a reinvestment clause or even without any new staff. In the taxation of legal persons you artificially hide the great asterisk, that more than 60% of enterprises are already injurious. Your tax exemptions therefore concern the few, the already and the possessors. But apart from the big businessmen, you have been in great importance and above the restoration of the blue political children of the party tube. The expensive and clear administrative coordination, the financial overpowering of the offices of ministers and Secretary-General, the presidency of the government with three times the number of previous structures clearly bears witness to your willingness to propose a rich state-run mechanism and turn the back on the real needs of the citizens, despite your rhetoric to relieve vulnerable social groups. We also see reductions in health credits, education, the necessary recruitments, the state grant of HISA, which you have increased. It is EUR 61 million less for welfare and issues with the transport equivalent. You are bringing such a budget, even in the wake of the abolition of the thirteenth pension and the abolition of the social dividend. You do that you don't have your god, but I'm afraid your god is the Mamon of your greed and greed. Who will pay our bride is already well known and you have made it clear: the middle and low classes, the employees, the pensioners and the farmers, those who are claiming to spend 1/3 of their gross income on all kinds of consumer spending, under the pretext of dealing with tax evasion, while the sole objective is to incur these money gaps created by the reluctant to invest or increase wages of big businessmen. So the bride will pay again the weak, the sick, the children, by reducing the welfare state you are promoting. As in the past, your political suitability to support the great interests that avatar you will once again be exhausted on the backs of the middle Greek and middle Greek. We are not going to follow you in this absurdity of injustice. You will find us across from every time you work ways to hit the country and its citizens even more simply to benefit your few chosen ones. That is why we shall be voting against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Vryzidou is called on the New Democracy in Step and Mr. Xanthopopoulos Theophilos is then prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, Minister, today we are discussing one of the top issues of Parliament's legislation, the budget. And it's one of the two most important issues, the national and the economy. It is the budget that puts the axes and the rules on how the country's economy will go from now on. The Greek citizens have told us that the first issue that concerns them is the national issue, namely the security of the country. Our citizens want a strong country, a safe country, and at the same time want our Government and all the MPs unnegotiable in our national issues. At this moment in time, a multi-faceted and multi-level struggle is taking place in this chapter which concerns our country, and here we are discussing the budget, the also important issue of the economy. Because the economy is all about education and health and development, with all the individual sectors, and that is why it is very important and we attach great importance. I will start with the past, which has shown that strategies and choices have not led to positive results and have not thanked the Greek citizens, because there have been significant and great taxes, so that households and businesses have been affected and at the same time, apart from overtax, we have had a reduction in wages and pensions. The result is not questionable by anyone. Businesses have closed down, with many private sector employees finding themselves in unemployment. At the same time, apart from the fact that the companies closed down, it was very difficult for households and public debts increased, as well as for debts in general. Of course, the great blow of our country is unemployment, as we have recorded huge numbers. No one can question the social problem. No one can question how difficult our young people and those who remain and fight here in Greece, but those who have had to be abroad, where the conditions are not favourable and with great difficulty they go because they cannot stay in our own country. Therefore, instead of confronting numbers, it is good to look at reality and try to correct what hurts the new generation and all of us in our place. The government with the budget it has tabled, I think it is clear that it remains faithful to its announcements in the election process. And the first laws passed are confirmed that it will keep the reasons it mentioned and the arguments it had for the country's development in the run-up to the elections. And today, with the budget almost certainly, we are waiting, in addition to some possible difficulties, for the positive results in the individual sectors. And what areas does the budget take on the basis of which we are waiting for this improvement? First of all, there are the tax exemptions that have been voted on and some of them have been implemented. I will not mention them in detail, because they have also been mentioned in the vote on other legislations, but also by colleagues, such as HICPIA, the import tax rate at 9% and other sub-tax issues, which have really facilitated us in particular. A good and important message also comes with the development law, which in turn enables growth, which can be carried out with private enterprises and investments which could not continue to operate in the past, because there was a high tax rate and at the same time, insurance obligations and all obligations in general led to companies being devastated and closed down. So we hope that the facility in this area will bring growth and at the same time reduce unemployment so that the new generation can begin to hope. Moreover, households who had reached a dead end now are now being facilitated and already individual measures give a boost, while helping the demographics mentioned. It is a very important step to support the birth of young children and therefore the family, which is a very big chapter, because this will also help demographics, which has been analysed by previous colleagues and which is indeed one of the most important issues. Also, care has been taken with the HERAKLIS project and the hundred and twenty doses for people who are overdebted and it seems that the government and it does not leave them helpless, nor is it indifferent to this very big chapter. Furthermore, the fact that the heating allowance of 68 million is increasing is one that satisfys particular areas, such as western Macedonia, from where I come from, Kosanis, regions that are poor, with a large unemployment rate, with many days of winter and unbearable cost of oil and heating. This provision is a positive step and gives us the satisfaction and feeling that there is care and that the government cares about the economically weaker. Also, as far as health is concerned, we have an increase in the EEA of 108 million. So there is care in this sensitive area too. In addition, undeclared work is being taken. We have discussed this issue in a previous bill, it also appears in the budget and it will give young people the opportunity for better conditions, as well as for insurance funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, as far as tax evasion is concerned, it will be dealt with in a concrete way, such as plastic money. This provides for certain sectors which are an important chapter for the Greek taxpayer. With all these measures we believe that GDP will increase from 11.6% to 13%, and of course the growth that we hope will come with all these measures will create better conditions and a better climate in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st and 2nd School of Colindos Pierias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor now. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdo, I accept your challenge, and I will also speak out of hand, but by consulting notes, as the Rules of Procedure of this House recognize. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the country's budget today, which is the first government in New Democracy, and is a key factor in economic policy and a mirror of its objectives and objectives. And I am thinking of the word 'thank you' and people are miserable'. I have been following since yesterday the quote, the orchestra of numbers, percentages and statistics without sufficient grounding with social reality. What is the budget, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? Certainly, it's not an accounting issue. It's a deep political one. That is why you are avoiding social references, such as 'the devil'. We are therefore discussing a law which basically regulates three things: how much we take as a state, who we take as a state and, above all, whom we give them as a state. What is the major issue that we have to deal with as a society today? The crisis of the populace and the middle layers. That's the big one we'll all be judged on. First. We have a billion dollars of positive measures. But look at the big picture. Only 10% is directed to the social state and 90% goes to the other side. In practice, access to social goods is prevented for the large part of the Greek people. The tax which we have voted on - and it was a speeding shot by the government - does not meet the request of the middle classes. Of the twenty-nine unfair taxes, which you have been stumbling us in the face of all the previous period and which have been put into a period of commemorative coercive, the twenty-eight remain in force. What do you have to say about this, which we are constantly asking you from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to date and which you do not have a word with? Nor is this budget social, because the large part that is being saved is directed at large businesses. 80% of the reductions concern large enterprises. However, outside the Memorandum, the budget'sees' to the Memorandum. And it reminds me of the clutch "you'll be out of the memorial, but it'll be like being inside". Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, your basic assumption of a 2% reduction in unemployment is wrong. We know, we have experienced it as a society in a painful way. If collective agreements are abolished and wages are not increased, unemployment is escalating. We have lived it in the previous period and you are reintroducing it with this budget. It's a mystical choice. The citizen is not only a taxpayer, he has other needs, which for many and underneath are covered by the social state, which is absent from your perspective. The social divide of 175 million is the tip of the iceberg. Farmers, employees, pensioners are the losers. The reduction in health expenditure relates to them, while the reduction in the Public Investment Programme concerns society as a whole. Your budget also has a theological dimension: the paradise for the minimum, the cleansing room for the few and the "collapsing" for the many. That is not the way society, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. We have not heard any approach to the relationship between the world and the Greek economy. Is the country walking in a vacancy? The proposed model creates and broadens inequalities and follows them remarkably. In times of globalisation and domination of financial capital, you are being buffaloed by embarrassment. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from a county that has the largest forest complex in the country: poor areas, a variety of agricultural products, the core of the country's wine production and important marble industries. It is not photographed anywhere in this budget. We know that the core of your policy is the compression of labour costs and the reduction of the social state, while waiting for growth by the private sector alone. It is incomplete to expect the wrong method to have correct results. We are against that logic. Support for many and underprivileged is the prerequisite for the development of society. Workers, self-employed, farmers and young scientists have nothing to expect from this budget. It is up to them to concentrate their struggles, demand their rights, claim their future, and we as SYRIZA, as the left, will support these struggles, strengthen our efforts and fight with them, in order to avoid the adverse effects of this budget, to open up another path of development of the country and society. Because this budget is against the large majority of society and therefore also of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u157	I, too, thank Mr Xanthopoulou and thank him for keeping time. Mr. Ypsilantis Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Gokas Christos is prepared by the Movement of Change. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Blondopoulos, you will allow me to tell you. Dear Theophile, you will allow me to tell you that this is the difference between the consistent right. He said it all from boobs. Now you were looking inside and looking at a lot. So you didn't keep your promise in full, and that's the New Democracy difference with SYRIZA. We keep what we say while you don't keep it. Well, you were, like you said, very good for what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u159	Our difference is that I kept what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u160	Now, however, let me return to my speech, because the President is very strict, whether I read them or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u161	It was with humor, however, let's continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, 2019 is indeed the first year of implementation of economic policy outside economic adjustment programmes since 2009, which accompanied it and supported the increasingly improved economic climate, due to the confidence in the new government and the speeding up of its reform efforts, the commitment to budgetary and reform objectives and the significant freedom to specialise economic policies, in spite of all these objectives that I have mentioned. So, leaving the third, the hardest of all the memoranda, the SYRIZA - ANEL memorandum and very late for Greece, because of the choices of the political parties in these parties, enhanced supervision has been activated so that it can ensure continuity in the completion of the agreed reforms. This is a surveillance of budgetary and structural policies, social welfare, financial stability, the labour and product market and public administration. In addition, in February 2019, the European Commission identified microeconomic imbalances related to the high level of government GDP debt, the country's negative net investment position, the amount of non-performing loans stock, the high unemployment rate and the low potential growth and productivity rates. This no-good reality was called upon to manage and overcome the new government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy directly and targeted, fairly, for all Greeks, while at the same time releasing the productive powers of the country and, in particular, the development forces of the Greek region, directed towards the road of Western economic normality. In order to eliminate these imbalances, structural changes need to be implemented and economic growth accelerated. On this basis, possible restrictive factors, in addition to the high primary surpluses of the general government, which are dealt with in the budget by reducing overruns over the objectives, are, first and foremost, an estimate for the night of the international economic environment. In order to achieve high growth rates in a sustainable way, stimulate domestic demand, also our own investments, and also our exports, and at the same time reduce tax burdens and implement environmentally friendly policies. Already the first examples of writing the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis are both large and important, finally freed from the ideas and situations created by SYRIZA's policies and leading the place to an obvious delay. We should point out in this context that in 2018 a reduction was recorded in the gross fixed capital formation that it touched - please - 12.2% compared with 2017. This significant size of the reduction restored the volume of investments at the levels of 2015. At the end of December 2018, the Quantitative Easing Quantitative Programme of the European Central Bank was completed with the total purchases of government debt securities since the launch of the programme in March 2015, which exceeded 2,5 trillion euros, politically losing the Tsipras - Kammenos government and this opportunity. Fortunately the Greek people in this context in the July elections condemned them definitively and irrevocably. So here is the tragic consequences of the policy pursued by the previous government. And today you come to raise our fingers, thinking that this is how you erase a course that guided, under your exclusive responsibility, the place in maritalism and poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, our country in any case needs a faster change in the production of the economy in order to stimulate exports and reduce imports. Tourism is a gigantic economic activity in fact. The Dodecanese, with the pioneering islands of Rhodes and Kos, contribute to this important pluralistic activity. In fact, according to the report of the Governor of the Bank of Greece for 2018, 23% of total current account collections and 43% of the services balance relate to tourism. The contribution of tourism to the balance of payments and thus to economic growth is enormous. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the competitiveness of tourism, to create infrastructure in the tourism sector, to strengthen investment and, of course, to reduce taxation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Two further points I want to make. Greece must focus on quality tourism. Today is a great opportunity for a radical renewal of it. Our culture and cultural heritage are a lever for development on this path. These can take off our country in the context of the international competitive environment. I would also like to stress that the aim of fiscal justice, the limitation of tax evasion, tax evasion and tax morality is a nationally important project, even in connection with the further reduction of tax burdens. As regards the latter, as a representative of the Dodecanese acronym, I will not stop repeating the obvious and fairness of our remote islands that are at least a hundred and twenty nautical miles from the centre. With the return to the complete normality of the economy and the end of the tax suffocation of all Greeks, the state must restore what the government of SYRIZA has deprived of: the reduced rates of VAT on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u163	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President. The priority of the Government of New Democracy for the transition to the budget of performance shall for the first time establish the mandatory status of objectives and results in the economic history of this place. The classification of the budget in programmes is expected to support greater transparency in terms of the allocation of public resources. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying, of course, that for all these reasons and many more, so that our country can finally relive moments that will give young people and all Greeks prospects, I am voting in favour of the budget under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u165	Mr Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Christos Boukokouros will then speak from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft budget has taken precedence over two other draft laws of the government which are of direct relevance to the formulation of the budget, namely the development and tax, which were also the precursor to the form of the 2020 budget that we are debating. Despite the intense communication view, it was not what our country needs, which has experienced a more than ten years of unprecedented economic crisis, starting from the economic derailment of the period of Karamanlis and New Democracy 2004-2009 and, finally, with the disastrous management of SYRIZA since 2015, an economy that had begun to breathe, but led it to the third, more painful and inappropriate memorandum. Today the government claims that, with its policy, the country is coming out of the crisis, while SYRIZA has said that we have already come out of the crisis, despite the commitments of ninety-nine years in the case of public property. In the last four and a half years, almost 12 units of GDP growth have been lost. Small and medium-sized ones, the middle layers saw their income shrinking and poverty sharing among all. SYRIZA's work. Unemployment and underemployment, along with the departure of young people abroad, hide much of the unemployment that is present. If you ask the people of the market, the real economy, the professionals, they will tell you that very few things have changed. And how will they change when the beastly surpluses of EUR 7 billion remain? for 2020; With your budget you are serving the commitments of Mr. Tsipras, the good student, who has, since the deletion of the disgraceful debt, established so much taxation, which remains the surplus of every year. The characteristic is the direct-indirect tax relationship. Indirect taxes in 2014 EUR 24 billion The euro. Indirect taxes for 2020 EUR 29 billion The euro, a 20% increase. From 1.15% the indirect tax ratio in 2014 to 1.50% the forecast for 2020, which is unfair to the weakest, is forecast to increase taxes again at the expense of small and medium-sized areas. The forecast for growth rate of 2.8% is disproved by the European Commission itself, which provides an estimate of 2.3%. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget does not give prospect and substantial, decisive support to the world of production, labour, investment, employment, to provide income for the citizens and income to the state, with dignity for the citizen and national confidence, with a strong economy. It's, despite your rhetoric, a disgusting budget. Let's go to the Public Investment Program. The forecast for 2020 is ECU 6.75 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. However, the exact same forecast was in 2019. You do not increase public investment either. It's just water blurred. At 6.15 bn. It is estimated that the Public Investment Programme will be closed this year, and the 2019 budget also provided for exactly EUR 6.75 billion, as in 2020. But again in 2018 6.75 bn. The Commission's proposal was based on the provision, with the closure at EUR 6,237 billion. That is, in 2018, we had a reduction. So absorption will be at the same level, at best, while we are third from the end in the investment-to-GDP ratio, according to the OECD, and the country needs ECU 100 billion. investment to go to the average of the advanced countries. But the bulldozers still enter the Greek and not one of the private investments you expected came. It is therefore easy to understand the importance of the real increase in the Public Investment Programme. Regarding the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the forecast for 2020 is ECU 1.467 billion. In addition, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in respect of aid granted by the European Investment Bank to small and medium-sized enterprises (EIBs) in the form of loans granted by the European Investment Bank to small and medium-sized enterprises (EIBs) in the form of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the form of loans to The reduction is very large and doubtful when the implementation for 2019 is estimated to be EUR 1.313 billion, that is, EUR 500 million reduced. They are resources that are missing from the national and regional and local economy. These reductions mean that the NSRF is not normally implemented, since it is about 80% in the Public Investment Programme. In this area, we are ringing a bell. We cannot afford to lose resources. The NRP ends, while infrastructure needs are large and the fronts open. We are seeing great delays for many projects. New major projects during the SYRIZA period were not, but we have not yet seen any development on either the famous Patras - Tower - which was ready for tender, divided into eight contractors on SYRIZA and has not even begun, on the North Road Axis of Crete - nor on the also afflicted Ambrosia axis up to the Aktios in Preveza, as well as on infrastructure, which is necessary on the rail network for maintenance and expansion projects and at airports. Also, the tenders for the purchase of buses in Athens and specifically in Thessaloniki should be launched, with the tragic situation that SYRIZA inherited to OSTH - half of the buses left - but also an urgently integrated solution to the Thessaloniki metro. You're only ready to look, gentlemen of the New Democracy Government. In conclusion, I would like to refer to my particular region, continent and Arta. The Ionian Street must be completed by Cakavia. The railway connection between Epirus and Igoumenitsa, as well as the vertical axes of the Ionian Road to Preveza and via the Coast - Ambrosia and through the Philippid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There are projects relating to productive areas, such as the improvement of Artas plain projects, which have been stagnated, without new funding, since 2014. There has been the work of anti-military protection of Arta joining the ESRB since 2014, for which only a few months before the elections the study was commissioned, with a risk that this programming period will not be implemented. There are shortcomings in hospitals across the continent in infrastructure, equipment and personnel. There is a loose end with the suspension of three university departments, the Department of Food and Food Sciences in Arta, the Department of Engineering and Engineering in Igoumenitsa and the Department of Translation and Interpretation in Igoumenitsa. The House has not yet been informed. We're waiting for the Minister in charge. Also, farmers, as in the rest of Greece, are experiencing serious problems, such as taxation, insurance contributions, which are to be doubled in terms of the minimum level, the cost of production. Farmers are still waiting for a reduction in the excise duty on oil. We have made concrete proposals in the tax for farmers. With your budget you do not give them any prospects. It is our belief that growth is going through decentralisation policies - from the centre to the region - with infrastructure and production support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are voting against a draft budget that does not improve people's lives, does not support production and development, it increases injustices and social inequalities, it does not involve positive care for workers, especially young people, both in the public and private sectors. We are voting against a bill that gives no prospect for a strong Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you. Mr. Bukoros Christos from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr. Sakis Papadopoulos will be prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, just a few minutes ago, I should like to say a few minutes ago that the Members of the New Democracy and SYRIZA are confronted with the texts or the breasts of speeches at the National Representation, but at the same time, I would like to remind the House that almost always the Rules on the Budgets provided for the Members' notes. However, the more general theme, having been given the opportunity, would be a good thing to discuss it at some point, along with the reduction in the years of intervention, in order to avoid, in the future, slandering and tiring discussions, in order to make the Greek people more easily involved in parliamentary activities. It is a proposal which the Bureau can see. Ladies and gentlemen, things are changing quickly and firmly. The march to tomorrow is on. This is understood both inside and outside the country's walls. 2.8% of the budget says. As much as we interpret the budget numbers on the basis of the perspective of each of us in this Chamber, this is the capital size. That's the big bet. Over the past four years, they were lost in an environment of recession or even anaemic growth, while in 2004 the reversal of the course had started at a rate of growth after a long recession of 0.8%, according to the updated figures of ELSTAT of 2018. I think we all accept that. No one can question them. What did the previous government do? Inside that subordinate environment it loaded the Greek people with 11.4 billion euros overcrowding, humiliating growth, economy and society. But that's it! Does the current situation and the budget that we are debating justify optimism? We say yes and the Greek people consent. The economic and political climate has improved, precisely because the budget includes the entire legislative work adopted by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the first five months. Because, no matter how many people want to ignore it, the life of the government is. It's five months government. So none of the government has argued that we have solved over the first five months of our life the problem of overtaxation. No one told this room we brought growth in forty days. But all of us, ladies and gentlemen, are firmly convinced that the foundations for starting a new path are now in place, more reliable, hopeful, developmental, productive. Right here, however, the warning difference with the Civic Opposition is also identified. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, believe in a state-owned model of aid and benefits. You believe that this can solve the economic problem. You believe that by recycled and defaming the same money, you can solve the economic problem of the country. On the contrary, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us in New Democracy firmly believe that only the production of wealth and its diffusion through well-paid jobs can solve the problem facing the country. That is why we believe that both the development and tax law that has been passed and the insurance bill which is coming soon are development instruments for attracting investment. Only investment, private and public - and in particular private - can make us out of the crisis. That's the big bet in the country. If the country's development problem is resolved, all the rest will be resolved more easily. So only we will be able to fund our national defence, health, education and welfare adequately and intactly. Everything else, all other recipes are a share of poverty, which unfortunately does not share either fair or unfair. Attracting investments, this is the big one and, let me say, the national objective of our Government. But with this aim, it is essential to harmonize public administration as well. Each official serving the country and rewarded by it must harmonise its efforts with the achievement of the objective of investment. Public administration officials, in my humble view, must think about what is allowed to attract investment rather than seek to find out what is forbidden, through two-way interpretations of the laws that Parliament is voting on, by increasing bureaucracy and effectively preventing investment by delays. It is a given, ladies and gentlemen, respect for both law and the environment. Unfortunately, however, it is not at all given the insight into the need to change things. I will not go into the legislation that preceded the budget and which is reflected in it, in the reduction of HICP, in the reduction of the first-stage tax, in the reduction of income tax, in the reduction of dividends, in the reduction of the tax on agricultural schemes, in the small but, nonetheless, in the reduction of the tax advance and not a massive 50% increase imposed by the previous government, in the reduction of VAT on basic products and services and so many others that have been voted on in a very short time. But I firmly believe that the 2020 budget will enable not only the whole country, but also my constituency, the Magnesia of great productive character, to make use of its important infrastructure and, above all, to implement the great investment that has been going on for so many years in order to keep young scientists, professionals, farmers, traders, so that they can produce, pay and take part in the country's recovery effort. Today we are more optimistic and more determined, which is why we are voting in favour of the budget, because we believe that the legislation that has been preceded, but also the budget that is being discussed today and which will be voted on Wednesday night, inspire the country's political stability, bring legal certainty, lower taxation and incentives to a friendly business environment, and they, wherever you look internationally, are the key factors in attracting investment and rectifying the country's economy. We are voting in favour of the 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u169	Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u170	What is the most problematic of the 2020 government budget? It shows a government which does not realize what Mr Denkias pointed out this morning, namely to know what went wrong in a long period of suffering, distortions, complications, explosive deficits, overcompensation, memorial custody, with internal devaluation theories. It shows a government that perpetuates class-shaped choices for the rich, continues to have neoliberal illusions. What is the most tragic is that it does not exploit potential, comparative advantages and, above all, human resources, which can lead the country to the new era. We have seen no incentive in the budget to return to the country the gifted young children, which can be exploited throughout that country's productive reconstruction effort and an overall positive course that we can have. Mr Stavros said in his speech that the 2020 budget is a budget that has social justice and is in favour of development for all. Social justice in the budgetary data does not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the issues relating to the social state. Welfare: expenditure reduction by 61 million euros. Social security: a reduction of the State grant to the VRK by EUR 475 million. Pensions: reduction of expenditure by 192 million. Social solidarity: the reduction of subsidies granted by OPEKA by 367 million. OAED: reduction of funding by 50 million. How are you going to support employment? There's a lot more. From my point of view, with the tasks that I have in the committee that controls government work on health, I would like to say that in the issues that concern the awareness of the needs of the new era for the National Health System, namely what the government is doing and what it should do by making use of the possibilities that exist, our government is imputing to it that it does not have a sense of what can be done in Greece by means of intervention. It takes timely and equitable and effective intervention for all citizens in upgraded hospitals, intensive care units, artificial kidney units, emergency departments, in order to have quality services. The Government does not support what is needed for the EAW, for primary health care structures, for health centres, for local health units. It does not see the additional needs in the difficult regions, especially islands, which also receive a large volume of refugees and migrants, but it does not exploit their potential in tourism. In addition, it does not contribute to reducing the burden on citizens and private health costs. After all these shortcomings, which are highlighted in the ten-year memorandum burden for the country, we hear a conception of public-private partnerships as 'Kamateros water', which cures all disease, while they also know very well from the global experience that the PPPs are a method that is ineffective and more costly and dangerous for the process of building a quality public health system in Greece. The private sector, ladies and gentlemen, has a complementary role and can play this complementary role in a way that does not become competitive with your perceptions, because, if you encourage competition and not complementarity, if you encourage the substitution of the HSH by the pursuit of hunting business profits from various piranjas that are in the hands of the EEIG and the resources it can make, then you are doing very good at our own intervention, which is a quality and effective health system, because that is what we want to point out by discussing all the issues that are contained in the budget. We believe there could be much more substantial efforts to strengthen the equipment of hospitals, to continuously operate. We are even talking about their afternoon operation, without it being provided with private incentives. These incentives could be given to staff working for the National Health System. And something else, very characteristic. Look at that. A lot of efforts by private donors of the National Health System, from institutions, "Narch", "Onasis", "Bardinoyannis", even from the OPAP, are strengthening the public health sector and you do not feel the need to do so through the budget, which can lead to what we need in the new era. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by tabling a budget that gives no right to the dream, and that leaves us, as our duty, with all our plan for fair and sustainable development, so that we can lead to the country's progressive regeneration plan in the new era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President, and respect for the time. Mr Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece. Here you go, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget reflects the implementation of the New Democracy programming commitments. These are the policies we have announced and approved by the Greek people. At the same time, it serves specific economic and political objectives, having as a compass the ideological and political framework of the New Democracy, namely social liberalism and the social market economy. The main idea of our economic policy is that prosperity will come through investment, domestic and foreign, which will create growth, bring new wealth and, of course, new jobs. At the same time, it seeks to strike a balance between economic efficiency and social justice, especially today that there needs to be a protection net for the weakest and a reduction in the tax burden on natural persons. After all, our party has always served the balance between private sector development, private initiative and support for the social state. Our economic policy is beginning to bear fruit. Positive measures have already been put in place, and there is a positive valuation from the markets. This year's budget shows that the Greek economy, having left the crisis behind, is taking firm steps towards a development path, is achieving the primary surplus target by reducing the tax burden on natural persons and businesses, while at the same time reducing costs in no sector of the economy. The state budget includes policies to achieve realistic objectives. The first objective is to achieve an economic growth rate of 2% for 2019 and 2.8% for 2020. Note that the performance of the Greek economy in the second half of this year is estimated to be higher than the first, while growth for 2020 is expected to be at least twice the European average, according to the European Commission. Of course, the basic sizes of the Greek economy - consumption, exports and investment - are positive. In particular, for investment, the medium-term objective of the new policy is to reach pre-crisis levels. Total public budget expenditure is projected to be EUR 57 million, EUR 57 million, increased by approximately EUR 1,000,000,000 compared to the corresponding estimate of 2019. At the same time, the Government is preparing an overview of the ministries' expenditure with a view to rationalising them, while emphasising the qualitative upgrading of the services provided. For 2020, the Public Investment Programme totalling nearly EUR 7,000,000 is geared towards real development. The second objective is to achieve a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP for 2019 and 2020, targets agreed by the previous government, but which would not be achieved on the basis of the European Commission's data, the Bank of Greece's report and the General Accounting Office's data. After all, there was a marked lack of revenue before the elections. However, the change in the economy after the elections, the disciplined implementation of the budget on the expenditure side and the improvement of tax compliance, contributed to the achievement of the financial target for 2019. The third objective is to strengthen the stability of the banking system. The HERAKLIS project, after being sent to the relevant European services for an official opinion, has been passed to enable banks to serve their role, which is the financing of the national economy. Fourth objective is to strengthen liquidity in the real economy by exploiting available European tools, the implementation of the Public Investment Programme and the reduction of outstanding public debt. The fifth objective is to improve the ability to repay the public debt. This year's financial needs were fully met by four - for the first time since 2010 - successful bond issues. The course of negotiation of the Greek bonds was particularly positive, having a direct impact on the loan costs of companies and credit institutions. The overrun of the four-year SYRIZA, which reached 11,400,000,000, was the money that accumulated the public by removing it from society, from the market, from the citizens. At the same time, the late debts of taxpayers to the public were increased by 18,000,000 euros, a sample of suffocation in the economy. The 2020 budget puts an end to the policy of overcrowding, while at the same time laying the foundations for addressing the great problem of the Greek economy, in recent years, the development and investment gap. It is also planned to reduce unemployment, with a significant increase in private consumption, reflecting an increase in the available incomes of all citizens, by reducing tax rates and increasing economic activity. The 2020 budget shall, at the same time, take measures to broaden the tax base and rationalise the expenditure and revenues of the general government. With these actions, the 2020 budget not only covers the budgetary gap that the new government inherited for the current and next year, but also creates the budget space for the significant reduction in tax rates, the increase in public investment and the triggering of a cycle of economic progress for the coming years, a cycle that will be characterised by dynamic growth, an increase in employment and the available income of all Greeks while respecting the so-called budgetary objectives and promoting social cohesion. In conclusion, the state budget demonstrates the positive dynamics of our economy, which the citizens already perceive and are expressed through the improvement of the climate that was and is a prerequisite for the success of our political effort. The risks have not been eliminated. Without triumphs, we seek cooperation and the widest possible convergence with all the political forces in the country. The path to normality requires responsibility, sound political controversy and above all, knowledge and wisdom, so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. Easily and quickly, everything with the sacrifices of the Greeks we have achieved can be lost. At a time when risks are growing, the best answer - I would say, the only answer - in all directions is the message of unity, leadership and of the people and the determination to deal with every problem as a human being. The moments do not allow misery and micro-party approaches. Finally, let us all just deal with the big ones, not only because the little ones can wait, but because at the end of the day life teaches that the little ones are not worth it, so they are quickly forgotten. Big, responsible decisions are writing history of our homeland and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u173	Mr Christos Katsotis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor, and then he is Mr. Javaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Another budget that is cut and sewn on capital measures, its further strengthening, deeply anti-grassy, anti-grassroots, which, of course, serves the strategy of capitalist development, a development which always presupposes an increase in the degree of exploitation, the ever-increasing divergence of gains from labour force, for expanded reproduction of profits and capital. That's the normality, Mr. Vlavo, you're serving. The risks from the slowing down of the global economy have a negative effect. It is yet another justification for wages, employment relations and any measures to protect workers from employers. The over seven hundred anti-linguistic, anti-popular, implementing laws of the three Memorandums, which have kneeled the workers and the self-employed, especially the young and the young. This budget captures the friendly investment climate, with the tax exemptions, with the new tax law, the development law satisfying every claim of business groups, for new areas of profitability on earth, air and sea. It satisfys their claim for a return to the past and the pathogens, as they characterize the conquests of the working class, the profound overturns in the institutional structure of collective bargaining. With the new weapons toward workers, the arrangements for the trade union register, the e-vote seeks to prevent workers from organising workers in their trade unions, the protagonist struggles with the new obstacles to the strike. This budget reflects the unscrupulous policy, as reflected in the 'HRAKLI', which grabs its livelihood, after it has been bankrupt, the auctions - more than 100 000 are planned for the next period - and the first residence, and indeed, without any protest, because this was a peculiar offence by SYRIZA. The budget estimates an increase of GDP of 2.8% and a corresponding increase for workers to 1.2%. The benefits of growth in productivity are the result of large capital. A further reduction in the wage share is envisaged for workers. For a part the small increase in wages, especially by maturation, will evaporate through the increase in taxation, since it is predicted that taxes on workers in 2020 will be EUR 1.5 billion increased compared to 2019. Direct taxes, indirect taxes, income tax are increased, as we have said, for 2020. Unemployment is stable at high levels. The unemployed are unprotected. It is worth transfering billions of euros to employers with various programmes that recycle unemployment. It is worth going through all these measures at the expense of workers. Steady work with full rights continues to be overturned. In 2018 60% of new contracts are part-time, 43% of workers are paid less than 700 euros. In 2009, full-time new contracts were 79% and part-time and rotating contracts were 21%. In 2016, the new full-time contracts were only 45% and part-time and rotating contracts 55%. In tourism, which did not have a crisis, we have fourteen forms of flexible work. The small minority works on a stable job. The New Democracy Government continues where the SYRIZA government has stopped. It shows, of course, a great deal of willingness to meet the new requirements of capital. After all, that was the commitment and that is why it was backed up. SYRIZA accuses us of identifying him with the New Democracy and presenting himself as the smallest evil, as a progressive force. But the damage that SYRIZA did was too great. The offer to the barbaric system is invaluable. With a left rhetoric it satisfied every claim of business groups at the expense of the workers. He implemented the choices of the bourgeoisie with the country's greatest involvement in imperialist designs and wars. He turned the country into a target of competing imperialist forces. He disillusioned workers, popular layers, contributed to the rise of conservativeism. We call on all of them in association with the JRC, in counterattack, to break to overthrow this barbarity. Has the SYRIZA Government maintained or not the entire legislative framework established by the New Democracy and the PASOK with the first and second Memorandums? Didn't he vote for the third memorandum with the others? Has the New Democracy now completed the privatisations of airports, ports, energy? Has he or didn't the Brutsi Act that abolished the payroll negotiation? Has it maintained or not the whole framework established by the New Democracy for collective bargaining, which are actually being abolished? Has it maintained or has it retained the associations of persons, the tool of employers, which has reduced wages to the average to convene at the lowest level, a tool that the New Democracy is now making use of to bring the average wage to the lowest level of EUR 650? Did it or did it not achieve a overwhelming attack on the social nature of the insurance with the Katorugalou law that has levelled the pensions and benefits of the workers? Does this not form the basis for the definitive abolition of its social character and the privatisation of the insurance system? Does the New Democracy not stand on this today to bring the new insurance bill in line with the decisions of the European Union, fully implementing the three pillars with the private insurance one? In order to implement all these anti-government and reinsurance measures, political forces, urban forces, repression forces, state terrorism are exploited. Of course it is not a privilege of the New Democracy. SYRIZA did the same. He hit pensioners, workers, farmers, students, students. With all this, employers' terrorism has caught a ceiling, it's gone. They think that this state of fear, which leads to silence, will be permanent, that the working class will be subjected to. But this is where the JRC is. He's not gonna make it. Whatever means you make use of, whatever limitations you put, the labour movement won't get into the plaster. It will be reconstructed, massed, and sooner or later the working class will claim everything because it belongs to it. She owns a wage that meets the needs. You will never satisfy him because you serve the profits. She owns a constant working time of thirty-five hours, seven hours, to have more time to do whatever she wants. You're across the street. You are serving the increasing exploitation of workers to produce greater goodwill for the business groups you serve. It belongs to an exclusively public health system with upgraded services, with science in its service. You promote PPPs, public-private partnerships, further trade and privatisation. Because that is what the business groups claim. She owns a system of education that will form children. It belongs exclusively to public compulsory social security, which will provide every worker with insurance against any risk and pension on the basis of its needs. She owns what you stole. They own the thirteenth pension. You who would abolish the Katorugalou law, implement it, correct it and widen the way to private insurance companies, which will be the investors and not the insured. They'll risk a little, medium or much, playing on stock exchange products for their pension, insurance benefits. They'll know what they'll pay, but not what they get back. She owns the right to residence in the working class. You've done away with the OEC. However, they continue to pay contributions, without housing. She owns rest, vacation, culture. You abolished the Labour Housing that had programs for at least a few beneficiaries. For all this, we call on the workers, the pensioners, the self-employed, and especially the young and young people, who are the biggest victims of your policy, to participate in the trade unions' rally on Wednesday, December 18: 30 a.m. in the Propylaea, to say no to the budget, to claim what they own. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Drama High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Javaras has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mrs. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos will take the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the previous ones from this Step towards the issues of the 2020 state budget, I think I need to make an introductory remark. The state's budget, as you know, is not the accounting of the state's accounts, but it is law, typical. That is why, in accordance with the procedure in plenary, we are not called upon to adopt a budget, but we are called upon to discuss it and vote it as a law, even though this law does not lay down any specific rule of law. This paradox is explained by the following thought. The Constitution in this very position points to the fact that the budget, as a law, always places a certain hierarchy of priorities in satisfying the needs, which is made by the legislative initiative to recommend to Parliament. With this thought, I consider it necessary to clarify that the 2020 budget and the 2019 budget have fundamental differences. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] On the basis of this clarification, I think we need to discuss it, because this year's budget - the one we are discussing today - has been drafted by a parliamentary majority that does not believe in the same political values that SYRIZA believed as a government had drafted the 2019 budget. It is reasonable and next, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you do find some imperfections in this budget because you are approaching it from what you would like to contain and, fortunately, it does not contain it. Because what we really want today to do with this legislation is to give and make society and state a rhythm that the state is obeying some other directions today. These guidelines do not treat the state as an instrument of class dominance as a means of redistributing incomes that we take atrociously from those who produce them to give them to those we consider to be and are our political audience. What we are trying today - and that is why you must judge us - is whether we are responding to what we have seen and told the Greek people boldly - and in the four and a half years that have passed under the SYRIZA government, we have made it clear - that we as government will change the flow of things, precisely because we will give things another precedent. This is not the stereotype "progressive" in which you swear. It is the sign of the state's operation to serve social needs, as these result and result in the specific historical context, which has a certain meaning. And what's the point? For four and a half years the previous government has done nothing but create gaps in production, investment, the economy in general. In fact, we today, when we receive the thread to continue the operation of the state, as a first step - and that is what this budget means - have a duty to regain lost time. To what is this waste of time? It is recommended that, because of this specific policy, a bad climate has been created for the operation of the real economy, so that today our country is last in investment in Europe and first in unemployment. This did not arise as a gift or as a curse from a supernatural and powerful devils and demon who relied on and does not love the Greeks, but is the result and the product of a specific policy, for which one of the ministers responsible for this policy had stated explicitly and unequivocally that: "We are obliged to exaggerate this middle class, because this is the class policy that we want to implement." So when we say'medium-class', we have to realise that it is not exactly the result of who gets the allowances and who is supported by the redistribution of incomes from taxation or social security, but we - you know - have a more Marxist approach to the middle class. We believe that the middle class is determined and determined by its relationship with the production process. In fact, we want this relationship to be so and so much as to contribute effectively and decisively to increasing national wealth. That's our difference. We do not quantify what exactly should be an identity of the middle class, but we believe that the professional, farmer, free trader, lawyer, engineer, too have the right to participate on equal terms in the economic life of the place, without being prevented from overtaxing or over-taxing which operate as taxation. That's the perception we have. That is why, gentlemen, we want through this budget to show the Greek people that today we are taking the first step to overthrow this unfavourable climate. Through this course that we will have in four years, you will see privatizations, you will see marvelous projects with the partnership of the private and public sectors, without feeling guilt about it, because for us the state is not so businessman, nor has so much money to invest in specific projects, for example, making an Olympic stadium in Ancient Olympia. It is something that we owe as Greeks to this valley of culture and olympism, for which we are all proud, but nobody has so far exploited this symbolic effectiveness of its name to make it national wealth, a national prestige, to make there a meeting place from all parts of the earth, athletes who will not compete with the official programme of the Olympic Games, but will come to be held in Pangrati, in the jump once upon, in a series of sports that has been devalued or for which it has no commercial interest to give its trademark. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u177	Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always a pleasure and is of interest when one succeeds Mr Javarra in the seat of the speaker. I will agree with him that the budget is clearly a formal law, which prioritises the basic directions of the government in question. I would also agree with the honourable Member that we have very wide differences, ideological, policies, SYRIZA, the Left, the progressive space with the New Democracy and the current neoliberal government, as expressed and reflected in today's budget. You wondered whether we would like - and there you have called us - to criticise what you promised and which you did not keep. I think that is the introduction to my remarks. I would say that there are three points that have collapsed, both in terms of the opposition, anti-SYRIZA front on which the opposition policy of the New Democracy was based last year, and even here last year, from this step, when we had already come out of the memoranda, which you did not accept at that time and, of course, your election commitments and promises. First of all, as far as the state of the economy is concerned, the budget that the New Democracy Government has brought - and today we are discussing - is precisely the economy delivered by the SYRIZA Government on 7 July. I would remind you, however, that all the time you have been talking about the destruction of the economy and questioning the exit from the memoranda. You had reached the point of becoming an unacceptable, divisional link, where we had then heard the chief of the opposition officer, Mr Mitsotakis, linking the Prespecies Agreement and all effort to our foreign policy with the non-reduction of pensions. So this is clear that it has been devastated and devastated by your own - and rightly so - a landing in the real economy and, in fact, as the SYRIZA government has handed it over and, of course, all European and international institutions have accepted it. The second issue - and I would remind you of that - was the record of the great renegotiation which the Government of New Democracy would do after the elections on the primary surpluses. That's true, you abandoned it early. As early as the first month of July, it was abandoned and you did not even want to take advantage of the proposal made by SYRIZA in an election and it was his commitment to gain the election, namely to exploit the security pillow that SYRIZA had made - which you now welcome in the budget - so that with the guarantee account there could be a real reduction in primary surpluses and therefore greater choices in the exercise of economic and social policy. The third point, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the famous tax relief and support for the middle-class, medium-sized and low incomes. I think that here there is the complete denial of these announcements, because the reality is that your neoliberal approach, what you mean is growth and growth and investment, is fully reflected in this budget. The first truth, then, is in the tax sector. Already with the tax bill before us, and now with the budget, it is clear that your choice is the biggest tax relief for large companies that are fewer - not, of course, for the majority of small and medium-sized professionals and entrepreneurs - and of course big incomes. On the contrary, we see that you do not take any measures that you could take. We had announced them and even proposed that we reduce tax advances and abolish the solidarity levy and the trade fee. They were measures in particular which would have a concrete effect on medium and low incomes. The second truth reflected in your budget, which is perhaps also one of the most important points in the difference in the political situation of the SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy, is, of course, the social sector. We have to say that we are all talking about a social policy, when you come to invest in cheap work, so that together with tax evasion, as I said before, you can strengthen growth. You are destroying the industrial relations and regulations that the SYRIZA government had reinstated, which were abolished by the second memorandum. In fact, with the abolition of collective bargaining, you lead to a reduction in wages. In the social field, it is a huge difference. It's not just about the lowest incomes. To operate in modern Greece, in a modern European, democratic country, the social state also concerns the middle-stages, as well as professionals and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Because SYRIZA's Minister for Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos and the Deputy Minister for Welfare, Mrs. Fotou, is here, I want to speak with numbers. When SYRIZA received the government in 2015 it was 789 million - if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Fotio - the predicted welfare costs. In four and a half years of SYRIZA's term of office under the Memorandum of Understanding - and this shows that differences and choices exist under and under difficult situations - have risen to 3.5 billion. Now is the first time that this budget has reduced social and social expenditure. It reduces the rent allowance for the LEIs. We heard before a position that took us back to operational disability, which we had retarded the time we were in the government and negotiated with the institutions. It naturally reduces family allowances and school meals. You are entitled to the birth allowance. No one will say that it is not positive, even though it is perhaps in a different perception of how one strengthens family and demographics. But tell us frankly, do you think that the demographic issue - because it has been raised by many colleagues, and that is the way it is - is solved with a single contribution to birth? No, ladies and gentlemen. If we are concerned with demographics, it means that there is a social state, that means employment relationships, that of women - mothers to be able to work, it means social support for the family. That's our big difference. In conclusion, I would like to stress this. When we talk about another development policy, it cannot be based on cheap labour and the lack of public investment, because we also have a reduction in public investment here. We believe that, with work, healthy entrepreneurship, fair and sustainable growth that respects the environment and tackles the climate crisis and by combating inequalities, this is the basis for long-term and fair growth. That is why we are voting against your budget, as we are voting against your policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u179	Mr Syragos Evangelos from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Constantine Rocas is considered by the founders or rather the founder of Commercial Law in Greece. In his classic traditions, he was traditionally referring to the importance of faith, commercial faith. He told us that in the market, in commerce, there is no money going on. There's faith. You trust the other guy and you get into the process to accept that what he tells you is true. The young dealer goes to the industrialist and says to him "I have no money to buy a hundred pounds of color", for example. "I only have money for five pounds of color, I will give you a note or a check." If the industrialist has confidence that the young man will pay back the bill or check, he will give him the extra materials he needs and thus moves trade. If he doesn't trust him, he'll only give him five pounds. And the industrialist will sell a little, and the young dealer will sell a little. So trust is dominant in the market. The crucial issue, which the current budget is trying to build, is to rebuild the confidence that has been lost from the market. That's his main objective. In recent years a number of measures have been gradually growing confidence. Recently the election of Mitsotakis Government gave a breath on the market that things will improve. This budget, as everything goes well and we do not have a major problem - and I shall then mention what I mean - will proceed smoothly and I believe it will restore the confidence that the world needs. The alarming evidence is two. Both relate to the same country, Turkey. In fact, there is a serious possibility in 2020 that we will have bad developments both in the Cypriot EEZ and in the Greek continental shelve. In the Cypriot EEZ it is clear that Turkey is determined to pursue a registrar policy. It will impose at all costs its decision to proceed to drilling within the Cypriot EEZ. In the case of the Greek shelf shelf shelf she goes looking for, detecting, trying to see what the Greek intentions are. We have no intention of pursuing a policy of reciprocity. However, it can see to it that the government is prepared to take it. In this respect, thankfully, as was seen at the National Foreign Policy Council, there was an absolute consensus and the interventions which have been made could be said to be more interventions in the sense of correcting a course to which we agree rather than something radically different. However, I shall refer to the question of sanctions, which is repeated by SYRIZA, as the direction to be taken by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned this in detail today in his dentistry and said that this is a tactical issue that we are following and I fully agree with. It's a tactical matter. But there is another point that we need to see in relation to sanctions. What sanctions are there at the moment in Turkey? What are we waiting for? Turkey had an accession process. All the accession funds have been frozen. All the funds that have been directed towards Turkey have been frozen. There is nothing, no budget allocated to Turkey except the funds relating to immigration and refugee. Even the official contacts between Turkey and the European Union have been frozen, when I say official contacts, I mean convening the institutions convened every four months, six months between the European Union and Turkey. All this is frozen. They have been imposed, launched in May and continued in July and October, sanctions which remain to bring about results in the next period, sanctions against companies and natural persons operating in the Cyprus EEZ. That's what's going on. The insistence on sanctions, therefore, that what it means to Cyprus should also happen to Greece is not something that will firstly change Turkey's image against Greece, against the European Union, and secondly, my personal view is that it will not sweat Turkey's ear, as it has unfortunately not established until now the sanctions that have been imposed. Over the next few weeks Cyprus has already submitted a list of companies and natural persons and we expect to see the implementation of these sanctions and their results. This is about obsessing the issue of sanctions. We now have a second set of objections, we have seen them in the last few days, there has also been an article by the former Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, yesterday in the 'NEA', which has been mentioned on several occasions in Helsinki's policy. The Helsinki policy had a great advantage in putting Cyprus into the European Union, in my opinion, one of the two greatest advantages, the two greatest successes of Greek foreign policy. The first was the accession of Greece to the EEC in '81, the second was the accession of Cyprus to the European Union in 2000.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u181	And the third was the Prespes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u182	Let us have a completely different view of whether it was the Prespes or not. So we have these two major achievements. However, Helsinki also had a second point concerning the Aegean, and here was its problem. There is a completely different conception of Greece and Turkey as to what constitutes a difference between the two countries. Greece has consistently claimed since 1974 that the difference is one and only, delimitation of the continent. On the contrary, Turkey refers to a large number of disputes, which we did not accept. Helsinki's policy - and that is where it suffered - was that it enabled Turkey to get out of the bag of its claims what it wanted and put it on the table. That is something that must not be repeated. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have a serious problem of reading Turkey properly. I'll give you the last example. Four days ago, there was a vote in the UN and Turkey voted against the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Where it was written in Greek newspapers it referred to the term "rezili" became Turkey, it was left alone, it was isolated, etc. If we want to read the facts correctly, we will find that Turkey was the one that elected a roll-call vote, that is, Turkey has asked for it. To what end? She should vote against alone for her disagreement to be recorded. That's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting on the budget on Wednesday. Since then, Magna Carda is supposed to be Parliament's most important function, the clearest exercise of national sovereignty, the fact that we vote on how to take taxes, how to spend the tax money. I hope that international developments, the unprecedented geopolitical liquidity in which we will be in 2020, will return us to execute the budget without any problem and be optimistic at the end of 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u183	The next speaker is Mrs Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution, who is the last speaker in the third cycle. Before we begin the fourth cycle, we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mrs Michaelidou, and then we will continue in the fourth cycle of the speakers. Here, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of our country are struggling to survive after almost a decade of stay in the crisis. The sacrifices they have made are too many. The Greek households are suffering. He suffers every Greek and every Greek. The consequences of strict austerity, wage cuts and reductions in pensions are here everywhere around us and still do not see a prospect. Thousands of Greeks continue to experience the effects of the decade of passion. The enclosed income has left families with dramatically reduced incomes without access even to the necessary. And while wages and pensions remain at levels of impoverishment for our fellow citizens, the prices of products and services are increasing. Many familymen choose to suffer silently, are ashamed to admit the difficult situation their governments and politicians have brought. The Greek solution clearly says that we must give the Greeks breath both in today's citizens and in tomorrow's generations. To this end, the Greek Solution firmly believes that the prospects of the primary sector and in addition to the processing of agricultural production are essential for the development of the Greek economy. The domestic agricultural holding, combined with providing incentives for Greeks to deal with the land, will give our country the opportunity to use its possible paper effectively and aiming. Greece has great potential to exploit scientific research and modernise this critical sector, but there is a complete inability of governments to invest in the obvious. The increase in revenue is presented through the budget, mainly based on household taxes again. How much do you think they can handle this? Explanations of ideas can be heard by any means within this Hall. But citizens are tired of hearing good-looking reality when the daily life they experience is tragic. How do you fight poverty and unemployment? What kind of care do you take for the citizens who are plagued and struggling without seeing the way out of their long-term struggle? Social protection benefits are, unfortunately, given the drop-off. How do you support the ordinary Greek citizen, with what compensation? By providing EUR 2,000 for every child born in Greece without dealing only with Greek citizens? You're forgetting society. You don't care about young people who don't know if they'll ever retire. We have reached the point that we regard the graduate as successful with a graduate in important sectors that takes EUR 800 mixed and that is shameful. You literally sell Greek citizens from state-owned property to homes. And this year's state budget is out of reality and that's because you don't know what happens to the daily lives of Greek and Greek and especially you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u185	The Minister for Labour, Mrs Michailidou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the committee responsible, the opposition has already attempted to distort even the obvious. And the obvious in the case of the state budget are the figures of expenditure and revenue submitted for approval at the National Representation. Correspondence and misleading, of course, are the privileged field of SYRIZA, after all, proved it by far in the first half of 2015 with the absolute political humiliation of its transformation not in yes after the split referendum. So, continuing with this well-being, which was followed with the ANELs, there is no surprise that even for SYRIZA, when they do not serve his pursuits and ideas have absolutely no meaning. However, because, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, refusal of reality does not constitute a deep political argument for all of us, let me remind you of the reality of the 2020 budget in the area of our social policy. It is a reality, therefore, that the social part of the budget is increased by 6% for 2020. It is a reality that budgeted pre-accession expenditure is increased by 236 million, not only by fulfilling the commitment of the Prime Minister himself and the Government that no subsidy policy is being abolished or cut down, but at the same time proving our strong will for an even wider and effective support for the most vulnerable of us. The SYRIZA election propaganda that appeared to New Democracy as the municipality of the social state was sure to be disguised, as is the case. In excess of the logic of an subsidised policy, direct social transfers from our Government are increased on the basis of a proper planned planning with criteria both for their more effective targeting and their developmental dimension. In particular, the budget provides for preferential expenditure which is specified as follows: birth allowance. We are introducing for the first time a birth allowance of EUR 2 000, which is granted horizontally to all, for each child born in the country. Our aim is to halt the continuous drop in birth index and reverse this negative demographic trend. With the introduction of the birth allowance, we have founded a demographic policy that responds to the needs of today, in response to two basic problems. Firstly, we are practically supporting the family during the first year of childbirth, and secondly, we ensure the sustainability of the social security system underpinned by birthhood. The establishment for the first time in our country of birth allowance is the foundation of such a policy. And I say the foundation, because others have already followed, against the existential challenge that is indeed the demographic issue and our country. Its allowance is set for the sake of social justice an income limit of 40,000 euros, and that is to make there a sense of law between the rightholders and the citizens of our country. I will not be tired of repeating that there will be no reduction in any category of benefits. And the term 'preferential benefits' means the so-called disability benefits. And I will not get tired of repeating this because I have to reassure some of the concerns of our fellow citizens because opposition irresponsibly and without any social sensitivity it continues to cultivate false evidence. And what are these? One danger that we have been introducing less innovative benefits since 2020. Indeed, the amount that we budget for 2020 is lower than what was set in 2019, but why is that risky? Because it is based on a consciously distorting interpretation of what had been done. And what happened? In 2019, it contained two months in 2018. So we come in 2020 and we budget exactly the same, 740 million for 2020. Family allowances. And that is where I reply again to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, who, unfortunately, acts in the logic I have described, that of riskology and of untrueness, so as not to say anything worse. We budget for 2020 exactly the same amount as for 2019. We are, however, moving on to a crucial intervention. We call for the allowance to be given for children to attend school courses, and that is because we consider education to be a very important social mobility mechanism. Education and follow-up of courses, not just registration at school, as only had one measure in the SYRIZA period, that of minimum guaranteed income, we consider that it ensures a lower school leak, ensures lower poverty, lower social exclusion and substantial growth. Because for us it is an essential social policy. Increased promotional expenditure is part of a central governmental objective of strengthening family policy. And here I would remind you that the measure for birth is one of our measures for the family. In a few months' time of taking up our duties we have taken a number of decisions that actually mark this support for the parents who are our main priority. There we have already adopted two horizontal tax measures, EUR 1,000 tax free for each child and a reduction in value added tax for infants and children's seats from 24% to 13%. We also acted on restoring a chronic injustice in the tax treatment of multiple families by abolishing the luxury living tax for a passenger IX of six and more. Furthermore, our Government includes the multiples in the social dividend. The social dividend includes very targeted families with dependent members of AME, who will also receive social dividends regardless of family income and the age of a dependent member. We are for the first time applying the universal access of families to nursery services, starting from the school year 2020-2021, because we consider that nursery schools are a substantial development measure and because they build the country's human resources by integrating children from younger age into organised education structures, but also because it leaves women, since they want to join or reintegrate into the labour market, by themselves being able to claim higher responsibility in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the practical proof of compliance with the election commitments of the New Democracy, both with regard to the tax relief of citizens and businesses, and with the strengthening of expenditure on public policies that improve everyone's lives. The introduction of a grid of economic aid and pro-active services based on European data and social policy, which support the most vulnerable parts of society, strengthen the family and stimulate the country's development prospects, is a key objective of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and of the entire government. This objective is consistently and clearly served in the budget and I therefore ask you to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fourth circle of speakers with the first speaker, Mr Vagiona Georgios, from New Democracy, which I call on him to come to Stepma. Apostle will be followed by SYRIZA, Mr. Ljupis from New Democracy, and the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection will be inserted. Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the people are saying that the good day is seen from morning, so I will say fourteen words and I am voting in favour of the budget. So what have we achieved in the first five months of Mitsotakis governance and what do we have to say about the 2020 budget? First, despite the EUR 396 million deficit left by the previous government, this government managed to create a surplus of 436 million. It has cut the ENPI in mid-term, not for 2020, but for 2019, by 22%. This is interpreted by EUR 600 million that stayed in the pockets of people who paid ENPIA, the ENPIA who encouraged the world when it was established not to be paid, gentlemen of counterpopulation. And keep him for four and a half years without even harming him. It increased the heating allowance, which is granted directly. By 31 of the month we're done with the oil for which you've given 58 million. We are giving 68 and you are complaining why we do not include it in the 2020 budget. But since we give it to 2019, why should we put it in 2020? It covered emergency needs and costs of the Ministry of Defence and Health, 20 million for the Ministry of Defence for fuel and 35 million for the Ministry of Health, for hospitals. It supported the EKOs in order not to collapse, and in particular PPC, which you received a blossom, I dare say, with a value of EUR 3 billion, with a share of EUR 7 and a fortune of EUR 300 million and a price of the share of less than EUR 1. What does the PPC budget need? For this year it takes 150 to 200 million, because we need to serve the social security services and we are doing very well. It has legislated tax relief for all citizens and legal persons. Citizens with a income of 10 thousand euros had to pay at the lowest rate of 2,200 euros. With the 9% rate that we introduced, they pay 900 euros. In other words, they have a profit of EUR 1,300. For legal persons from 28% take him to 24% and for agricultural cooperatives only to 10%. We have facilitated recruitment in critical areas, such as health, education, security, to cover staff shortages. For 2020, the forecast for primary surplus amounts to 3.58% of GDP, namely 7 billion seven hundred million. I can't believe we're gonna catch this, but we're gonna get over 3%. State budget revenue is less than 55 billion, while spending is 57 billion and something. You will tell me: you want increased revenues from taxation and insurance contributions in 2019. This, although the rates of taxation and the rates of insurance contributions are reduced. This is due to the growth of the economy, to the growth of employment, to the best economic conditions, to the majority of jobs. To me, it is a post that the reduction in tax and insurance contributions entails a terrible reduction in taxation - tax evasion - tax - tax evasion. From 1-1-2020, the allowance of 2,000 euros is granted for each child born. The speaker from Mera25 told us "A great thing you did!". Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou did not comment that much. Yeah, we don't cover all the kids. But 90% we cover it. Those who have more than 50 thousand euros income don't get the allowance. They don't need it. I, Mrs Fotio, believe that the cost, since you want to criticise, will be EUR 160 to EUR 200 million. I wish it was 300 million, because that would mean that the births have increased and overcome deaths! Over the last eight years, we have thirty thousand deaths more than births, so two hundred and fifty thousand people less. If we add to them the six hundred thousand who left the country, we will soon not have Greece. We still anticipate a reduction in insurance contributions not for the main pension, but for what is the extra amount. It's 40.58%. At the moment, we are not at all affected by 35.58% for main insurance - to make this clear - from other sources, such as unemployment, labour and others. For renovations, energy, but also for the aesthetic upgrading of buildings, some of the costs paid off will be paid off electronically, i.e. debit cards and bank. We are making a special reserve, a special code to serve expenditure in the fields of education, health, social welfare, defence and security, which will be used throughout the year to cover regular, but also exceptional needs. We are restructuring the Public Investment Programme. This is done by strengthening the co-financed part. We are talking about adjusting the objective values on the basis of real values, even in areas which are unknown, of very high tourist value, with nice villas, so that these luxurious holiday homes, which are not taken into account, contribute to increasing collection and reducing burdens on citizens who have paid disproportionately high property taxes. It is speeding up the resolution of the outstanding tax disputes by means of the compromise procedure, which will dismantle the courts, which means increasing the revenues of the state budget. What the people say: The worst compromise is the best court. Health, money and time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u189	Mr Evangelos Apostleou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the entire 2020 budget project has two peculiarities that New Democracy does not want to defend. On the one hand, it is based safely on the stable economy, outside the memorials, on the SYRIZA government's mandate, and on the other, its dominant feature is the defiance of expectations that the New Democracy itself had created in many social strata and of course in the middle class, demolishing and saying excesses or lies to win the elections. What will happen is that legal persons and big shareholders are the big winners, and this shows that your basic ideological difference has nothing to do with our own approach. We believe that income inequalities are not being dealt with in this way, on the contrary they are being strengthened. The benefits of leaving the country from the memorials and lasting development over ten consecutive quarters, achieved by the SYRIZA government, are not only distributed fairly, but are distributed in exactly the same way that led us to the crisis and bankruptcy in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, I like the figures because they give the reality. At first glance, we find that the total tax will be increased by 2.5%. This increase is due, firstly, to the increase in indirect taxes, while the direct taxes have remained unchanged, resulting in the amount that these taxes represent in the sum of indirect and direct taxes increasing from 61.5% in 2019 to 62.1% in 2020, which is very simply, ladies and gentlemen, that the financial burden of the weaker classes will increase even further and, secondly, to the increase in taxes on natural persons. The result of this tactic is the percentage that the taxes of natural persons represent for income tax to increase from 71.3% in 2019 to 74% or 323 million euros. On the contrary, legal persons will be reduced from 28.7% to 26% or by 446 million euros. Of all this, the conclusion is that the Mitsotakis Government has chosen the camp. It abandons the same middle-class and chooses to favour the highest and highest-ranking business groups. The political choice, as shown by the budget itself, is to direct the money from the budget to legal persons and capitalists at the expense of the low strata. Thus, since the EUR 1,2 billion for 2020, 700 million have been traveling directly to the very rich, either by reducing the tax rate for legal persons or by reducing dividend taxes, making a direct gift to the pocket of the bourgeois and not to entrepreneurship, while cutting off the tenth pension in 2020. The new tax reliefs in enterprises amount to 616 million, while the suspension of VAT on new buildings for three years provides for losses of 26 million. The reduction in the taxation of legal persons and shareholder dividends is not necessarily an incentive to invest, but an incentive to distribute money. Also, PPC's increases, for example, the increase in contributions to EKKA, through the reintroduction of insurance classes, which have as their victims small farmers and microprofessionals, as well as the increase in objective values, are made in order to "lock" the targets for the primary surpluses, despite your election obligations to reduce. The expectations you have created, even after your government's responsibilities have been taken over, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you will find them before you. I particularly call on the rural area, where the political leadership of its ignorance of the problems of the area has turned it into a communication game. It is what is happening, for example, with the statement by the Minister for Rural Development and Food that there will be direct interference with the cost of oil by reducing its price. This does not seem to be reflected in the budget that we are discussing. He also mentioned the unawareness of the space, in his statement, of intervening in the cooperation of the rural area with the establishment of a new framework for their operation. And what he did right away do you know what it was? To table a late amendment with a view to neutralising a specific decision of the Council of State a few days ago on the solution of a cooperative. Because the Council of State took a constitutional view of the specific intervention of the Ministry of Agriculture, because it must finally take some order into account the operation of cooperative organisations. For all this, and particularly on a major issue relating to the debts of the rural area currently in existence as red loans, particularly in the 'BQA', the clearing company, and threaten to sell huge real estate assets necessary for agricultural activity, there was no talk of integrating them into the recent regulation we had on red loans. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, such behaviour also experiences our country's environmental and energy space. Paper exercises and communications statements on issues of both criminal activity, including citizens, but in particular on the criminal functioning of the state, in the absence of specific acts and in particular on the issue of prevention. For all this, as you can see, we are voting against your budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u191	Mr Lippe Athanasios has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft state budget for 2020 is the most sound proof that Greece is moving into a modern, competitive and growing European economy. At the same time, it turns out that the systematic work carried out jointly by the government in the second half of 2019 drastically changed the economic sizes and prospects of the country. The new data forecasts for 2020 twice as much as the European average. The notified difference in the 2020 budget in relation to the previous ones lies primarily in the spirit of budgetary policy. The current government is consciously choosing a completely different path for the Greek economy. The 3.5% surplus is achieved without the "bloody" overtaxation of households and businesses, as happened in previous years. On the contrary, we follow the most complex but also more efficient way. The tax system is reviewed and investment is given a real boost. In relation to taxation, the first basic steps have already been taken. Reduction of HISPIA midterms to 22%. Reduction of business tax to 24%. Reduction of dividend tax to 5%. Reduction of income tax for natural persons, with the scale starting from 9%. Suspension of VAT on buildings and value added tax for three years. Clearly, then, the New Democracy policy focuses on tax relief for all citizens and, at the same time, on increasing budgetary revenue through the real fight against tax evasion, increased labour and support for entrepreneurship. The chase of tax evasion has been a matter for all governments over time. What the current government stands out for is that it does not just depend on intensification of tax controls. On the contrary, it is making compulsory electronic payment for costs equal to 30% of taxable income, a measure of direct, simple and effective, since it is expected to increase from 20% to 40% in electronic payments. In the same direction, it is important to interconnect electronic and tax systems in the online betting market. At the same time, since April 2020, electronic books for professionals and businesses have been mandatory and electronic invoicing is gradually being applied. All of this would help to enable the administration to make rapid data cross-checks, to identify problematic businesses, to go to the target of controls. The growth in employment is the other major issue. The interventions to be made in the insurance system are a parameter for strengthening work. The Government plans to reduce the contributions by five percentage points over a period of four years starting from 2020, when the first reduction would be 0.9%. This, of course, presupposes a reduction in unemployment. It is also the attraction of new investments and the expansion of existing companies. The simplification of authorisations, the digitisation of procedures and the reduction of bureaucracy, which have already been legislated, make a decisive contribution to making Greece attractive for investors again. At the same time, the most stable and favourable tax environment created is another important factor in investing in our country. The existing companies see a great deal of improvement in their economic size, both with lower tax rates and with the possibility of adjusting debts to public and insurance funds. The Public Investment Programme is an important development pillar and is therefore being reshaped. It gives the co-financed part greater weight vis-à-vis the national, and this will bring greater development benefits. But all this cannot be done beyond and independently of an environment of social justice and social solidarity. The Government actively supports all social groups in need of assistance. Two thousand euros for every child born after 1-1-2020. All promotional, etc., benefits granted through the OPECA shall be maintained. All social structures, such as social pharmacies, grocery stores, etc., are being continued. The minimum guaranteed income is also increased to cover eight hundred thousand of our fellow people and a national action plan for disabled people is planned. Finally, particular attention is paid to the health sector. Hospitals are supported by nine hundred permanent doctors, two thousand nurses and a thousand five hundred qualified nurses a year, with the aim of covering all organic positions over four years. The aim is to create better and more quality health structures, with decent care conditions for all. In this context, vulnerable population groups, such as AMEs, can in a 24-hour period find the doctor they need and will of course be distributed home to oncological patients and disabled people. The 2020 budget is not just figures and economic forecasts. It is the best possible principle to build relationships with all: with Greek citizens and those who are going to invest in Greece. The constant and firm attitude of the Greek Government ensures the upward trend that the Greek economy and our country will have from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u193	The Deputy Minister for Civil Protection has the floor, Mr Kumouchakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, things are going well and will be better. This is the message, this is the essence of the first budget of our Government, the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Along with us, this thing feels, believes, and hopes that the Greeks, their great majority. You see it in the polls, you feel it on the streets, in the daily associations and conversations. So our responsibility becomes even greater. We must, in our action and even more with our behaviour, respond to the expectations of the people, not denying their hopes, with a reformist momentum, with institutional consistency, with social sensitivity. After all, all three are imposed by our ideological character and our ideological tradition. Respect democratic institutions, confidence in private initiative without immunity, support for the weak. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget lays solid foundations to address the biggest economic problem in recent years, namely the country's growth and investment deficit, a double deficit that in previous years it has eroded and hampered the prospects for greater growth and employment. It is a development and investment gap which in recent years has kept Greece in two frustrations within the European Union. We have received one Greece in the first place of unemployment rates and in the last place in 20 eight countries, this is the legacy of SYRIZA. The vicious circle of 'a few investments, a few jobs' must be broken and broken. The economy needs it, society requires it. How we will achieve this clearly says the budget submitted by the Government, and I am sure it will be approved by the Greek Parliament. Public revenues are increasing from economic growth, increased employment, while tax rates and insurance contributions are decreasing, while additional development interventions are being made and additional social benefits are being provided at the same time. We are thus doing our election commitment, giving businesses and natural persons tax, pushing forward to building, restructureing public spending, not at the expense of public policies, but as the total state budget expenditure for 2020 is projected to increase by EUR 772 million compared to the corresponding estimate of 2019. So the country's course is progress, it's an upward course. All efforts and care for the Prime Minister and the government are focused on this. But, ladies and gentlemen, these efforts for economic development, favoured social life, security and effective operation of the state are obviously not carried out in laboratory conditions, not in political vacuum. They are in the middle of serious challenges and difficulties that start, having their origins outside the country's borders. I am referring to the front of illegal immigration and the constant Turkish challenges against sovereign rights and our national rights and interests. Immediately, since the first days of our government's taking over and having received a leniently chaotic situation in immigration, we have been faced with a spectacular upturn in illegal immigration flows from Turkey, the result of geopolitical developments and a conscious policy of Ankara, which has incorporated the migration - refugee as a lever of pressure to achieve its strategic goals either in Syria or in Syria and additional financial aid from Europe. This conscious choice of Ankara confirms the unacceptable deficit response of the competent Turkish authorities, notably the militia and the coastguard, to the requests made by the respective Greek authorities. Cooperation between Greece and Turkey in the framework of the 2016 Euro-Turkish Declaration is difficult and problematic, with the responsibility of Turkey. At the same time, the recurring statements on the possible opening of the migration gates, which even the President of Turkey is making, act as an open challenge to traffickers, illegal immigrants and refugees to move west hoping or expecting that the gates will once open. These are statements received as threats to Europe and as an attempt to pressure Greece. Refugee is a national challenge of European dimensions. The struggle to deal with it is both internally and abroad, where efforts are being made to understand the great challenge that we are facing, in order to strengthen our positions, to ensure bilateral cooperation and support, in order to reconcile an effective European immigration and asylum policy. And that's the most crucial thing. In the great European negotiation, which is taking place now, our aim is along with the responsibility for us as a first-line country, to ensure essential, practical European solidarity, a solidarity which will not only be exhausted in words of understanding and financial support, because solidarity is beyond them, a real, fair burden-sharing, relocations of refugees and family reunifications and the hospitality of unaccompanied minors. It is a difficult objective because of the negative climate of migration and often fear prevailing in some countries of Europe. But all the partners must understand - and I say this from this Step forward - that our borders are not just our security, they are also their security. A balance between responsibility and solidarity is our firm line. On this we are ready for consultation, cooperation and joint proposals. And we have already taken concrete initiatives. Together with Bulgaria and Cyprus we have indicated that the main and most vulnerable front to Europe's migration is the Eastern Mediterranean. We have tabled concrete proposals for Europe to have an effective return and repatriation mechanism for refugees and immigrants in their countries of origin and origin. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. We will be tabling concrete proposals next month on how Europe can adopt a policy of effective response to traffickers' networks, which is the backbone of illegal immigration itself. We are present, and we will be present, because this issue of immigration can find the solution or the evacuation of the outside world, mainly. That is why we need convergence and consensus within the borders. National homogeneity is a constant demand, especially in a country with the external challenges that Greece is facing. It is particularly good - and I think everyone accepts it - that, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis first, the Government of New Democracy and other political forces have recently built a wall of national unity against Turkish provocation. That's why it sounded like a bump yesterday. At the time of the need for national consensus some voices of divided micropsy were heard. I would like to believe that yesterday was an unfortunate omission, a small parentheses that was opened and closed immediately. However, it is true that we must once - certainly not at this moment, not today - have a sober and bold debate on the truths and myths of Helsinki. I'm sure we'll have a lot to talk about then. For example, in what connection with border disputes, what are the relevant issues referred to in paragraph 4 of the Helsinki conclusions? Why does paragraph 12, dedicated to Turkey, only make it conditional on the fulfilment of the Copenhagen political criteria and nothing more than that? Why did we not make progress in the period from 1999 to 2004 on a promise to make the difference in The Hague, and this should be closed in a few months, during the first months of the Karamanlis government? These are questions waiting for answers when we discuss them. Now, however, the country needs - and should - to look forward. The messages are very positive. The dynamics are particularly positive. Things are going well. This is confirmed by the budget that I shall vote with all my strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u195	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, let me make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, nineteen students and students and four educational sessions from the Elementary School of Lower Neuroscope Dramas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Burhan Barran has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, our time is marked by rapid developments and constant retractions in the international scene, and that is why, for normal social coexistence, well-being and the security of citizens, there is a need for a fair state. The people's confidence in their leadership has disappeared, so that horse and uncontrolled anger prevails against anyone who has anything to do with political and economic power. According to the Government, the 2020 budget is the last one submitted under the budgetary adjustment programmes and signals the country's exit from this period. Nevertheless, it is an undevelopmental, socially unfair budget, with victims once again of small and medium-sized incomes, because it is based on the constant tax burden on small and medium-sized incomes, low public investment and artificial restraint of expenditure. The budget provides for a primary surplus of over EUR 7 billion, undermining growth. It fully serves the obligations of the former Government, which the present Government does not seem to challenge, as promised. For example, in Xanthi, companies in their attempt to avoid unbearable taxation reduce their jobs and transfer their headquarters to other Balkan countries, especially Bulgaria, so unemployment in the region reaches 45%, and especially to the construction sector, which leads the wider region of Thrace to a complete economic slump. The fleeing of human labour to foreign workers is a great loss of development but also of wider social policy and national dynamics, the results of which I as a psychiatrist experience on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of representing part of the citizens of Xanthi who have elected me, and that is why I cannot help but mention the reduced budget for the decentralised administration of Macedonia and Thrace. In 2019, funding for the decentralised administration of Macedonia and Thrace amounted to 42. EUR 992 000, while for 2020 the amount is EUR 42 245 000. This is therefore a reduction of EUR 750,000 and all of this in an area which is difficult, which is an economic and cultural hub and which is not an investment incentive. Now, according to what is provided for in the bill on hospitals and primary health care, there is a negative hospital balance. In the 2019 budget forecast, the hospital balance was EUR 96 million, and for 2020 we have a reduction of EUR 25 million. In addition, the poor funds from the Public Investment Programme for primary health care from EUR 10 million in 2019 shall be reduced to EUR 8 million for 2020. It is clear that while the health system is falling apart, the government is cutting the relevant funds. So what about the country's hospitals? A characteristic example is the General Hospital of Xanthi, which faces serious problems in its operation due to huge cuts in state funding in the health sector, as well as most of the country's hospitals, which should be more effectively employed by the government to ensure adequate funding, in order to upgrade health services. Greece ranks at the latest among the OECD member states, with regard to health expenditure, which is limited to 4.8% of GDP compared to an average of 5.7% of OECD members, so that our country takes the fourth position. On the other hand, the New Democracy has not lost time to prepare the ground to move forward with the IMF's tax cuts policy, as opposed to uncontrolled provision of allowances to SYRIZA government, without the appropriate criteria and conditions, of course, by penalising the citizen. We, ladies and gentlemen, are in favour of fair provision of benefits, with the aim of supporting the truly weak social strata that PASOK has always been and is on their side, so that there can finally be social justice. It is worrying, too, that the cash balance of primary health care hospitals, which is not only negative, but from less than EUR 135 million, is being launched at EUR 450 million. Why is this growth in the cash deficit? However, we must stress that the establishment of the special reserve at EUR 300 million, on which the Ministry of Health is also founded to fill the gaps in hospitals and in the EAW, shows how much the government trusts its own predictions. It would be important to fail to emphasise at this point the issue of EEAS, where for the financial year 2019 a surplus of EUR 330 million is estimated, and for 2020 a surplus of EUR 308 million is foreseen. We must not forget that the over-excession of the EOPY results from reductions in benefits to the insured citizen. For many years, the drug system has been intact and in 2010 PASOK's PASOK Government adopted innovative measures such as e-prescription, the pricing of medicinal products on the basis of Europe's three lowest prices, the steady decreases in clawback and rebate prices. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens expect you to make areas for the improvement of the National Health System on the basis of the population's current needs and not to bring bills with concise debates that do not solve citizens' problems, rather than are excellent textures. So we are calling on you today, on the basis of the proposals we have put forward as a Movement of Change, to have a political will for health, to create something long and definitive in the standards of developed European countries. To conclude, I quote: 'Alas, as Minister of Health, has fought great battles to humanize the conditions of care and health care, which in an interview on September 29, 1993, he said: 'Alas, if we let the technocrats decide on their own. But alas, if we politicians are to decide the interpretation of the technocrats without their opinion. Above all, it needs not an opinion and knowledge, but a knowledge, to understand that no one can, either with his political opinion or with his technical knowledge, ignore people." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u197	Mr Efstratios Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the recipe is well known and successful, as the Government has shown with its thirty-two bills to date. Reduction of taxes, increase of investment, rationalisation of public spending and social solidarity actions. The budget that we have to vote on is moving within these limits and in conjunction with the efficiency of the government will be implemented in the best possible way. That is why I am saying that I am voting for him and I urge you to do the same. Nevertheless, because I believe that the role of the Member is also a 'emergency' for the transfer of institutional demands of society, but also for transfer to the society of the views of the government, I will raise a few issues in two areas. One sector is the infrastructure, and the second is the use of real estate. In infrastructure I begin with a key finding, namely that over time all governments, starting just before 2004, agree that our country should and can become a combined transport centre. In order to do this, however, we must move with intensity and consistency on all the necessary roads, rail and port projects, as well as works at airports. I read recently - I was rather informed - that a government commitment that is being implemented is the creation of a structure with the Prime Minister headed by the Minister of State, which will monitor the implementation of the central infrastructures. The main axes are referred to in it. I imagine they also mean all the roads linking the capital laws or linking the capital laws to the mainstream network. This structure cannot be included, for example, in the necessary connection between Karpesi, Florina or Drama and, of course, projects which are mature, such as the Drama-Kavala road, not to be implemented directly and to give priority to a road, for example, less mature, such as the Drama-Amphipolis road. At the same time, the rail links between our ports must be brought about. Such a work is completely mature and is the connection of the commercial port of Kavala to the Archbishops. Rail projects must be our priority, but this priority - I am referring to the Ministry of Infrastructure - must start from the completion of the signalling and telecommuniqué of the Thessaloniki-Athens axis and also the renovation of the Thessaloniki-Alexandroupolis-Ormeni line, a very important line, a project that must be at the top of the government effort. I would also like to know whether there is a new generation under the concession of airports. The first succeeded fully. There's gonna be a second? We also have infrastructures that are ready - and not many know it - that are not working. For ten years we have had a ready Platma Center, which has been in charge of the Ministry of Infrastructure and of course of the Building Infrastructure company and we import plasma. Millions of euros from abroad. What will the government do to start the operation of the Platform Center or the Education and Social Support Centres? These operate, ladies and gentlemen, and must work alongside the Ministry of Culture. These centres may be tourist attraction. I have many examples like Halkidiki. I now come to the issue of real estate development. There the gentlemen of SYRIZA inherited the famous Greek Company of Participation and Property. Within the budget, Minister, I see that you are clearly describing and on many pages what this company should do. Is he doing it? Are we happy? Is it going like this or not? As far as I know, let's say, the ETA, to which this company belongs and which of course has an administration that comes from the past, like the company's previous shareholders, has thousands of properties that are waiting in the tail to be exploited. What will the government do in this direction? I now come to an important issue concerning our Armed Forces. That's where we have a huge fortune. But in local communities, the idea of 'give the camps to the people' has passed. I'll fill out: for our unemployed children to take a walk. There, therefore, we need to overcome the cross-party objections of local societies and move on to make use of them. With individuals? Yeah, with privates. In fact, the money will go to a fund which will be to strengthen the Armed Forces to strengthen our armaments programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. I now come to an issue which is similar to the previous one. Yes, it is time for the occupied buildings to evacuate and go to this fund, not as some colleague from SYRIZA said, who claimed to be centres of cultural creation. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is listening. He worked with MPs on the issue of VAT on building, vegetable permits, business centers, the allowance for families with a child of AMEA dependant on over twenty-four years of age. I hope that she will do the same in the future with the traffic charges of families with dependent children of MEDA over eighteen years of age, from Haircut to small and medium-sized enterprises, from the advance that we were also inherited by SYRIZA and from the point of view of the integration of the old OSH shareholders as a way of compensation. We're chain rings, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we have to do. We have a government that really listens, walks on the right path and which I support unreservedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the second following the country's exit from the memoranda in August 2018, following the design and implementation of memorial policies by the SYRIZA Government for a short period of a few months and following the parliamentary elections to elect a new government majority, different from the previous one. Let us not forget that, contrary to what happened with SYRIZA in 2015, the New Democracy did not only receive burnt land, but a country without memorials, regulated its debt, with a 15-year free runway, stock of 37 billion euros, followed by nine quarters of growth, unemployment which was reduced to 17% of the 26% received in 2015. In this context, the 2020 budget provides for significant tax relief for financially sound. Of the twenty-nine 'unjust' SYRIZA tax - so the New Democracy has falsely declared - only the tax on company profits is reduced from 28% to 24%, which will ultimately be reduced by about six thousand companies or 2.5% of all companies and about 40% of the benefit will be fruited by about two hundred companies with annual profits of more than 7.5 million euros and tax relief will be provided for the distributed dividends from 10% to 5%. The budget burdens low and medium-sized incomes, natural persons, in order to alleviate legal constraints, while providing for an increase in VAT and excise duty on goods and services, i.e. an increase in indirect taxes. The budget not only relieves the middle layers, but on the contrary disguises the hopes for an improvement in their economic situation that New Democracy had announced and cultivated, such as large increases in PPC tariffs, which not only cancel the 13% reduction in VAT voted on governance SYRIZA, but they will increase in the near future because of the carbon dioxide tax clause on households and businesses. There are 22% charges under the recent tax law to those who do not spend 30% of their income on electronic proof. The imminent increases in insurance contributions burdens through the planned reintroduction of insurance classes will be even more burdened by medium and low levels. Through the 2020 budget income inequalities, ladies and gentlemen, are being strengthened. In other words, SYRIZA's policy is reversed, which had begun to mitigate these inequalities after the legacy of the memoranda, which had led to the impoverishment of the middle layers and marginalisation of the populace. Thus, the Government annulls, repeals measures of the SYRIZA Government designed, announced and intended to be implemented in 2020. It cancels the 50% tax advance for free professionals and businesses, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000 and its drastic reduction for higher incomes, the reduction in VAT from 13% to 11%, the increase in depreciation rate to 150%, the reduction in taxation for cooperative farmers, the reduction in agricultural oil, the reduction in the cost of heating oil in mountain areas and other measures. The question is whether the budget through tax relief for large enterprises has a development investment dimension. The answer is negative because the structure of the Greek economy based on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is ignored and only large companies and large foreign investors are supported. In fact, ‘investment’ is directed to non-productive sectors and not to sectors that incorporate new technologies and produce goodwill. The new development law proves it. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve growth, the New Democracy Government could use the budget space corresponding to the reductions in the tax on profits and dividends in another way, namely to take targeted measures to boost investment in productive sectors by increasing the depreciation rate to 150%, to take measures such as the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 that strengthen demand and lead to further reductions in unemployment and, of course, not to exert extreme anti-competitive policy by undermining collective labour agreements, the abolition of the right to refereeship, the abolition of the justification for redundancies, which leads to a reduction in wages, thus also to a reduction in the purchasing power of households, which undermines demand and hence the development prospects of the economy. Through the budget, the social state, which by 2014 had been cancelled with the policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK and which had been reinstated under the government of SYRIZA, accepts a strong blow leading to regression. This is reflected in the budget to be voted on. Its two main pillars, education and health, the biggest victims of the monumental policies, are at the forefront of government policy, which directs both education and health to private interests and then merchandises the corresponding social goods. For the first time, the welfare budget is reduced. Since there is no time, I will only refer to the reduction of the state subsidy to the ECA. As far as unemployment is concerned, in addition to the negative development of recent months, the budget is limited by the actions of the OAD by reducing its funding. Ladies and gentlemen, the development and tax law recently passed, but also all the legislative initiatives of the New Democracy Government, are at the forefront of reflecting its neoliberal perception. It is said that the beginning is half of everything. The policies currently being pursued, which have been announced since the elections and the 2020 budget, demonstrate that the New Democracy Government has rapidly completed everything since the beginning of its term of office, in order to take advantage of the tolerance time that has always been given to the new governments, to create and prevent generalised reactions of middle and grassroots strata. But it seems he won't make it. The world has begun to understand, by collecting the electoral deception and post-election and within a short time experience the practical implementation of these neoliberal policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u201	Mr Ioannis Melas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the start of the budget debate, almost all of the SYRIZA colleagues have blamed the New Democracy Government for the budget we are bringing to the vote on the National Representation. You are blaming us that this budget is neither social nor developmental. In fact, when the budget was submitted, Mr Chakalotos said he would not shock the middle class. Mr Tsakalotos was right at that time. Because SYRIZA was the one who shocked the middle class with the taxes he brought and the contributions. You have overcome the middle class and charged the Greek economy and society with 5.5 billion euros, bringing new taxes and increasing old taxes. In order to understand the difference between us, you have brought EUR 5.5 billion in the period 2015-2019 and we, in the first five months of our governance, bring tax reductions of more than EUR 1 billion. And because you blame us on the fact that the 2020 budget is not social, let's go see what we've done. Does the reduction in the import rate for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 from 22% to 9% not concern low incomes? Do you disagree? The provision to increase the minimum guaranteed income to EUR 1 billion, which concerns eight hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, does not concern minimum incomes and socially vulnerable groups? Do you disagree? Let me remind you that a few days ago the constitutional review was completed, and for the first time the minimum guaranteed income was guaranteed and constitutionally. Did the reduction of HPAI by 22%, which has already been implemented, not relate to the middle-class and low incomes? And there's another reduction in HISPIA. Is the improvement in the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments of debt to the insurance funds and taxation not related to the middle-class and low-income? Does the extension of the protection of the first residence until April 2020, which was voted on a few days ago, not concern the middle class and low incomes? Is the EUR 2,000 allowance for each birth from 1-1-2020 not a social measure to address the vital problem of the demographic problem? Is that not a social measure? To be clear, ideological and class selection was the overtaxation of the middle class. For us, the great liberal party of the place, with our deep patriotic conscience, our strategic choice and aim is to reduce the tax burden for both citizens and businesses. This is achieved with the 2020 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the first budget for the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Our aim is to create a modern and efficient state in the service of the citizen. This budget provides for a growth of 2.8% for 2020, while in the first half of 2019 growth was only about 1.5%. You're blaming us that we're overreacting and we're not going to catch the targets. But let us remind you - because you have probably forgotten - that in the 2017 budget you predicted growth of 2.7% and achieved 1.5% in the 2018 budget, you predicted growth of 2.5% and you achieved growth of 1.9% in the 2019 budget and that in the 2019 budget you predicted growth of 2.5% and growth will be shaped close to 2%. This significant increase in the perspective of growth for 2020 is not being done with miracles but with the concrete plan of our Government, which is being implemented at a rapid pace from the first day we have already undertaken the country's governance. We have received a budget gap of EUR 400 million and have shaped it into a surplus of EUR 1 billion. We have achieved the overall upgrading of the Greek economy, with the complete lifting of the capital controls, which you brought, with the early repayment of the loan to the IMF, with the HARAKLIS project to support and reduce the red loans of the Greek banks. With the 2020 budget, we are therefore ensuring social cohesion and social solidarity. We aim to tackle poverty and social exclusion by increasing the available income for citizens. At the same time, the sense of security for citizens is also strengthened either at home, at work or at universities and generally in their daily lives. It is our strategic choice, which has begun to be implemented and continued every day, with the effective treatment of crime and terrorism, with the abolition of asylum at universities, by tightening penalties for criminal offences, by strengthening security bodies. With regard to the difficult problem of immigration, it is planned to manage better by operating closed temporary reception and hospitality centres, and to tackle illegal immigration. At the same time, with the operation of the Single Terrestrial and Maritime Border Surveillance Body and the use of modern technical means, we will have better control over our maritime and land borders. For us there are borders and we do not negotiate them. They must be kept and kept. As far as investment is concerned, our Government is taking steps to implement investment and privatisation more quickly, with the aim of making better use of public property for the benefit of citizens and creating many and well-paid jobs. We immediately unlocked the emblematic investment in the Greek, which was in danger of being blown into the air. We also proceed with our investment in the 'COSCO' in Piraeus, which you originally chased as a government, but then you compromised. The only thing that we are going to pursue 'COSCO' is to invest even more in Piraeus and the wider region and to be convinced that the city that hosts their investment will have to support it at other levels, develop social action in the city and establish substantial relations with citizens and local society. The same is the reduction in dividend taxation from 10% to 5%, as well as the tax incentives we give to boosting and revitalising building activity, speeding up and simplifying procedures for the start of investment, combating bureaucracy with the digital interconnection of the state, addressing tax evasion and the globe economy, reforming the Public Investment Programme and making greater and better use of Community funds. In short, the Greek economy and business as well as the citizens are returning to normality and strong growth. The 2020 budget does not concern either the few or the many. It concerns all Greeks, far from ideological and micropolitical interests. We are putting an end to the over-taxation of citizens and businesses, but also to the misery of the Greek economy. We are giving solutions to important problems of the daily lives of citizens and we are not creating new ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people see and compare our responsible policy with your irresponsible demagogue. With the Government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis we turn to the past and design the present, creating a better future for the next generations. With this position, I invite you to vote in favour of the 2020 budget and to support the work of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u203	Mrs Lianna Kanelle, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has been following the meeting since the morning thinks he is living on another planet. We live on another planet. It is all so nice, so developed, so practically, so thoroughly arranged, that there was also a interlocutor who said here 'we can also butter and cannon'. This is our future: butter and cannon! Now that the cannons produce butter for the few and along with the butter, they produce also handicapped, they produce also refugees, that is not for the butterflyers! I've heard the Minister say the numbers are perverted. I'm going to talk about social welfare today. And the numbers may prosper, they may not prosper, but they never lie and especially the language does not lie. The word "prosperity" in Greek means in advance to predict needs and risks. That's what it means. In Byzantium, what did it mean for welfare? Another thing, we have to lay ground on soldiers. Another thing in Byzantium is welfare. Hippocrates, when he was talking about health, did not speak of physical and mental, only of the environment. So if I go to the number, I have behind me - what do I have in welfare? - a third memorandum, which provided for a very nice word called "functionality" 30% of all welfare care, 30%. You come today as a government and you implement this. You can't do anything else. You interact with each other in a system where welfare has forgotten how it emerged. You're talking about vulnerable groups. In vulnerable groups, who's attacking? The concept of welfare as a state structure is born in London in 1834 or 1835 with the famous poverty law. So who are the vulnerable? The poor. How are the poor produced? On their own? Were they born poor? Greek movie, melody, optimism, wonderful things and talk in here. It has nothing to do with capitalism, it has nothing to do with imperialism, it has nothing to do with the economic system we live in, it has nothing to do with the invention of the bourgeoisie to build a welfare state, because it has to deal with the class system in which the majority of the workers fall. And today we have the care to be the KEPA slaughterhouses, to be the reactionary KEDA and to go now to the essence of the numbers. Family allowances are reduced by 30 million euros. The housing allowance of 51 million euros in this year's budget. The allowance of uninsured over-ages of EUR 4 million, for over-aged people, will die an hour ago! The disability benefits are reduced by 173 million, and from 913 million to 740 million. That's what the numbers say. The numbers aren't telling the truth. The figures even if what I said to you instead of putting them on a fine less fine plus nothing to do with actual welfare. Essential welfare is infrastructure above all, they are workers above all, they are materials above all. We live in a country where, for example, deaf from nineteen to sixty-five gets no allowance, deaf over 67%. Not at all! He takes it up to twenty-four if he's a student, or he stops being deaf! To get the allowance, after completing forty-five cards, he must be apart from deafness - his fate is not enough to be deaf, no - he must have something as heavy as that. No allowance, no disability, deafness. You want to tell me what? That in Greek and casino you will fill it with deaf ones, why will they find a job in this kind of development to which you are going? You won't. A grant of EUR 300 to autistics, where the restrictions were made. You're not telling me what's going to cover these pools? Do you know how much a pool does? You are talking to treat as a care for the disabled. I'll get you an example. The blind also have a Blind House, which is full of donations, if it were a non-governmental organization or a private affair, which would not pay HISHA. The PICA and the Blind House for all the property they have paid for HICPIA. Let me tell you a way of getting them from the disabled too, because you have done a trick for years now all the governments in the budget. What have you done? From the second memorial and then you took care from her essence where she went with health and took her to work and so the funds don't actually show up in the budget, they're hidden. They're hidden and cuts, they're all hidden in budgets. Muga in the grog, they don't look. If you put the state budget along with all the rest of it with this shitty shit, it doesn't seem like anything. And it seems suddenly you do very great things, because it's a great thing to give 2,000 for a child to be born and to come out deaf I want you to. You should have a deaf kid beaten up and tell me when he's going to get the child's allowance. Why are you talking about a population in which, based on functionality, the OECD drawers have been opened, you two hundred thousand and fifty thousand are receiving a disability allowance. Did you know? Do you know how many people are really disabled in Greece? They're five hundred thousand and you're talking about disability when the other one gets to his last when we talk about welfare. When you talk of care, then, let me give you an example that you tell me you will give benefits. Partially sighted children are not disabled and may not be made for the rest of their lives if they put special glasses. How many special glasses do you know? It's 3,500 grand. Who pays them $3,500? The unemployed parent? No, nobody. They want a special screen. Oh, no. You print books with bigger letters? Oh, no. But we'll have computer connections, because we're going to be a modern state. That's the money. Someone who has a child with limited vision wants 500 euros a month to obtain the material so that the child can see. Don't you dare compare with the infrastructure. Is there even an investment in infrastructure in the abandoned huge buildings? Do you not tell me what benefits you are giving when workers in houses where people cannot live, what care do you receive for the disability of the time called Alzheimer's, ladies and gentlemen - both the previous and the next? What care do you get for Alzheimer's? What parent, what man, what child, what nephew, what relative, twenty-four hours a day to be faced with a parent with Alzheimer's? What structure is the Alzheimer's? Welfare is the future prediction of future needs and all of you call it a disease of the century. Who can tell you where you're gonna put the parent when they're two unemployed or a unemployed person or two on the road for a piece of money and a piece of bread? Where are the infrastructures underneath? These are real welfare benefits. Do you have any program to build fifty houses hosting these people with real structures, with workers who know them and watch them? No, you don't have it, and you're never gonna fix it, because it doesn't bring any money back. Casino's what to bring? An hour ago to get up and leave this rheumatism life. Without any one of you thinking that we are all exposed to a fall that makes us disabled, to a blow that makes us disabled, to a shift of health that makes us Alzheimer's or full of dementia, with an early Alzheimer's, early Alzheimer's, in an early dementia. To multiple sclerosis. And I hear my colleague here unregulated talking about the capitalisation system and insurance and saying connect it to income. What do you say? It's the answer. And I say it very consciously as a baby, a male of her surname's baby. Is it possible to say that you will connect it to income? One who suffers from multiple sclerosis today walks and goes to work, does not walk tomorrow, does not have a job. Will you get him the allowance and cut it out depending on how the employer brings it to him in relation to his illness? And the same thing happens for a series of people. Fish from those who get nothing, are partially disabled and from the lack of infrastructure with ancillary staff every five, six months in structures with people who will always stay inhabited and will not be able to integrate and will not be able to move...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u205	Mrs. Canelle, please, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your understanding, but I am very afraid that special needs also require time, economic, political and ideological definitions. Why do you know something? It is not a question of dealing with vulnerable groups without diving in their hand to the sin of sovereign politics and the dominant reason that does not recognize anyone. If you're alive. If you don't have one, you don't live. That is all one deserves to vote against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u207	Mr Keletsis Stavros has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u208	I would just like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the previous one, Mrs Canelley, which I have listened very carefully to in relation to social policy and the social state and its observations, which were correct in the sense that there is, in fact, this deficit in the Greek state, that, in order to make social policy, there must first of all be money and that money must come from the development of the economy. So you have to have a strong economy to have a part of this part in social policy. Otherwise, your remarks were important, serious and true. But without money a state cannot do social policy. This budget is the first budget after the major political change that took place in July. It is the last budget that is being made under the narrow corset that, as we know, has put the memorials all this previous tough, really, period for Greek society. It is not only the institutions that are responsible but we too, by paying for a policy of defence which we have done over the last few years before the memorials, to lead to these deadlocks that we have led. It is also a budget that will put us in a new era of normality that we are looking for. I am consciously not referring to a return to normality, because in my opinion, normality has never existed in the modern Greek state. Because alas, if we return to normality before 2010 and 2011, which has led us to the deadlocks and which will lead us again, if we go to it, to the same vicious circle by applying new memorandum and new tough policies. It is also the 2020 budget, ladies and gentlemen, a budget for the implementation of the election commitments of the new government resulting from the elections. It is the implementation of our policy as approved by the Greek people and in this sense it is a budget of credibility, because perhaps we are the first government of post-population that we have said beforehand, that is precisely what we are doing and that is something more than that. Reduction of taxation. We said it, we started it, we started it and we'll finish it within four years. Reducing the ENPIA, freezing VAT on construction, all these are measures which we promised and which we are implementing. At the same time, however, with our policy and with this budget, we come to disprove all the arguments we have heard in the election and which I remind you that today's opposition said: 'If the New Democracy comes, if the Mitsotakis comes, the social state will be destroyed, all the benefits will be abolished, all of what the previous government has provided will be abolished'. I would remind you that all of this with the opportunity that has given us the surplus that exists since the implementation of our policy is being done today. In the field of taxation, there is not a single social group which is additionally burdened with this budget. On the contrary, but all the categories of Greek citizens are natural persons, whether they are households, or business, they see their tax burden falling. They accept a better taxation policy. Tax relief reaches 1,2 billion euros and, indeed, is crocodiles the tears which today's anti-population for the middle-class, which we are constantly hearing from anti-population speakers in the debate that is taking place these days, that we supposedly promised more in the middle-class and do not implement them. Who, though, enjoys these measures that I have said before, the reduction of taxation, rates, the reduction of HISVA, the suspension of VAT on construction? Aren't these about middle class too? Of course, they are also in the middle class. After all, what is the middle class, this is a definition that is difficult to identify and identify to a large extent subjectively. At the same time, along with the reduction of taxation, we are creating a friendly framework for investments, for large and smaller investments, such as the first and best contagious investment of the Greek. We move on to the privatizations in PPC, PPC, Athens International Airport, in the peripheral ports and move on to the development of public property. The reduction of taxation and privatizations along with the financing of enterprises from the banking system are a key factor in investment and in sustainable development. I now come to the third factor, the financing of businesses from the banking system. Already with much careful but stable moves, we have come to create and create a framework that is much more friendly and much more functional when it comes to financing businesses. I would remind you that for the first time, the country is borrowing at a negative interest rate, which has an impact and an impact on bank borrowing rates, on loans, both to natural persons and to business loans, which, above all, are of interest to us in the development issue. Furthermore, the regulation of the framework we made last week with the "HRAKLIS" framework regulation scheme, also ensures stability in the banking system, so that it can reliably feed entrepreneurship into the Greek economy. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are also faced with challenges within 2020. First of all, we are faced with the challenges of reforms in the functioning of the state, which the state itself operates in the way it operates today as an incentive to the economy, as an investment incentive. So we have a lot of work to do in the resolution of the public sector in many areas, in the digitisation of the state, as much as Mrs Kanelle has ironed out, but it is very important for growth. But we also have the challenge of the new agricultural policy. In this year we must make the advance so that we have the foundations, set the framework for the negotiation of the new CAP and adapt the objectives set by the European Union for the new CAP, namely: environmental protection, new technologies in agriculture with the needs of the Greek economy. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing. Two words are key to the functioning of a government and the development of the country. One is the word credibility, credibility to the citizens, credibility toward entrepreneurship, credibility to the outside. The second word is trust. And trust is earned by credibility. The more reliable the government is between words and works, words and actions, pre-election promises and post-election measures, the more it enjoys greater confidence from the people. So we in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, together with the people and society, trust this government, give it a vote of confidence and vote on the 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Hatzyannakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it becomes clear day after day that the New Democracy Government has not only learned nothing from the serious mistakes and atrocities of the past, but continues with all these diseases that led to a multi-level crisis and bankruptcy. The worst thing, in fact, is not that you did not make a sign of self-criticism but that you returned determined to repeat the same anti-social and dangerous policies. Of course, after so many years of looting of the memoranda and bankruptcy of the country, you have found a financial area, a financial area, and you have decided to make use of it in the way that you have known all these years very well. In the 2020 budget, the government remains almost obsessed with the same neoliberal dogmas and growth models. These are the same models of development that have now been shown throughout the world to lead nowhere, but only intensify social inequalities, as has been done so far, and unfortunately make the richer and poorer. Even systemic organisations such as the OECD, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund point out that such policies are a brake on economic development. It seems, however, that all these are fine letters for the government, which in just five months' time has prevented it not only from opposing its election promises of better paid jobs for everyone, but also getting a strong blow to collective bargaining, thereby bringing wage cuts from the back door. Of course not for everyone. Our "ours" children and our "ours" are enjoying significant increases from the previous government. Also, in these four months you have dismantled critical control mechanisms, effectively abolishing both the ILO and the AEA. You offered no substantial relief to small and medium-sized enterprises, but instead you tightened up the dolphin with the 'HRAKLIS' project, which was just passed last week, although you advertised it as salvation, supposedly the banking system and the economy. You revealed that Greece's vision of the fourth industrial revolution is based solely on construction and tourism. So the same thing you were telling us before a crisis, exactly the same model you are trying to bring back now. We are therefore not being wiser, ladies and gentlemen, with the budget you have tabled. Like the development bill you voted on, such as the tax bill you voted on, the budget is summarised in the doctrine "Without any planning, give it all to the capital and make your cross", in full contrast to what you have announced in the election to alleviate the middle-class that you deceived and which actually does not take advantage of this budget at all. Even any positive measures contained in this budget are based on two variables, which are not only uncertain, but are lame. One is the projection of 2.8% which neither the Bank of Greece nor the BSE nor any international organisation shares. But even if we assume that in some magical way we will catch this pace, all the positive measures you claim to be taking in favour of the middle class are based on a 560 million-dollar budget pillow, which you claim will be taken from tax evasion. Anything you've found and want to fill in, you've decided to put it in, you're supposed to fight tax evasion. You said the same thing in the period 2012-2014, with the only difference that you are not even saying now that you will strengthen the control mechanisms. You've done away with them all anyway. You present it as a result of increasing electronic transactions to 30%. This is not only uncertain, but it will in fact be very burdensome if this uncertain objective is not taken over again by small and medium-sized incomes. Last year, for example, the 10% difference we had in electronic transactions was 32 million - the extra tax imposed - and 28 million were covered by small incomes. You, the 560 million, how are you going to catch them, and finally who will be burdening them? I fear that, when you do not catch these targets at the end of the year, you will impose new taxes which we very well guess who will be burdening. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a reference to the forecasts of this budget in the field of local government, from which I have the honour of coming. In the four-year period 2010-2014, local government suffered a overwhelming decrease in its regular revenues by 63%. However, local government has endured, although the Public Investment Plan at the time was really destroyed. The government of SYRIZA after taking over - and especially since 2016 - has decided to create a sustainable and comprehensive model of leverage for the unexploited resources of the Public Investment Programme, the well-known "PHILDIMOS". That's what we did, actually. We have taken the unexploited sums of the Public Investment Programme through the Deposit and Loan Fund and the European Investment Bank, and we have been able to provide the municipalities and the public with very important projects for local communities, water, sewerage, rural road projects, children's joys, too many projects, which were needed by local communities who had to see projects for over a decade. Unfortunately, such an important programme as this was too heavy for you to be seen as a success of the SYRIZA government and you had to smash that away, and say that it has no guaranteed funds. Of course, Mr Muratoglou, the Secretary-General of the CEDEFOP and a very good knowledge of the economics of the municipalities, and completely devastated you. Two things may happen: Or you don't understand the mechanism of the "Philodimos" program or you just want to smash it, to appear as the same program but under another name and you want to return to the model of mayors - beggars, who have to go through the ministries, by the Interior Minister for a project for their country. Whatever happens, it is at least dangerous and must at least ensure that this programme is continued and given the breath that municipalities and citizens have needed over the years. In conclusion, I would like to make a very brief reference to islandity and the budget forecast in relation to island policy, although Mr Nektarios Santorinios said so earlier. We, at least, have not been able to understand this: The competitions of the barren lines which you are now transferring from the central government's expenditure to the Public Investment Programme are 140 million. Within these 140 million is supposed to fit the transport equivalent, which was a constant demand for both the island chambers and all the islands and which our government has established, but also the projects to be made in the port infrastructure and the ferry connections to the ferry lines. I guess something is missing from the arithmetic, and we can't find out how all this will fit to 140 million, which in fact only cover the competitions of the barren lines. You have to explain it to us in the process because we probably didn't understand. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government can believe that the absolute protection of the media can indefinitely have it in the unprecedented and comfortable of baptizing the fish, falsifying the Greek people and especially the middle class on which you supported your election account. As I said, however, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs a few days ago during the budget debate, fairy tales have dragons and the dragon in the budget being voted on is your insistence on policies that have destroyed the country and humiliated our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u211	Mr Stavros Kalogannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2020 state budget, which was drawn up in the context of the reintroduction of the national economy to normal pace and regaining the country's credibility. The country's external environment is now characterised by increased uncertainty. The Eastern Mediterranean is at risk from Turkey's provocative behaviour. In the Balkans, there are outbreaks of instability, while in Europe the Brexit is now finally being launched. Greece, however, has a clear policy, as the Foreign Minister pointed out a moment ago: 'We can be alone, but we will not be alone'. Europe is committed to protecting its borders and will do so. Those who don't understand it assume their responsibilities. In this context, the 2020 budget serves specific economic and social objectives, taking into account the ideological principles of the New Democracy, social liberalism, the programming commitments of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the limitations in which the country operates. The 2020 budget shows that the national economy has gained positive momentum that is stabilised and improved. After long-term adventure, it comes out to the “extinction” and has already been shaped a positive climate. This is demonstrated by the successful interest rate and quality of bond issues and interest stamps, the interest rates of which are currently negative. It is evidenced by the fact that the budget has received the assent of the institutions and, in fact, without any remarks, before even a preliminary draft has been submitted to the House. It is also demonstrated by the significant improvement of the Economic Climate and Consumer Confidence Index. As the State Budget Office points out in the House, the budget achieves the budgetary objective. Of course, there are no prescriptions for final solutions. Uncertainties continue to exist and should be checked during the current year and the following year. For example, I mention the control of the effectiveness of electronic transactions, so that the additional forecast revenues are paid. So the dangers are neglecting. That is why we must proceed without populism, without delusion, without separation of the Greeks. I would remind you that following the catastrophic experiments in July 2015, when banks closed down and cleared supermarkets, the then SYRIZA - ANEL government committed the country to very high primary surpluses: 3.5% of GDP by 2022 and then 2% by 2060. The strategy announced by Prime Minister Mitsotakis for managing the very high surpluses, presupposes that the country's credibility be restored, that the reform process and the liberalisation of production forces be kept stable in the digital era. The policy pursued since July is aimed at attracting investment, implementing a number of measures relating to the reduction of taxation, removing obstacles to entrepreneurship, increasing public investment in infrastructure improvement, liberalising banks from red loans, restoring the functioning of the institutions. However, it does not overlook the need to spread a 'net' of protection for the weakest, most needy. In this context, I would ask the Minister responsible for the early safeguarding of medicines to our vulnerable citizens. On specific budgetary issues, I note that: Firstly, the government must step up its efforts to return public-private pensions. Secondly, as has been said in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs in Parliament, the expenditure on asylum seekers and refugees must be recorded. The previous government did not do it for its own reasons. It is indicative that, for about half the country's hospitals, the relevant costs were zero, so that we cannot even claim these funds from the European Union. Thirdly, the Ministry of Infrastructure's Public Investment Programme is planned for 2020 to EUR 1,46 billion, increased by approximately 150 million compared to 2019. The projects abandoned by SYRIZA, that is to say the completion and extension of motorways, must be a priority for the Ministry. I am referring to the E65, north, on the Ionian road, part Ioannina - Hellenic-Albanian border, and on the Olympia road, on the Patras-Pyrgos section. Also, the Ministry must immediately initiate the process of applying an electronic toll system that works in favour of highway users, just as we anticipated in 2013, after the huge failure of the model that SYRIZA tried to impose and which was supposed to be operational in 2018. Fourthly, in the context of sustainability, and as we all agree that climate change is already happening and affects us, it is important, Mr Ministers, to present in the state budget a qualitative assessment of the impact of the climate budget measures, as is applied pilotally in France. I close by saying that this budget is, in fact, different. This budget confirms the hope of the Greeks, raises a new era for the country. Plan and hard work will come the best. I am voting in favour of the budget and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u213	It is called in Step by Mera25, MP Maria Apatzidis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak about the health sector and the adverse effects that the budget will have on it, with the result that it will be privatised as quickly as possible. The general point that one can make is that expenditure intended for the most social sectors of state funding, namely health, education, culture, support for the weaker, social welfare, whether it is stagnated or significantly cut. In particular, for the Ministry of Health the expenditure ceilings are EUR 3,859 million, which is reduced by EUR 182 million compared to 2019. Let's look at some more detailed elements. The funding of public hospitals and primary health care is reduced. This is followed by the trumped-up of policies chosen in all the Memorandum years. The 2020 budget of the Ministry of Finance further reduces the financing of hospitals by 37 million compared to 2019, a year in which this funding was reduced by 65 million compared to 2018. For primary health care, the reduction is 4 to 4.5 million, while funding to the National Health Services Agency, EEAS, remains stable compared to 2019. The surplus will, however, be financed with an additional EUR 80-85 million in 2020, resulting from the increased insurance contributions charged by the citizens. As far as the drug sector is concerned, for the first time in years, following the continuous reductions and the freezing of EUR 1,945 billion, the state budget provides for more money for citizens' pharmaceutical coverage. However, this increase is insufficient on the basis of the overrun that has occurred in recent years in public pharmaceutical expenditure and is translated into huge amounts of refunds and discounts, clawback and rebate, which in 2019 will reach EUR 1.8 billion in total for the extra-nurse and hospital market. In particular, the 2020 State Budget provides for an adjustment to the limits of the pharmacy expenditure of the EEAS, based on projected GDP change. Thus, the pharmaceutical cost is EUR 2.058 billion, increased by about 100 million. In hospital medicine, the budget remains at EUR 559 million, although in 2019 the budget exceeds EUR 700 million. The EUR 100 million increase is to be allocated to high-cost medicines and other Community medicines, with the 'plateboard' being in favour of the former. According to information, close to EUR 57 million is expected to be absorbed by high-cost medicines and around EUR 43 million from other drugs. However, this difference in amounts is taken as a favor to the Government of New Democracy for multinational pharmaceutical companies, although domestic production is the one that creates added value in the country. By increasing the state budget to be considered a marginal, crucial issue, it is now the Ministry of Labour's finding funds to cover uninsured citizens, as well as European funds for refugee - immigration. The vice president of the EEAS himself stated that moves are being made in this direction in the clawback and pharmaceutical expenditure conference. This was also confirmed at the first meeting of the working party on the clawback of doctors and diagnostic centers. The same if not more critical for the drug industry is the exclusion of vaccines from pharmaceutical expenditure. The sector expects to resolve this issue in the direction of uninsured, i.e. through social welfare or the prevention and public health accounts. This issue was discussed in detail, in the presence of the Minister of Health Vassilis Kikilis, at the clawback and pharmaceutical expenditure on Thursday 14-11-2019. The institutional representatives of the pharmaceutical industry have insisted on all tones that the time has come to meet the constant request to exclude vaccines, as is the case in most European countries. So, according to what I have just said, we are also seeing a deterioration in health provision, and here too are austerity policies, in the model of memorandum policies depriving our fellow citizens of a fundamental and humanitarian right, that of access to health. What the government is trying to do with the budget under discussion in all areas of human life, like that of health, is an absolute absurdity, yet another dimension of the country's desertification, which we will not tolerate. The vision of Mera25 for health is fully matched by the majority of citizens: public, universal, anthropocentric and free, with the strengthening of primary and secondary health care. As is apparent from the planned cuts in expenditure in the 2020 budget and the Ministry of Health, this vision is made by the Government, in all cases, fraudulent and utopian. Merra25 can never consent to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis is called to Stepma by SYRIZA and then Mr. Amanatidis will speak by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vesiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think this year's budget is also the reciprocity of the election promises made by the New Democracy to take the elections. Why do I call him "rekviem"? The New Democracy promised growth of 4%, reduction of primary surpluses, good and new jobs, healing of wounds especially in the middle class. Instead, according to our budget and estimates, income inequalities are strengthened, the benefits of exiting from the crisis are not fairly distributed. The resentment of words and works is obvious. I refer to the report and to what the General Confederation of Professionals and Crafts of Greece has submitted, even for the tax reform you have. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give my position two points. For the rest, there's more to it anyway. One is for education as a teacher and the second is for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the field that concerns me. In terms of education, words are good, saying that education is a lever for growth, where we need to invest if we want to have a future, etc. Anaemic growth of 2.36% is seen in education. With less economic conditions we had increases from 4% to 6.17% in 2019. In the 2020 budget, there is ambiguity and there is no provision in relation to recruitment for general education posts, around the five thousand two hundred and fifty which we had planned. And here, of course, I would also like to address the Minister of Education for the injustice that has been done with regard to the appointment of specialist education staff in connection with the failure to complete the procedure with regard to the tri-euro so that they can join the recruitment process. Education from what seems to be the poor relative, despite all the proclamations. The second point, which concerns many thousands of pensioners, is the thirteenth pension. The government must be made clear. I heard Mr Metarakis' statements. You all know, despite your rhetoric, that by the law that passed in April, we have legislated a third pension whole for those who receive a main pension of up to EUR 500 and step-by-step. The budget does not exist. If the government comes out and says: will it abolish it? Because there's no money. Otherwise, using the method of pulling this issue out until 'the problem comes before you, it's like mocking retired people. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think there is a financial gap in relation to the reduction of some 20 million in operating expenses, and even at a time when the integration and transfer of expertise from other ministries is in existence. Generally, the budget you submit does not respond and does not address the new realities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and weakens the proper functioning and efficiency of the services of both the central agency and our diplomatic representations abroad. And to imagine that we are at a time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is called upon to take action and make an active policy. I see two moves on which the government is late. She hasn't seen them, it's ineffective and she's not at all in her sights. It is development in two areas of politics, cultural and religious diplomacy. In cultural diplomacy - apart from what the Minister said, because I have seen that he has mentioned about an international conference in UNESCO - the protection of cultural monuments in relation to climate change and the political crisis, he will also have to see the cooperation of ancient cultures, two conferences which have been held by a group of states which have operated to promote culture and how it can bring peoples together. The second is the Athens International Conference, which we had established here. There have been two conferences on religious and cultural pluralism and peaceful coexistence in the Middle East, policies which have been mildly diplomatic, which promotes close and stable links between peoples, regardless of what governments are. Finally, there are the conferences between states and countries in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East, where we have raised a positive agenda. Because it's not just about showing or fighting differences. Many times the development of a positive agenda in policies and states brings you closer and you can better make your policy to highlight your own positions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament has passed the law on the vote of Greek residents abroad. The government must not rest on what it had to do - and it confessed itself - was in agreement, because I believe that if the legislator did not have the 100 votes as a prerequisite, it would be very difficult for New Democracy to find a consensus on this matter. Besides, the position of Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, but also of the executives, was in this direction, despite the rhetoric that there was a need for unity in this article. The law, therefore, which has passed for the vote of the revenues, also requires funding for a new one. It is not only in this area that the government can stay. As the budget, as you know, is also a vote of confidence in the government, it is a repetition of the vote of confidence in the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should sit together with the Ministry of the Interior and see the law on the Council of Deputies Hellenism again. We've left plans to the government. Also, the Dispersion Museum. And, of course, care must be taken for young people who have been so written about the generation that has left abroad. And we all have kids abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, young people want dignity. In the five months that it governs, the government has shown that it is dominated by anxieties and has given the signal that anyone who has a best friend and acquaintance can take positions from ministries to the lower position of an organization. The circumvention and dismantling of the Staff Register - where young people could make their applications so that they then spread to the various administrative - and not - positions of the state apparatus - I think it gave the final blow. What our young people are asking for is not the money or the communication show of five hundred places, when you're kicking out by thousands. It is worthy and institutions that will make them come. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to Mr Dendia's statements, I think he was telling us that he himself or some part of his party, because our support for a national patriotic attitude with creative criticism is a given one, and the President has told us that we are not going to make a fool of foreign policy. Seriousness, reliability and effectiveness I think they should be the main features. The budget is neither developmental nor social, and we will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the first budget that, after many years, marks a fundamental policy change, a policy change that is also a time change for the country itself. The economic policy implemented since 7 July 2019 confirms that there is another way beyond and beyond the overtaxation that dissolves any development perspective. It is the way of reducing taxes and major reforms, leading to attracting investment and foreign capital and strengthening economic activity. The most important thing, however, is that, with this change in policy, not only the much-conscious upsurge of the national economy but also budgetary objectives are achieved at the same time. One of the myths cultivated in the previous period is thus destroyed. The policy of overtaxation adopted by the previous government did not only affect the citizens. He was undermining every development effort. Exceeding far beyond the objectives of achieving primary surpluses, in fact, kept every development effort on hold. I would remind you that in 2017 the primary surplus was 1.75% and the SYRIZA government created a surplus of 4.14%. The year 2018 was 3.5%, and we had again exceeded the target of 4.3%. In this way, 11.4 billion euros have been deducted from the economy, while overtaxation has also led to an increase in taxpayers' dues by 18.1 billion euros. At the same time, overcoming the limits of primary surpluses significantly slowed the growth rate. And I'm speaking documentarily. I would remind you that in the 2017 budget, the SYRIZA government predicted 2.7% growth and instead we had only 1.5% growth. In the 2018 budget, 2.5% was predicted and there was only 1.9% growth. We have chosen to follow another tactic on the issue of primary surpluses. We choose not to go far beyond the limits, depriving them of valuable resources from the economy. In our 2020 government budget, it is predicted that the primary surplus for 2019 will be formed at 3.7% and for 2020 at 3.6%. Already ELSTAT's figures show that growth will be over 2% in 2019. They are therefore all aware that the target set by the 2020 budget for growth of 2.8% is perfectly feasible. It is also possible to provide for private consumption in the budget. In the budget in particular, the rate of increase in private consumption is estimated at 1.8%. It is projected to increase compared to 2019. This forecast is based on the continuous improvement of the economic climate index in our country, moving upwards. The confirmation comes from how international markets face the Greek economy. Let me mention that Greece has been loaned for the third time at a negative interest rate. The interest rate in the quarterly interest rate was set at 0.02%. But let us see the comparative figures for the issue of the ten-year bond. The 10-year bond issued by the previous government in March 2019 was closed at 3.9% rate. On the other hand, the issue of the 10-year bond in October on our own government was closed at a historically low rate of 1.5%. It therefore proves beyond any doubt that there is a very positive climate in the international markets, which is a strengthening factor for our economy. As I have been given many times to say, tax policy can and must have a developmental character and dimension. That is why we are making substantial reductions in taxes. At the same time, through the increase in tax compliance indicators and the reduction of tax evasion, we are successful in ensuring an additional financial space to be used in the next two years in the direction of further tax reductions. This is reflected in the 2020 State Budget. This provides for tax relief measures totalling EUR 1.2 billion, including firstly a reduction in the tax rate for legal persons from 28% to 24%, at a fiscal cost of EUR 566 million; secondly, a reduction in the tax rate for natural persons and for incomes of up to EUR 10 000; and from 22% to the tax rate for each child. There is, indeed, a progressive reduction in one percentage point of the remaining tax rates for the higher tax revenues. The financial costs of this measure are EUR 281 million. All of them, of course, remember that the Qualified Opposition had discounted by destroying that the New Democracy Government would reduce dutyfree. Ultimately, this was not the case, but duty free was even more strengthened by the EUR 1,000 increase for each child and regardless of the number of children each family has. Thirdly, we have a reduction in the tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5% at a budgetary cost of EUR 75 million, fourthly, a 5% reduction in the tax advance paid to legal persons this year. In fact, we have completed the clearance procedures so that the 5% deduction of the tax advance would appear in the last instalment of the income tax paid at the end of December. The financial cost is estimated at EUR 138 million. Fifthly, there is a suspension of VAT on the building for a three-year period with a budget cost of EUR 26 million, sixthly, a suspension of the value tax for a three-year period on the sale of fixed assets at zero budgetary cost, seventhly, a 40% reduction in the income tax on services relating to energy, operational and aesthetic upgrading of buildings, with a total cost of EUR 16 000, equal to that of four years. Eighth, provision is made for the introduction of an allowance of EUR 2,000 for each child born after 1 January 2020, with income criteria covering 90% of families. The budgetary cost of this measure is EUR 123 million and is the first essential measure to address the demographic problem. Ninth, transfer to the low VAT rate of 13% for infants and children's seats, as well as for the safety helmets of motorcycles and cyclists, at a budgetary cost of EUR 12 million. Tenthly, a reduction in the insurance contributions per unit at a budgetary cost of EUR 123 million. In addition, there are other measures with social aiming and sensitivity, such as the payment of the heating allowance, which for the first time will be granted until 31 December 2019 and not after a holiday, as has taken place in recent years. In addition, the available budget for the heating allowance has been greatly increased, while the criteria have been widened to receive the allowance for more beneficiaries. In the revenue sector, there are also substantial actions aimed at increasing tax revenue and including an increase in revenue from the extension of electronic transactions by EUR 557 million, which comes from the fight against tax evasion and not from any burden on taxpayers, as some are unfounded. Raising the objective values on the basis of social justice criteria on the basis of real commercial values and the integration of regions into the system of determining objective values, which are now left out, and which is manifestly inequality. Revenue will be EUR 142 million. Increase the revenues from the online bet calculated at EUR 73 million. Revenue of EUR 300 million from the regulation of 20 instalments, to which a large number of citizens have responded and maintained. Increase the revenue by EUR 60 million from the intensification of controls on short-term rental platforms, such as airbnb. In addition, the budget includes measures to assist workers, as well as measures to strengthen corporate social responsibility, such as granting an over-exhaust to the company for the costs of purchasing unrestricted public transport passes, which will also not be counted as income for the worker. These are measures that have recently been passed in the tax bill and are now a law of the state, a law with a clear development dimension and with arrangements aimed at attracting investment and capital to the country. In the same direction, the provisions on simplifying the legislation relating to tax residences and the new method of taxation of foreign income by paying an annual flat-rate tax annually in the case of investments of more than EUR 500,000 are being initiated. In the Ministry of Finance, we have a comprehensive plan to simplify the procedures for civil trade with the tax administration. The aim is to best serve citizens and businesses as well as to reduce administrative costs. In this context, we will go ahead with the introduction of electronic books and electronic invoicing, which will not only reduce tax evasion, but will also lead to a direct refund of tax on consistent businesses and professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is turning its programme commitments to reduce taxes into a policy applied. It implements a project with a clear reform mark. The vast majority of Greek citizens have appreciated the work of the government positively. This positive assessment is reflected in a positive climate in the economy. The 2020 budget aims to support and further strengthen this positive climate. I urge you to vote in favour of the first budget with developmental and pluralist features tabled by the New Democracy Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u219	The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Theophilos Letonaridis, is called in Stepma for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget sends both internally and externally a strong message of budgetary stability and a development priority and forms a targeted and realistic part of the overall reform plan of the new governance. It provides for an increase in GDP of 2.8%, a further reduction in unemployment and a significant increase in private consumption that reflects the increase in the available incomes of all citizens by reducing tax rates, for example, income tax, property taxes, special tax incentives, and the reinvigoration of economic activity. The strategic choice is the overall shift in economic policy towards directions that stimulate domestic demand, in particular investment, and serve a high growth rate in a sustainable way. The project strengthens the Public Investment Programme, but in particular seeks to maximise its influence on cofinancing projects with the European Union. The mitigation of tax burdens together with a more stable development perspective and the rationalisation of general government revenue and expenditure are the main pillars of the budget. The direct government priorities voted on in the tax bill and in force in 2020 include: Firstly, the reduction of the tax burden on employees, pensioners, free traders and farmers. Secondly, the reduction in the tax rate from 28% to 24% in enterprises and further reduction in 2020. Thirdly, the suspension of VAT on building activities for three years. Fourthly, the suspension of taxation on real estate sales for three years. Fifthly, the tax deduction equal to 40% of expenditure on energy functional or aesthetic upgrading of buildings. Sixth, the reduction in the tax rate of dividends from 10% to 5%. Furthermore, it is firstly planned to further reduce HPAI, secondly, gradually abolish the trade fee and, thirdly, reduce VAT rates over time. The significant increase in the economic climate index is a pretext for speeding up investment, which in the light of taxation, reducing bureaucracy, speeding up and simplifying the licensing process of new businesses, which has already been adopted, lay the foundations for sustainable and stable growth. Moreover, the investment climate is improved through the marked decrease in the yields of ten-year government bonds, as their returns mirror the health of an economy and thus the confidence of domestic and international investors towards it. The removal of capital controls also marks a new era in which banks are gradually and in parallel with the reduction of non-performing loans will be able to make increased credit with a reduction in the cost of lending to households and businesses. The instruments, of course, of course, are, firstly, the activation of a development bank, secondly, the speeding up of the implementation of business programmes, thirdly, the creation of an incentive framework for start-ups. The draft budget has a positive social dimension, as it implements consistent and appropriately structured measures to strengthen the financially vulnerable social groups that have raised the burden of budgetary adjustment for a decade. The aim is: firstly, to address demographic and family support. The first step is the allowance of 2,000 euros for the birth of each child. Secondly, the reduction in insurance contributions. Thirdly, incentives for companies offering more benefits to their employees. Fourthly, the increase in private sector wages. Fifthly, strengthening the minimum guaranteed income institution. Sixthly, the establishment of a national action plan to support disabled people. Seventh, a viable pension insurance system. In the health sector, the strengthening of hospitals with medical and nursing staff, a programme of free preventive examinations, upgrading and digitisation of the health system, human and decent care conditions for all. In the field of education, after the abolition of asylum, we seek to redesign access to higher education for an upgraded public university, while setting the foundations for substantial vocational guidance by high school, for the establishment of standards of vocational schools, for the enhancement of experimental schools and special education. But in order to make progress towards development and progress, there is a need to strengthen security in the country, in the city, in the neighbourhood, in the home, with zero tolerance for crime and infractionality. The Ministry of Civil Protection has the will to tackle - and it does so - the internal security of its citizens effectively with methodicality, programming, organisation and reinforcement of its logistics infrastructure. I shall end with the development of the countryside, of the agricultural and livestock sectors. The direct government priorities are: firstly, to secure stable resources from the new CAP. Secondly, the introduction of a new law on cooperatives. Thirdly, the reduction of taxation to 10% for all producer groups and cooperative schemes. Fourthly, dealing with illegal Greekizations in agricultural products. But what we have repeatedly said and to which we must pay particular attention is to reduce production costs. Precious oil, expensive electricity and supplies affect the income of producers. At the same time, a change must be made to the outdated ELGA regulation, which, as a result of climate change, requires the reform of the compensation system and the speed of their repayment. However, we also need the inclusion of irrigation and enhancement projects in the new ESDP. In the Serres Prefecture, the projects that have stopped and need to be relaunched are of dual importance, because, on the one hand, we need to strengthen production with modern irrigation works fuelled by the Strymon River, on the other hand, we need to shield the harmless flow of the river with flood protection, taking into account the enormous damage from the floods five years ago. In the importance of infrastructure projects, I rank and improve roads such as New Petritsi - Kilkis, which is the alternative road to Promahona, the Nigrita - Egnatia road connection, the section of Lefkotheas - Alistratis and Dramas - Amphipolis - Egnatias, which is in the Ministry's plans and will serve, among other things, the monument of Kastas hill that lately, after four years of inertia, with the unscrupulous efforts of the Ministry of Culture and the region, continue its work to demonstrate. Ladies and gentlemen, the government believes in its election commitments, unfolds its development plan, puts the economy on a stable track, and the results of the reform effort will be visible in the next period when further strengthening budgetary credibility is to take place. The success of the objectives in all areas is up to us. The people's confidence is accompanying us. It's a chance to justify them. There is a need for conscientiousness and social cohesion, at a time when national risks and our homeland want us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and five teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Drama. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to adopt a budget which could also be of SYRIZA, because the first priority is to get the figures out. That's a logic of the time of the memoranda, it's a management logic. It is the budget that obeys it. It is respected, but the country, of course, is now in another 'constellation'. We have a budget that maintains atrocious surpluses at the expense of development. I would remind you that, just a year ago, in this Chamber in the respective debate, Mr Mitsotakis had criticised the government for the surpluses and had spoken about returning to reasonable annual surpluses. The primary surplus this year is for seven billion, a huge sum, which we are pulling from the market, and we often develop it in a customer perception of measures, and should return there with multiple social and economic indicators of performance. The budget follows a model of development, which has been tested in the past, with tragic results, creating, among other things, the property bubble. Apart from anti-developmental, however, it is also an unfair budget. It affects the middle-class and favours incomes, without any guarantee that the latter will productively invest their profits from tax relief. The most unfair thing is that there is a lack of care for private workers. No relief to them at all. Tax reductions in the revenues of the middle class that paid the crisis are in the order of EUR 30 and forty per year, when dividend reductions reach 50%. Overall, it has more taxes, since it provides for 773 million more taxes for 2020 than estimates for 2019. To produce this tax result, small and medium-sized and low incomes will pay an extra 323 million income tax, 84 million real estate tax and also increase indirect taxes. Greek consumers will be charged with an additional VAT of 638 million and 88 million of a excise duty. The direct-indirect tax relationship reaches 1.5 out of 1.15 in 2014. We are, of course, feeding the vicious circle here. Unreasonable high income taxes, inability to create effective input mechanisms, transfer of taxes to production, and so we find that we will have a problem of production and, of course, a problem of public revenue, as anyone who can, resorts to the 'black' economy, but this affects most of all the weak, the one who does not have backs in the state mechanism and discourages any serious investor. There is a reduction in the tax rate on the profits of legal persons, particularly companies, from 28% to 24% and a reduction in dividends to 5% from 10% which was currently, i.e. 50%, after the reduction made by SYRIZA. I would remind you that the reduction in dividend tax has also been tested in the Karamanlis government and has led to a huge failure. All these reductions cost 541 million and 75 respectively, according to the General Accounting Office of the State. These are tax reliefs, which have no match, no connection to investment and employment. The loss of budget revenue by EUR 446 million will mainly lead to shareholders' pockets. We see nothing about the collection, control mechanisms, the broadening of the tax base. We see nothing about research, innovation, the improvement of education and health. I give you a small example only. At the Ministry of Education, the Independent Quality Assurance Authority in primary and secondary education was set up and the Government today chooses to "build" this principle with the astronomical sum of EUR 75,000 per annum. The body, which deals with research, development and quality assurance in our educational system, the most valuable good of our social development and individual, social and class mobility, will receive EUR 75 000 per year, while the state is subsidising the Church with EUR 200 million. To sum up, the budget does not support small and medium-sized and low incomes, it does not promote public investment, it does not aim at a documented, realistic expenditure retention, it does not support vulnerable social groups, it does not bring substantial tax relief, it is not based on an integrated strategy and operational preparedness plan. As far as the Ministry of Civil Protection is concerned, I would first of all like to express my concern about the adequacy of the appropriations for a Ministry, which in addition takes on its back an important part of the Ministry of Justice - particularly in prisons - and the entire Ministry of Migration Policy. The increase in the budget is just over 10%. I consider it important that the Ministry is making an effort to set operational targets and plans at a pilot level. However, I cannot comment on the fact that the objectives set, especially in this particular case, need to be considered. For example, in the rapporteur's report it says that the objective is, the price for the success factor in the refugee to go from 0.7 to 1. If, for example, a request for asylum is tabled and today we are responding to a period of 0.7 with an excellent record of 1, that means that we will never end the seventy thousand asylum applications pending at the moment. Of course, I would also like to dwell on the minimum rate that has been set for civil protection: EUR 3 million, when they know that climate change has caused huge damage in the country over recent years, and, of course, just how much is a billboard. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u223	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Economou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost ten years of austerity and fiscal adjustment programmes, statistics on the Greek economy cannot yet support the view that the country has entered a path of sustainable development. That is why it is crucial that we make a realistic design for the future, with economic rationale, but at the same time with a sense, not only of the needs but also of society's demands. It is crucial to vote and implement a budget, which will not be another attempt to manage a financial year, but will be part of a multiannual financial and development framework aimed at stabilising the basic sources of public revenue and, at the same time, strengthening the fundamental guides to economic development, a budget which will be a gradual and well-organised plan for overcoming the development crisis created by the memorandum period. That is exactly what we are seeking, by drawing up a draft budget that reflects, not just our election commitments, but our philosophy, I would also say the dictatorial breeze, the operative character of the New Democracy, a budget which will lead us to win the bet of the three 'A's growth, employment, and redistribution. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, development is not just the first objective, the first step. It is also the main prerequisite for achieving the other two. In order to achieve the growth, growth of the economy we are pursuing, we are already implementing, planning and implementing in the next few years a policy mix comprising incentives for psychology, fiscal measures and institutional interventions. On the subject of psychology, our Government has been able to gain, since the first day, the time needed to implement policies, which already achieve good medium-term results. But this success requires us even more, ladies and gentlemen, not to disappoint the citizens, not to blame the expectations, the expectation, the desires, the enthusiasm that we have created. In simple terms, it obliges us to have the corresponding follow-up. In taxation we have reduced ENPIA, business tax and natural persons, we have suspended VAT on immovable property, we have given tax incentives for indirect reinforcement of workers' incomes in enterprises. These are measures which, together with the settlement of dues through the one hundred and twenty-dollar program, as well as the 'IRAKLIS' project for red loans do a very important thing: they increase the income available and hence the purchasing power of households, thus strengthening private consumption that is a very critical size for economic growth if you consider that it is 70% of the GDP structure. But, ladies and gentlemen, the necessary prerequisite for this choice to be achieved, this new architecture of taxation, which is on the reverse of overtaxation, which we have known throughout the past period, is to broaden the tax base, through, in particular, the fight against tax evasion. However, apart from the part of taxation, apart from the part of psychology, private consumption aid, development of ladies and gentlemen is first and foremost linked to investment. To achieve this, of course, we must attract foreign funds. Obviously, we need foreign direct investment in Greek, Piraeus, the 5G nets and elsewhere. However, in no country in the developed world, in countries with a level of prosperity, social cohesion and social cohesion, like what we have in mind, growth did not come from the outside. Foreign investment followed - and of course multiplied - the benefits of domestic investment. That is why, in order to achieve the growth we want - not short-term growth - we need many, large, medium-sized and small local investments. We need to use the development factors that exist everywhere in the country that either substitute or shine on the grasses of bureaucracy and inertia. For example, in Fthiotida such investments are the Panhellenic Exhibition of Lamia, the thermal sources, the archaeological site of Thermopoils, the improvement works on the banks of Sperhios, the port of Stylopi. Even anyone who does not know exactly the sites and sites understands that I am talking about investments that will create many jobs, create new destinations, trigger new investments, jobs, shops, services, restaurants, hotels that will in turn bring new jobs, renew wealth, lead to fresh money entering the region. This is the development, ladies and gentlemen, which the country needs. I do not want to deal with why nothing has happened or there have been very few decades. What concerns me, what I care, is that I do not want to do the same, I do not want to waste time. I want us to do what we need to do to trigger growth and give solutions. Why, for example, ladies and gentlemen, cannot a paper on forest characterisation which is not given to the environment, a biological cleansing on the EOT's plot in Kamena Vourla that is not sufficient, urban violations on the river in Platistomo, a distorting institutional framework and the lack of an innovative plan for the exploitation of the Lamia Pan-Hellenic Exhibition, constitute an insuperable obstacle to the development potential that my place should have. Such problems - unfortunately - exist throughout Greece. What can the state do, what can the government do in this direction? Six things come very roughly to my mind. First and foremost, to draw up a regional development strategy immediately and, above all, to assume the ownership of the implementation of this strategy. Secondly, it should continue to provide tax incentives to local entrepreneurship. Thirdly, reduce non-wage labour costs. Fourthly, to create conditions of access to competitive with other countries bank lending for such companies. Fifthly, to be substantial - because the money is a little - very well thought out of public investment and to stop the Public Investment Programme acting as a string for the success of overcrowding and voting tactics. Sixth, to deal effectively with bureaucracy first of all with the state's digital transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget, without any doubt, goes in this direction, serves and supports the objectives I have described, and that is why with optimism, but also with confidence, I am voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u225	It's called in Stepma by SYRIZA, MP, Mr. Zabeck Hussein, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after four development budgets geared to the needs of many, the New Democracy Government returns with an anti-social and anti-development budget to dismantle all social welfare and prove that its declarations before the elections were carbon and not treasure. Starting with education, we see a small increase in the budget, but since the government has dismantled significant reforms of the SYRIZA Government, such as the abolition of free access departments, the abolition of university asylum, the suspension of the operation of thirty-seven new U.S. departments, while not completing the recruitment for special education. He froze the ten thousand five hundred recruits in general education. Following these initiatives to deregulation the educational system, the New Democracy budget does not reflect the Ministry of Education's plans for the future. It does not make use of the financial resources provided by the SYRIZA government. He is preparing the ground for the privatisation of the public education system. On the contrary, the government of SYRIZA, with much greater budgetary constraints and an educational system destroyed, managed to rectify the situation of education. He succeeded in having the books and teachers on time and after ten years of unselfishness, he ran the procedures for fifteen thousand recruitments in education. In the field of rural development, the greatest deviation from the announcements of the New Democracy before and after the elections is recorded. You have managed to create a chaos in the agricultural world and reactions, just a few months after your election, with your announcements to increase farmers' contributions and introduce special crop insurance instead of public ELGA. With your tax bill, farmers' tax reliefs were crumbs, and the discount on agricultural oil promised by the Prime Minister himself seems to have gone for a walk. For 2020, the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is reduced by EUR 50 million without any provision for a new de minimis. Another very important area in which you have brought up - down is the area of labour and, in general, the social state. Your first concern was to degrade the Labour Inspectorate to reduce controls, abolish the legitimate ground for dismissal that puts a barrier to arbitrary redundancies and dismantle the basic principles of reinstatement of collective bargaining, with exceptions to collective agreements and restrictions on referral to arbitration. After all, we see a negative eighteen-year-old record of the recruitment balance in October. There is no mention in your budget of the minimum wage increase. We don't see a ratio to growth. On the other hand, we are seeing a reduction in the Public Investment Programme to the OAED, that is, less programmes for the unemployed and a reduction in employers' spending, that is, less pensions. In social welfare your only intervention is the allowance of 2,000 euros to the new families for each child. On the other hand, however, there is a reduction in the pre-school allowances, for LEIs, for family allowances, for rent benefits, so that we do not forget the serious reductions in the social dividend. Just before I finish my speech, let me refer to the problems of my region, of Thrace and of my Prefecture, of Xanthi and how the situation is in my place with your Government. After the many transnational agreements of the SYRIZA government, Thrace had started to become a commercial hub and a real crossroads of two continents. Suddenly, with your arrival, he returned to the stagnation, accompanied by a pause of infrastructure projects in Xanthi, such as the construction of the road of Centauri, and the cessation of the support of the municipalities in the area after cutting off from "FILODIMO". ¶ Your government, which has invested in the reduction of Brain Drain, does not give a damn how it will bring back thousands of workers who are going to the shipyards and factories in Germany, Finland and the Netherlands, in order to work and, in essence, are the ones still holding the economy of Xanthi, while fighting tobacco farming, traditional cultivation, which is a trademark for my area. It does not motivate farmers to continue and does not even negotiate de minimis aid for the summer crop losses. One of the best qualities worldwide is at stake to end. As far as education is concerned, unfortunately, the current government does not show the same intention as ours. When I transferred the problems of minority education and the problem of housing for the minority high school, a very serious issue concerning the safety of pupils, the leadership of the Ministry of Education has dealt with us in a periphery and has shown no intention of finding a solution. At the moment, seven hundred students and students are housed in an inadequate building, without the necessary infrastructure, which operates on two shifts and without the political will for either temporary or permanent solution to the problem by building a new school. Neither on the regular issues of the minority for the call for elections to the Management Committees of Vakoufi, nor on the issue of the election of Mufti, are you taking any initiative, and we know very well that the SYRIZA Government had a plan to resolve these issues. In general you have no intention of opening up the dialogue with the minority. There is a lot of discussion about rights in conjunction with national issues. It seems that the minority often enters - densely - into the eye of the cyclone. I would like to say once again from the Step of the House that Thrace has been and will be an example of the coexistence of citizens, cultures and religions. The government must protect minority from explosions of intolerance and division and not encourage them by the bodies of its officials. He must condemn such practices and I do not remember hearing any fellow Members condemning them. Even colleagues from Thrace did not react. It has to protect the rights of the minority, as well as all the citizens affected in terms of darkness, so that we do not go back to black times that in nothing remind a social and democratic state, equal to equal opportunities for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u228	Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement has been asked for the floor for a minute. Why are you asking for the floor, Mr. Loverdos? You want time from your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u229	No, Mr. President. The Deputy Minister, Mr Koumoutsakos, has just made an unacceptable statement today concerning our resignation and I wanted to reply to him, as I have the right to do from Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u230	You will respond to the time given to you for your protology, dentology or even your tritology. Also, Mr. Kumoucascus isn't here. No time-limit for the intervention of the parliamentary representatives is laid down. I gave you the floor to explain why you want to speak. The Minister should at least be present here. You can't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u231	No, Mr. President. I have from Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure the possibility, after the speeches of the Ministers, of making an intervention. My speech will take place on Tuesday, as will my denology. I have no reason to wait until Tuesday. A number of objections, which are tabled in an unacceptable way, which are not personal but political, require the parliamentary representative to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u232	Let me explain, however, that the debate is specified and that it says in particular who is speaking, when and how. Nevertheless, I give you the floor for a minute, so that we do not engage in any further dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, I have the right to speak and you are not giving me the floor'nonetheless'. I do not want to concern you and the Chamber any more, because you were a Member of the House when all the parliamentary representatives reacted, not always, sometimes and without abused the power that the Bureau gives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, twenty years have passed since the European Union's decision at its highest level, the famous Helsinki decision. The paper "TAS" carried out a survey after these twenty years for that decision, in which the then Prime Minister Mr. Simitis and a series of major professors of international relations and international law responded. I am referring to Christos Rozakis, who has consulted the previous government, has been a State Secretary and in any case it is Mr Liagura who is a member of the National Foreign Policy Council, Mr Tsakonas, Mr Ioakeimides, Mr Stylianides, the former Commissioner on the part of the Republic of Cyprus, etc. The newspaper "TA NEWs" had a headline quite sharp. Mr Simitis made a statement that he had not given his own article in this way. Suddenly, Mr Koumoutsakos comes here speaking from this Step and as Deputy Minister of this Government, in circumstances where the country absolutely needs the unity of its political forces to testify to the objections that arrive and to the extent of the forms, because they were personal, he spoke of micropsy and anything. So I say to him - in the most polite way - I can say that someone must be very aware of what is said to take the floor as Minister and address what Mr Kumucasos has addressed. I would add that all those who have written and pointed out, Mr President, are making a mention that the Helsinki decision said that the start of Turkey's accession negotiations must have solved the issues that have to do with Greece. The reproach is empty, because the observation is that the then Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, accepted that the accession negotiations should begin without this condition being met in Helsinki. These are discussed at a political level, at a scientific level, but at a political level. This step is another reason in these circumstances, Mr President, and I would like to ask the Deputy Minister to elegate his words if he does not want to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u236	I think you, too, understood that the Minister responsible should be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u237	Why are we being present when Mr Kumucascus spoke?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u238	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has been speaking for a minute. But let's not open the conversation. The answer must be given by the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u239	That's obvious. I think Mr. Loverdos has come to place himself. The title of the article which has been entered in the paper does not reflect the contents of the article. I think we all understand that. You were not here this morning where the Foreign Minister, Mr Denkias, spoke and was placed on behalf of the Government. Mr Kumoutsakos, what he said - and he also expresses our support - is that at the moment it is not the time, the time to open an issue which was recorded in the newspaper and to some extent we have all experienced it. That time she brought her positives. We all know the course of this story. I think that at a difficult time in which we are going to have to bring down tons, have a sense of the need for national unity and unity, and in this context was integrated, and Mr Kumucaku's overall position as well as, above all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs this morning. I think that our position also covers what you said, Mr Loverdos, and I do not think we need, as the President said, to extend the dialogue on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr Levane. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head. Here, Mrs. Head, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the state budget for 2020 is the footprint of Greece's return to the future and it is coming to incorporate all legislative reforms of the government. It is the first budget of the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, which not only imposes additional restrictive measures, but reduces burdens on households and businesses, a realistic budget of optimism and inextricably integrated with our policy for more investment and less taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is entering a new era and the economy too. The overrun of the four-year SYRIZA reached 11.4 billion. Congratulations! But where did the 11.4 billion? Is it a product of the investments made? Is it a product of influx of funds abroad? No, obviously not. The product of the bleeding of the Greek household and the Greek society is. What investment policy have you implemented, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Twenty-nine new taxes were imposed by the previous government. Seventeen times cut pensions. He brought the capital control. Reduce duty and much more. We have seen in this four-year period the middle-income shrinking dramatically. We want to strengthen them, the middle class we want to strengthen, the backbone of the Greek economy. We say that there is another way of reducing taxes, attracting investments, but above all with proper financial management. Our six-month economic policy, although still in an infant's state, makes its results felt. It finally stops the vicious cycle of overtaxation by breathing measures, with permanent and important tax reliefs. It liberates the economy from taxation, gives development incentives to businesses and freelance professionals and strengthens the income available. We have covered 396 million euros, left to us by the previous government for the major budgetary gap in 2019. We've reduced HISBIA. We increased the heating allowance to 68 million and much more. And all this in about sixty days. The state budget for 2020 reflects an economic policy based entirely on philosophy different from the one prevailing in the previous four years. We are putting an end to the policy of overcrowding. We are putting the foundations to address the development and investment problem of the Greek economy in recent years, as well as the problem of unemployment. We support the citizens' available income, we strengthen entrepreneurship and investment. Ladies and gentlemen, by drawing up the State Budget for 2020, we are doing our programming and election commitments. We have EUR 1.2 billion from the state budget to go to development and social intervention. We grant an allowance of EUR 2,000 for every child born as of 1 January 2020. We're reducing the income tax rate to 9%. We increase the tax-free limit for every child. We reduce to the low VAT rate 13% for infantry species. We therefore support the Greek household, the lower and medium-income groups that form the core of the Greek society, in order to directly relieve all citizens of unfavourable tax obligations, to strengthen private consumption, saving and employment, and to create a framework in the medium term that favours the fight against subnatality, which is plagued by our country. The budget objective is as we have all seen in the recent adopted tax bill and tax relief in the business and corporate sectors with a reduction in income tax from 28% to 24%, an advance payment of 5% income tax and a dividend tax of 10% to 5%. We therefore call on the foundations to become a point of attraction for new investments in order to move the Greek economy to higher production capacities, to directly improve the business climate on all the key criteria of international competitiveness indicators, creating in short time wealth and new jobs, to start rolling money and get the market forward to say it simply. Ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor, I cannot fail to mention the recent real costs incurred in the critical and sensitive health sector in relation to the 2019 budget. The 2020 budget is set at EUR 3,800,000, but the real costs of the Ministry of Health will be higher. We therefore have additional amounts from the new special reserve, a total of EUR 300 million and an additional amount of money from the calculation of the costs for refugees and asylum seekers in the health sector, about 25 to 30 million, which the previous government did not record and which do not bear the financial result in its programme. At the same time, the EEAS budget provides for increased costs of EUR 108 million in relation to estimated payments in 2019. On the other hand, we are increasing public revenue by means of drastic interventions. We are adapting objective values on the basis of real values. This will help increase the collection of property in specific areas of the country, which is now the level of objective values well below the commercial value, as well as in areas of very high property value, such as luxurious holiday areas, which have so far not been taken into account. Our aim is, through these changes, to make taxation on immovable property more effective and socially fair. We are fighting tax evasion on its roots and extending the tax base by means of measures to promote e-commerce. Combating tax evasion, reducing the parafiscal economy and extending the tax base are prerequisites to further reduce the tax burden on citizens consistent with their obligations. Strengthening e-commerce, with the institutionalised increased rate, is proving the most effective measure in this direction. The attempt to deal with tax evasion is not, moreover, a case solely of the state. It concerns society as a whole and, in particular, taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are presenting a budget which we all have to vote for. We are covering the budgetary gap that the new government has inherited for the current and the following year. We are creating a financial area for the significant reduction in tax rates, the increase in public investment and the triggering of a virtuous cycle of economic progress over the next few years to achieve an economic growth rate of 2% for 2019 and 2.8% for 2020 to increase GDP from 11.6% for the first half of the first half to 12.3%. Rise expected to reach 13.1% in 2020 and gradually gradually approaching the levels of the pre-crisis period. We must finally limit the production gap. With the State Budget for the 2020 financial year, we are illustrating the implementation of the government's budget commitments under budgetary discipline. It is a budget geared to assisting the development process through investment aid. We are setting the foundations to address the great problem of the Greek economy in recent years, the investment public. No money will be distributed, nor will they announce that we will be sharing. Step by step we help the middle class. Step by step - we are strengthening social justice. Step by step we return to normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u242	The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is evident from the debate so far from the positions of all the parties, other than the Communist Party, one thing is the aim of all of you on the basis of the approach to the content of the annual state budget. The public, therefore, in your approach to all of you, is that it aims to give our people an image of the management of sums of economic sizes in a way that alters the main, that is, where these amounts come from. You are all trying to form a picture that the state, the government concerned, has to manage economic sizes which are the result of various successes of wealth production, investment, competition and so on, and indeed, it seems that it makes and makes an effort to deal with it in a fair manner that pleases everyone, but also based on their contribution to the entire socially produced wealth. You hide, in any way, that there is not a single euro, not derived from the real value of the labour force alone, which is a sum of the nominal wage, minimum or average, the portion of taxes and withholdings to meet the needs of the employees, health, education, insurance, and the rest that you do not pay and shape the employer's profit. Each of the first two pieces of capital and business groups want to put it in the hands of better, even deeper, and to raise the third piece, i.e. their profits and the state budget is the appropriate tool to legitimise the transfer of more and more of these first two synthetic elements of the real value of the labour force in the pockets of a handful of business groups. But let us see how the attack is carried out on each of these first two pieces. In the case of the nominal salary, you've all pissed him off. The SYRIZA Government has legislated and maintained the New Democracy's wage policy to be determined by competitiveness by abolishing collective bargaining. And on the basis of the poor forecasts for the recovery of the international economy and extraterritorialism to a large extent, the Greek economy will probably lead to a reduction in the minimum wage in the next period rather than an increase. The new Republic, with its development policy, effectively abolishes collective agreements, opening the way to the collapse of the average wage, which will lead to another very large part of the working class being unable to cope with even the reproduction of the labour force itself alongside the nightmare of the already existing ones. Of course, you must not pass unnoticed the fact that you have taken, SYRIZA and New Democracy, measures against class claiming struggles with strikers' laws, the mob with electronic registries, the legalisation of fraud by electronic vote. Great are also the hits, which will accept this nominal income of workers from the fact that this year's budget also provides for more taxes that are increased by EUR 750 million, or the indirect 650 million euros, or those on real estate, without, of course, including increased charges through local administration, an increase in electricity prices, etc. I now come to the second part of the total value of the labour force which forms revenue from general taxation and pension, health, education, social policy, that is to say, the needs of the workers. And in this part the state budget takes some of the accumulated wealth and opens the ground for further profitability of business groups, reduces health expenditure of 182 million euros, speeding up the understate system with individuals rub their hands with the "basic" you offer them. We have a reduction in pension expenditure of EUR 192 million to main and ancillary costs to facilitate the implementation of the Katrugalo Law and the passage of insurance with the forthcoming insurance bill as a whole in the hands of business groups and the definitive dissolution of social security. Finally, what is the New Democracy budget doing with the huge revenue that it has received from workers, from wild taxation, from the withdrawal of funding to insurance funds, social policy and health? Without possibility of any overlapping, it gives direct to the large capital 1.2 billion budgetary space, with a 615 million reduction in taxation and 123 million reduction in their insurance contributions. Any small reduction is the majority of the workers and the self-employed, and the budget has been set back as has the budgets of the previous years. In the same line as all governments, of course, with different efficiency on each other, you are serving this common duty. All your controversy is about which business group you will put in a better position of getting a larger share of each part of the total value of the labour force is a misunderstanding to alleviate some popular strata that is your privileged audience. We call on the workers to see clearly that the only source of wealth is themselves. There is not a single euro in the size of the budget that is not part of their wages, their income. These can be enough to meet all their modern needs. We invite them to claim all that belongs only to them. In this struggle, the Communist Party of Greece will always be in front and with all powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, too. Mr Charalambos Papademitriou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote for the proposed budget and then explain just a few of the reasons. The State's budget for the financial year 2020 is the first of the new government, but it remains transitional for six plus one reason. First, it maintains the binding framework of the major memorandum obligations and objectives agreed by the SYRIZA Government and registered at the Eurogroup in June 2018. Secondly, it is transitional because we still have the commitment to a primary surplus of 3.5% on the basis of the incomplete agreement made by the previous government to restructure public debt. It was right, in my opinion, that Mr. Tsipras was raped to take off the tie that Kammenos's partner gave him after the established celebration in Zappeion on July 22, 2018. Fortunately, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have already said, in the first half of 2020, the question of debt reorganisation will be raised in order to move forward. One observation: Interest paid between 2010 and 2014 - five years - was 54 billion. They identify the primary surplus. Interest paid in the next period 2015-2019 was 29.5%. Such a gift was received in 2014, ladies and gentlemen. Thirdly, the tax relief for households, the reduction of pension reservations for professionals, the reduction of four units plus one in profit tax voted by the New Democracy colleagues together with the then government just before the elections, and the half-court tax reduction, i.e. the remuneration of entrepreneurship, as well as a number of other arrangements, which resolve complications and remove obstacles to productive processes, such as the abolition of VAT on construction, will give effect in the coming year. Fourthly, we expect the reorganisation of pensions in 2020, which has a development dimension, to facilitate labour market mobility, to increase employees' available income and to reduce labour costs. Fifthly, there will be considerable investment which will give the tone to speed up economic activity. Sixth, 2020 will be the year of coercion of society and the economy by SYRIZA austerity and anti-development policy. We will design a sustainable and self-supported development for the benefit of genuine solid and broad social cohesion. Seventh, the next budget for 2021 will be based on new data, as radical reforms will be implemented. As we have now understood, ladies and gentlemen, Greece has opened the door from the fiscal crisis in 2014. If SYRIZA election had not taken place, the referendum and the third memorandum, we would have followed the rise of the other euro area states as early as 2015. We have lost 10 units of GDP in these years. Finally, the economy began to improve in 2019 really, when the prospect of government change was consolidated. So in a way that we may have come out of the budgetary crisis, the Mitsotakis Government may succeed in stabilising the prospects in the economy, society may feel calm and optimistic, as all public opinion investigations show, but that is not enough. We need to achieve dynamic growth. How and when can this happen? When three developments occur: Increase the available income of private sector employees at a rate of at least twice the inflation rate and even better for internationally competitive enterprises. Increasing employment, which means reducing unemployment below 12%. Increase new investment to 25% of GDP. Attention, however: The rational series of these developments is first the investments, which will bring new and good jobs, which will pay better wages. The increase in investment, however, is not in the hands of the state. It's not the government that decides what entrepreneurs will do. Despite the dozens of regulations adopted by Parliament and already positively affect the business climate, the whole society needs to change attitudes. That's not easy at all. It's not just a case. It takes time. What, then, will give an impressive boost to investment? In my opinion, it is a change of attitude to society, that is to say, in relation to the valuable role of business, business profits and the facilitation of all means of entrepreneurship, especially by public services and courts. We know that society is changing slowly, especially because, historically, a completely hostile mentality has been cultivated by the forces of populism. This, however, which can and must immediately change attitudes is the political world, at least the two major parties. That is what will guide public opinion, in this way, independent justice will be mobilised. The parliamentary majority has shown that it understood what mistakes may have been made in the extreme past and is determined not to allow for their repetition. The difficulty is therefore on the side of the counterpopulation. Will SYRIZA choose the camp of progress? Would he prefer to play this game and support the effort of an investment upload? Can the components and political immigrants, coalitioned in Koumoundourou, abandon anti-capitalist dogmatism and support the self-evident fact that the operation must be the valuable link of society? Up to now, everything shows that it is more likely, Civic Opposition will prefer the disastrous approach of 'not to all', of blocking, i.e., reforms, social unrest and unbearable promises. The new SYRIZA shows that it prefers to appear as a left hand by adopting any turbulence, in the hope of perhaps a new crisis in the euro zone, which could bend Greece's development perspective. Does Mr. Tsipras work in the model of a failure, which ensures a historic second round? This does not prevent me, however, from agreeing with Mr Tsakalotou's concern about the reduction in the share of wage earner in the national product, which, unfortunately, continues. However, we could not reach a fertile conclusion and therefore take the right steps to change this imbalance unless we recognise the cause of this reduction, which is low competitiveness. We need investments to create new and better paid jobs, which will not reduce the share of wage earner. No matter how much intervention the state is doing, this is not going to change. It will be a happy juncture if Mr Alexis Tsipras confirms, whenever he finds the opportunity, a recent statement on the social media that: "In times of crisis, the key issue for the economy is to implement the critical reforms and to have a structured effort to attract investment." From his mouth to God's ear!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u246	Athanasios Athanasios Athanasios has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u247	I am surprised to hear today those who left in December 2014 the 10-year-old bond interest rate at 9% - a world-wide record! - to speak as they speak. On the other hand, I do not have any illusions. Where am I addressing you? I am addressing a government majority, which, within four months, violated the Constitution. By working on university asylum, it established the madness that the law can overthrow a constitutional guarantee. One. Two: He retrospectively legislated on local government, violating constitutional principles of freedom of elections and legitimate expectations. Three: by finally pursuing the state, he created a supreme government, undermining the constitutionally guaranteed role of the government. That doesn't smell like a state. I'll say it openly: it smells like pre-accession failure. Four: C.E.L.D. Five: Competition Committee. Six: Promoting the monosale of television information violates the constitutional principles of equality, objectivity and quality. Seven: it is not a mere violation, ladies and gentlemen, but a real diversion. One hundred and twenty Members will be able to elect a President of the Republic, which the remaining one hundred and eighty reject. And I directly say to the government and to you: will we elect Pavlopoulou President with two hundred forty votes, or will we go to President of the hundred and twenty votes, as I have heard in a café of the Menidian, a shiny best friend? I say it popular, but it is an unrelenting example. So how can you talk about the budget of such a government, which, I repeat, within four months has broken the Constitution seven times? I will take two pictures of pages 47 of the preliminary draft government budget and 127 of the State Budget report: "The completion of the third programme last year, following the implementation of the medium-term debt relief measures and the strengthening of the cash buffer available - created favourable conditions for the uninterrupted financing of the Greek State through the markets". It's a real picture. I congratulate Mr. Stakoura. This cash buffer, these 37 billion euros, left to you by the SYRIZA government, your friend analyst, described them as "nuclear weapons". How can interest rates not be disembodied with nuclear weapons? Let's go to the second photo. For the first time, since 2010, the Hellenic Republic has implemented three bond issues within one year. Here it must be wrong in the draft budget report - one was afraid to write -, proving the normalisation of Greece's access to international capital markets, with a remarkable event of issuing ten years of bond issue for the first time since 2010. I repeat that in December 2014 you left the ten-year bond with 9%. Is this erasing? Does the story come out? Some modesty I think it's necessary. This is a budget of many questions and secret taxes. First of all, will you be able to increase GDP from 190 billion to 197 billion? Will you be able to triple the speed of private consumption increase? Will you manage to reduce the costs of operators by 800 million? I wish. The major opposition will not fall to the level of torpedoing your efforts, the level at which you fell by organizing even secret missions in Brussels and London to strengthen the line "Vasta Gerun, hang Soible". This has also been done on SYRIZA - and I am adding a valid one and I take responsibility - it has also happened in the previous Minister of State, Mr Stavoura. About the hidden tax: the taxpayer is required to collect 30% of his income in electronic transactions, otherwise he will pay a tax of 22% for the rest. Since 30% of rent does not include rent, it does not include housing loan, many will fail. They're waiting at the 22% tax angle. Besides, you have budgeted an increase in the EMS by 140 million euros. Also, Greek households will be charged 323 million euros in the coming year. As, when it becomes apparent, ladies and gentlemen, that eight out of ten freelance professionals will pay EUR 220 instead of EUR 168 as a minimum insurance contribution, what will you have to say to them? Basic honesty requires that you tell them now to prepare people. Each budget is also an emergency budget. And the richest countries would like to have more. But you had a different path and, because of your micropsy, you rejected it. You rejected Escrow account, where along with 700 million would raise 2.5 billion to drop the market. That was SYRIZA's policy and you rejected it. I'll use a phrase by Kostis Hatzidakis as an epilogue. He said here that "if PPC falls, the banks fall, the national economy will fall". The banks will not fall and the national economy will not fall if they give the sea-lovings of your parties and the media. "If PPC falls, the banks fall, the national economy will fall," Mr. Hatzidakis said weeks ago, but this will not happen if the banks do the best for the "FORTHNET" loans by 85%. "If PPC falls, the banks fall, the national economy will fall, but all of them will go before we forget the loan of "KERYKA MANY". If PPC falls the banks will fall, the national economy will fall, but nothing will happen if there is a drop from 45% to 22% of the EIF's and OEM's tax on the transfer of soccer players and basketball players for contracts of over 40,000 euros. He asked for it, and you did it. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] There is a huge moral issue here. I think you couldn't help it. The empire of the interlocutory was counter-attacked and the elections of 7 July prevailed. She'll eat you and Greece. And you're calming down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ploris from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u249	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds. Who did Hatzidakis mean me or Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Colleague, did you mean Mr. Hatzidakis, your colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u251	Oh, my god.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no. All right, so we're on. Mr. Flouris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u253	Before entering my main position, I take the challenge of what we will say to the freelance professionals and the self-employed, who are many here and know what we have experienced, Mr Athanasios, because we have experienced it. Colleagues - to see them in SYRIZA too - do you know what we're going to say? We'll say that, because we don't have tax free, so we're taxed from the first euro, 22% to 9%, you know what it means? It means 1,300 euros gain. It means 1,300 euros right away to 10,000 euros and that from 22% to 9%. So the EUR 25 on the lowest scale, that is to say, for those who are still on the lowest scale, gives him the benefit of at least EUR 1 000 at EUR 10,000. What's going on in 5,000 euros income? In 5000 euros income, instead of 1,300 euros, it has a benefit of 650 euros again with the difference.... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Are we going to have a dialogue? You want to talk? No, because you're talking and I'm telling you that from 22% to 9% he wants math. EUR 10 000 paid a tax, because we lawyers pay from the first euro - you don't pay it and perhaps you don't know it, because you're in another business category, we pay from the first euro - and at EUR 2,200 we have a benefit of EUR 1,300. Is that understandable? This is from 22% to 9%. Of the EUR 3,300 yes, whoever was on the lowest insurance scale over there has a small burden that, however, the benefit of the whole is much higher. Let's go to the budget - and that's the nice essence of the debate - see what's on the agenda for each side here. The Left as a whole has the philosophy, that we have a pie, which, in principle, if we can ever increase it, we will only increase it through the statism, so in fact this pie is not growing and we are looking to share this pie in a way that, possibly, favours certain social classes, which you can characterize as low layers or anything. You're actually making a choice. What does that mean? That the Left makes an equal distribution of poverty. So we have poverty and we distribute it among ourselves. So by disseminating this poverty and having a misery that we see where the Left prevailed, the state has a dominant weapon. What's the gun? That by exceedingly taxing those who are in an average category and above, they are collecting a sum that they are baptising'redistribution of wealth', while in reality it is this only subsidy policy that it has, which is to keep it, which is low in the context of constantly giving it an allowance to have direct dependence on the state and we do not actually tell him that this man will improve his level of life, because the Left does not want this, because the Left, when he has a sovereign state and all powers, wants to have as low a level as possible, wants to have as low an allowance at the end of the year to think that he is doing social policy. This policy is something that we are voting against. What are we voting for? We are voting for the policy, which comes, which we say yes to the liberal economy which may also have an unequal distribution, but which one? That poverty, wealth, because the aim is to increase this wealth. How does this wealth grow? With private investment that comes, which will come out - obviously, I will not tell you anything strange, it happens all over the world - because the person you invite him to come here to put money must expect that he will benefit from the money he will put, you do not invite him to put his money to lose, but you create such a framework that he will also benefit, but this pie will also increase. And growing this pie, in fact gives all layers of society the opportunity to go better, because some people will find jobs, instead of relying solely on the state alone, since when will the time come to give something, they will find their own job. They will find a better job, because more jobs will come and a picture will also be given that we are now entering a normal western economy, which gives opportunities and does not punish the one who can create wealth. Because, creating wealth and gaining himself, respectively, it will help other people from where they are to climb financially and to have a normal economy. So our aim was clear: we wanted to reduce taxes. And the reduction of taxes in the first stage you saw was also for businesses from 28% to 24%, but also for natural persons. Watch what's going on. 83% of tax returns, if you see the placement of the Minister, Mr Stakoura, is less than 20,000 euros. This means that 83% is favoured by the reduction from 22% to 9%. Because we must be honest, especially in the free trade and the self-employed, there is a greater possibility, unfortunately, of evasion, as opposed to others who are employed. What are you giving them now? On the one hand, the evidence measure comes in, and on the other hand, because it will have 30% to show how it is spent, so that it is not taxed. Moreover, with the reduction of tax rates you can go to more honest tax statements. He, in other words, who makes 20,000 or 25 000 euros and because of tax evasion, states 10,000 or 12 000 euros, except that you control it and push it, leads it to a more real statement, because he will ultimately pay the same tax if he knows he has 9% of the import rate. Going to a more sincere statement, he is given a greater consumption capacity, because he will create any place you would go to spend. At the same time, what other possibility is given to him? There is a possibility of an overall increase in GDP, which overall gives the country a better balance, because everything depends on GDP by reference to the figures, which exist. With these thoughts, we say that we are voting for the liberal budget that comes from the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis and we are the ones that will prove to you every day that liberalism actually has a social person, because all people are interested in having equal opportunities and not having people to just share allowances.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Floris is a fellow lawyer. He talked about the freelance professionals. But he forgot to say something that happened a few days ago. To see how the tax goes, let's talk about lawyers. They put the famous "stamp" on people who seek justice. They're asking for 250,000 euros? The lawyer's pay is reduced to 2,500. I'm telling you about history because my dear colleague, Mr. Ploris, reminded me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u256	And the premiums.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u257	Let's not forget the premiums. But on the substance of the matter. It is the second budget after the end of the memoranda with the Government of the New Democracy. As by magic, light was made! Oh, of the miracle, we strive very quickly to complete the destiny of the tribe, ladies and gentlemen. Greece has now become the Promised Land for its inhabitants, as well as for its massive foreign investors. I'm not kidding, really. I'm just sorry about how you practice politics and how you use your friendly media, you're trying to convince the world about the correctness of your policy. Really, where did your promises go to the Greek people? I said I went feathers. The citizen slowly begins to experience false words, great words, in his everyday life. Whatever questions my colleagues or colleagues from the other parties have asked you, you are answering vaguely and the last time you answer is "we people have chosen, our programme has voted". Do you know how many times I've heard from Mr. Mitsotakis? You always applaud the corresponding times. All right, well, you win. We found out from this side, we injected it. Over, what's going on? That's the point. We tell you - and many have said so here - that every day you will be accountable to Parliament and the people, regardless of whether you have the media. In order to be fair to the people, we have to tell him that politics and, above all, the current economic reality has been shaped since August 2018. We left the memorials and the question that anyone is asking: What did you find from the SYRIZA government and where are you walking? You keep spying on that question. You're always spying on it. Wholesale, let me remind you that you led us to bankruptcy and the memorandum. Did you forget? Do we accept that by whistling indifferently? May I remind you that you reduced GDP by 25%? May I remind you that the percentage of the population living in poverty was 44.3% in 2013 and 48% in 2018? May I remind you of the unemployment rate that reached 28% in 2014? May I remind you that private sector wages fell by about 20%, while public wage cuts reached up to 60%? May I remind you of the pension cuts? Let me leave it because this hurts too much, dear friend Stephane, colleague from Corfu. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not go on because I do not have much time to talk about so many details. I would remind you, however, that by SYRIZA you have received a country with regulated debts, full of funds, with EUR 37 billion in reserve and not committed, as some Undersecretary of State, whose name I do not remember and to forgive me, with reduced unemployment, reduced poverty rates, and there was hope. The media, however, have it and you bomb people. You yourself, in the preliminary draft budget you have presented, are celebrating SYRIZA's policy in the field of the economy. Now, after the end of the memorials, you are trying to take advantage of SYRIZA's economic policy, not for the benefit of the social majority, but for the benefit of the "days". You know what you're doing. You have electionally raised the tons for overtaxing the middle class. With the twenty-nine taxes that SYRIZA was supposed to impose, what did you do? Do you remember where you climbed the tiles, the bell of St. Spyridon, we tell Corfu? Where are they, ladies and gentlemen, why didn't you abolish them? Ladies and gentlemen, why in your budget are you including all these infamous twenty-nine unjust taxes? I repeat. The SYRIZA government left a financial space and reserve. So why don't you reduce them? So I see in the budget that you want to collect extra taxes some EUR 1.2 billion. I say to you that you will receive them from the world, because in your tax bill that was adopted the day before yesterday, all you have done was to relieve your own people and the great economic interests. I should probably point out that your government is envisioning a tax haven for the "losers", fireplaces and all the state-owned businesspeople. Many of my colleagues have said that. So let me say how I see things in the budget. It is the most aggressive framework of public property deprivation by the GOI. You'll sell it all. Here we are and you'll see. The port of Corfu, my dear fellowship, goes for sale. Hundreds of thousands of people go to our island. You want these hundreds of thousands of tourists to channel them into specific economic interests, and now they are spread over the whole island. On the issue of barren lines, what about subsidising the famous equivalent of transport? I am not talking about that any more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna hang up with this because the time's over. What about local government? Where did the program "PHILIDIS" disappear? Why didn't you ask the world of self-government to consult about its abolition? Received from the best traditions of the state, of the rosphetius, Mr. Theodorikos's practice towards the municipalities. The ‘PHILOPOS’ programme provided for financing projects on the basis of objective criteria and technical evaluation. Repealed. I can't see the hundred mayors calling you. Why? You really want to build a financing system with the character of the ruffle. Does that not serve, Mr. Minister, the appointment of the legal counsel of Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Ilias Yatsios, to the position of President at the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government? Mr Yiannis Skalkos, director of the political office, is hereby appointed as Vice President. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I see I don't have any more time to talk and I'll close. Ladies and gentlemen, your first budget after the end of the memoranda is nothing more than the policy pursued by your friends in the People's Party in Europe. Antisocial, anti-developmental, deep ideoleptic and neoliberal. But this recipe has failed miserably. The only realistic prospect is fair and equalised growth, alleviating economic and social inequality by protecting wages, protecting the environment, with a social state, by analogous taxation. In conclusion, this is a piece of legislation that gives a lot to the few and a few. Thousands of times you'll hear that line. I am therefore voting against your budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Comrade, thank you. Mr. Lambropoulos has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr. Pulas from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that the National Representation has been discussing these days expresses the change brought by the recent parliamentary elections to our country and marks the other conception of the Left, which has ruled four and a half years together with Mr Kammenos. The outdated ideological strangles and practices of the government of Mr. Tsipras kept Greece back in a period of good international economic context. They did not create an attractive investment climate. They did not go ahead with the great investments like the Greek one. They have driven out large businesses from the country. Small and medium sized. They did not move on to reforms that our place needed. They didn't open up business. Our young people left abroad. The conscious exterior tax imposed and the high contributions to free professionals and businesses plummeted the market, reduced the demand, brought packages and poorly undermined all Greeks. The bloody surpluses of 3.5% signed have denounced the economy and prevented any development initiative. Mr Tsipras' left-wing government increased the VAT that struck the poor and cut off the EASS, also the poor and helpless of our society. They are the ones who endured for ninety years all the public property of our country, even the archaeological sites. Something that has not been done in any country in the world. With the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, another wind was blown. The messages to reduce the taxation of insurance contributions, the consolidation of the security of citizens, the promotion of reforms, the simplification of the licensing procedures for businesses and the better functioning of our state have changed the image of our country abroad and created another psychology in our business world and our people. As a result of these interest rates have fallen very low, banks have stirred and businesses are now hoping for support and progress. The infrastructure projects that our country needs have put us on SYRIZA. Tragic example is the road of Patras - Tower. Four and a half years have not planned, started and completed any of their work. The Tripolis-Kalamata motorway planned, auctioned, was ratified in Parliament in three years 2004-2007 by the then government of New Democracy gave Messinia enormous development prospects. Along with the recent announcement by the current Prime Minister and the Minister of Infrastructure to build infrastructure for the construction of the road from Kalamata to Pylos and Methoni, they take off tourist and economics in Messinia. We also believe in the financing and auctioning of the Tsakona road - Good Water to build the famous western axis that will unite Kalamata with the Tower, Patras with the Yannina in a short time and safely. The mistakes, the lack of politics and the indifference of the previous government have put our farmers in a difficult position since in recent years their income has shrinked, prices in oil, olives and other products, such as milk in our farmers, have fallen to historically low levels. It must be methodically with short- and long-term measures to limit the high cost of production of our farmers to move on to restructuring and new crops. To support young farmers financially. Illegal imports and Greekizations of agricultural and livestock products must be stopped. Restructure agricultural cooperatives on a sound legal framework and create in parallel with the private sector infrastructures for standardisation and exports of products. This government has a lot to do. And it started dynamically. The citizens see it and they support us. Our country will come out of the great crisis. It will make the big leap to growth, exports, improve our citizens' living standards. We all united together will work to rebuild our country's economy and prestige. With strong economy we will also have powerful armed forces better police, better health services, better education, better welfare. With unity, cooling, good preparation and faith in our history we will also face any challenges of Turkey. I propose that some of the surpluses should now be allocated to the Armed Forces for spare parts. Anyone who wants peace is preparing for any chance. Thank you. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement, and immediately afterwards Mr. Kavadas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u261	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, your government has assumed historic responsibilities. It is not only the preparedness that you must show to the pressure from our eastern neighbours that is primarily the responsibility of making the economic, fiscal and social reforms that the country needs. This is the opportunity that has been lost over the last four years of inertia and political idealism. Unlike the expectations you have created for the citizens, the first budget you are tabling as a government is awkward, uncertain and atmospheric. Unfortunately, you are following the perpetrators of the previous government. Over-inflation, lack of a strategic targeting strategy, tax evasion without linking them to job creation and investment, over-taxation, limiting forecasts based on arbitrary estimates, own expenditure on public investment and miscellaneous tax rates without any substantial reduction in incomes. The achievement of the socially unjust budget you have tabled is based on three figures. Increasing private consumption, investment and favourable international developments. Sizes, of course, fluctuating. International developments are already negative. In terms of increasing consumption there is no improvement in terms of maintaining overtaxation and the inability of banks to support the Greek economy for 10 years. Private investment is a dream of fraud, due to fiscal and geopolitical instability. You are well aware of the precarious nature of the forecasts, and that is why you are trying to create an economic pillow, the special reserve to cover the holes where they are created. Unfortunately, your supposedly ready government shows inertial use of public property, retreated to banks in terms of the management of private debt and the protection of the first home, increased taxation by an additional 773 million, promising that it will sometime distribute them as a tip to the poor Greeks. Greek citizens need jobs, prospects and hope, especially in the region. In my prefecture, Argolida, we need infrastructure projects both in the primary and in the tourism sector. For example, it is not as important a project as Anavalos to stand still for so many years, at the same time that you all know that if this work is done, it will give a solution to the problems of irrigation of the regions, especially Ermionidas, which are at risk of desertification. Also, the Argolida farmers, like all over the country, are in a bad financial situation at the very low prices they sell their products. To speak of my prefecture, at this time prices in oil and citrus are extremely low. They do not cover the cost of production. Also, the interconnection of Argolida with the national road must be your immediate priority. There is no way a seven-8 km road has not yet been included in any financial programme. As far as health is concerned, I would like to say that your budget is revealing the direction in which you are moving. Low state funding, increased burdens on citizens, lack of a plan to improve health services, address the withdrawals of ERC doctors through ancillary contracts through ERCs. In particular, you are reducing the grant to hospitals for 2020 by EUR 37 million, a 3% reduction. You reduce by EUR 22 million wage costs in health, while at the same time forwarding recruitment. Increase the budget by 100 million for EEA providers. You reduce the cost of personnel and services at the Health Care Primary by 37 million. Keep the increased contributions for insured persons. Keep the proportion of public health expenditure as a percentage of GDP at 4.33%, when 2010 was 6.6%. The figures on the health situation in the country are revealing. After ten years, the total cost of health, private and public, amounts to 7.8% of GDP, much below the average of the OECD countries. The minimum public resources for prevention amount to EUR 20 per person, while the average in the European Union is EUR 89. Greeks who find it difficult to pay the care services went up to 8.3% of the population in 2018, while 2009 was only 4%. Since the beginning of the crisis, Greeks have lost a year and a half since their life expectancy. They have also lost their confidence in the state for their health and security. You are dealing with this with additional reductions and further deterioration of the National Health System. At the time that money is available, which you share in relation to public health, you also reserve other reductions which, in addition to the most acute demographic and migration problem, create an explosive economic and social mix. I do not want to believe that this constant depreciation has to do with attempting to privatise public health structures, with private individuals entering hospitals and the return of the health system in our country when the ERC did not exist. It goes without saying that any attempt to return the health system in the past will be reactioned by the Change Movement. Unlike health policy, it is time for you to take substantial initiatives, as ageing the population together with demographic problem, create chain reactions across the whole range of economic and social life. For example, the integration of recruitments of permanent staff in the ESS, which will provide new scientific staff with our hospitals, the development of health-stage technology for a modern design that meets the needs of today's population, the creation of new modern infrastructures mainly in the region. In this context, it is necessary to create a new modern hospital in Argolida, in place of the two existing obsolete and exhausted buildings and operating hospitals of Argos and Nafplio. Their creation in an existing area intended for public use and with funds that can be found either through the Public Investment Programme or through the European Funds will definitively resolve the issue of hospital coverage of a hundred thousand inhabitants with increased tourist value. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens' health is a national priority. It is a national bet and it cannot be experimented. For the Movement of Change, health protection is a priority and a political tradition. We hope that, even now, these concerns will be taken seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u262	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately after Mrs. Tyrigoridou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a budget that gives hope for the future. The country is changing, entering a new era after a decade of recession. International rating agencies have moved to upgrades in Greece's credit rating and the country has increasingly reduced the route it needs to cover to return to the normality of the euro area states. In a short time, since the takeover of governance, we have covered the budget gap for 2019 inherited from the previous government and covered the 2020 financial result. For the third time in two months Greece was borrowed from the markets at a negative interest rate, since the interest rate in the 6-month-old stock bills was shaped in its historical low minus 0.02%. Greece has also achieved the early repayment of EUR 2.7 billion to the International Monetary Fund. International economic agents with prestige speak of the recovery of the Greek economy. The US Minister for Trade, Mr. Wilbur Ross, spoke with very flattering words about Greece's dynamic return to markets and about the policy of attracting investment followed by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The main priorities of the government's budgetary strategy for 2020 are: increasing growth, reducing overtaxation, strengthening investments and the public's available income and supporting vulnerable social groups. We are therefore moving in the opposite direction to the previous government that over-taxed the citizens and reduced their purchasing power. The aim of today's government is to attract investment with flexibility and speed in procedures. I would like to express my satisfaction at the acceptance of the proposal I have tabled to reduce the thresholds above which an investment can be described as a strategy. This is a proposal that has been accepted in the development bill, which is now a law of the State. An arrangement that paves the way for significant investment throughout the country, including the construction of the marina in Vlychos Lefkada. Ladies and gentlemen: the 2020 budget incorporates tax reductions totalling EUR 1.2 billion, which we recently voted on in the tax bill, such as: Reducing the tax rate for enterprises from 28% to 24%. Reduction of the tax rate for natural persons and for incomes up to EUR 10,000 from 22% today to 9%. Maintain the tax-free limit while increasing the tax-free limit by 1,000 euros for each child. Reduction of the tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. A reduction of 5% of the tax paid this year to enterprises. Suspension of VAT on building for a three-year period and value tax on real estate sales. Establish a allowance of EUR 2,000 for each child born after 1 January 2020 with income criteria covering 90% of families. Reduction of insurance contributions by unit. Reduction of HPAI to which the Government has moved from the first days of its term of office. Payment of an increased heating oil allowance to be collected by the beneficiaries by 31 December 2019, and their number has been extended. The government's objective is high and sustainable growth rates, and for 2020 the budget provides for a growth rate of 2.8%, which is absolutely possible. The slowing down of growth in previous years, ladies and gentlemen, was due to the far beyond the high primary surpluses resulting from overtaxation. We are achieving the objectives of the surpluses, but we will not follow the path of far overcoming, because we want to create a financial area, in order to reduce taxes even further, but also to strengthen social spending. At the same time, a new model of monitoring the general government's expenditure and revenues has been activated, with the aim of making general government services more reciprocity for citizens, but also of being assessed, so as to avoid waste. In this direction, more than twenty specific actions will be implemented, such as a reduction in revenue from urban transport tickets, optimising methods of municipal revenue collection, energy saving, electronic document handling, the use of public buildings and others. The budget also provides for an increase in private consumption from 0.6% this year to 1.8%, but also for exports from 4.9% to 5.1% for 2020. With the reduction of taxes and the strengthening of the competitiveness of Greek enterprises, export activity will move into a steady upward orbit in the years to come. Ladies and gentlemen, after many years of recession, we have a budget that gives hope for the future. The budget has developmental characteristics and will further improve the economic climate for market psychology, and will consistently move into our basic pre-election commitment, tax reduction. The previous government has faithfully served only one objective, citizens' overtaxation. It imposed taxes without end, without logic, without a development mark. As a consequence of its election commitments, the New Democracy Government proves that there is another way to Greece. The road to reducing taxes, growth, competitiveness, increasing entrepreneurship and employment, and the incomes of all citizens. The big government bet, ladies and gentlemen, is that Greece should be a country that is friendly to investors through targeted interventions. This bet is earned by the 2020 budget, which is why we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor. Next is Mr.Tascakis from New Democracy and Mrs. Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past four years, despite the difficulties and suffocating economic pressures, the SYRIZA government has managed to keep the horizons of society open and we have been able, with the exit from the memoranda, to make conditions for the prospect of creating and moving with social justice towards progress and development. Today, then, there were prerequisites for us to have the beginning of a positive path and a favourable policy for our people. With the budget, however, which is being tabled today, there is a different perception. Instead of fair growth, the New Democracy returns to the collapse of the state's ability to fulfil its basic obligations for education, health and social protection. In other words, this budget will bring growth. In reality, however, it will not only lead to real growth, but will feed back on the diseases that have led us to the economic crisis. It is well known that the recipe, not in the interests of the country's productive potential, but for the benefit of a naive, private sector, and indeed of great economic interests. The recipe will lead to the decline of individual and family incomes for the vast majority and will undermine social cohesion. When the theatre of propaganda and communication fall, everyone will be able to see in practice: First of all, no discussion about the reduction of the primary surpluses, which was the pre-election flag of the New Democracy. No reason for more than 4% growth, we are going to the question from the Commission, the IMF and the OECD 2.8%, and whether we will do so. We will see the continuation, without any reduction in the advance tax, despite the election announcements. We will see again the contribution of solidarity, without realising the commitments in the run-up to it. We will see EUR 600 million in favour of 2.5% of the country's businesses, from lowering taxes. We will see the great relief of the low and medium-sized layers by 17 euros. We will see the increase of ENVY through the objective values, the reduction of the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development by EUR 50 million. This will say "interest" of the New Democracy for the development of primary production, which otherwise says will help relaunch the Greek economy. We will also have a reduction in the privileged allowances of AMEs by EUR 173 million, a reduction in family allowances of 139 million, a reduction in the rental allowance of 53 million. However, you have a skill. You can do the black, white to misinform the citizens. So this morning, on ERT1, the Deputy Minister of Labour, Michailidou, in the journalists' questions about the reduction of allowances, he said: "I did not say this to you, but I should also stress this in the previous period, that we would give the benefit of mountainous and disadvantaged areas, it is not great, it is around 300 euros cut off by the SYRIZA government." And to inspire it, the viewers said it twice. ‘SYRIZA's government had cut it.’ So let us tell the State Secretary that lies or ignorant are because this allowance has never been cut, and it has not even been EUR 300, but it has been up to EUR 600. In this budget, therefore, despite your misunderstanding, we will see a reduction in expenditure on pharmaceuticals, a reduction in expenditure on higher education, for heating oil that you tried to present to us as an increase when out of the 695 euros that the citizens could and received with our own governance, now you have to be married to four children, you have to get all the quantity by 31 December - then there is no winter, because according to Mr Kikilia, winter in Greece lasts two months - to get 350 euros. On the other hand, there is no reason in this budget for any discussion to increase the minimum wage. Were you or weren't you, gentlemen, the ones who said the minimum wage would increase in line with the growth rate of twice the rate? Don't you think it'll be 2.8% of the growth rate? So where is the increase in the minimum wage of 5.6%? This is therefore the value of employment for the New Democracy. We have a reduction in the budget for the OAED programmes. Development - says - will come through the building. We're suspending VAT on building. And that obviously concerns the second, third, fourth, and not the majority of the Greek people who, anyway, had no reduction. Back, then, rapidly in the vicious circle of austerity, in the vicious circle of the old one dressed in new clothes. Because we have said - and the latent language tells the truth - that communication is of interest to the New Democracy and not to the substance. So we have superstition promises that have misled the world. In practice, we will not only have a shrinking of expectations, but also a shrinking of our own social status. We are voting against this budget because it refers to the few and the chosen ones. That's right-wing plan. This, however, is unfortunately the plan of old Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new budget marks an attempt by the government to reinstate the Greek economy. It legally captures what we promised in the pre-elections and seals the first months of New Democracy's governance with a positive appreciation. In 2015, the country was afflicted by amateur improvisations and paid an expensive ticket. The policy of overcrowding and the incurring government tax raid cost 11.4 billion euros. The outstanding debts increased by 18.1 billion euros. The Government of the New Republic has put an end to the capital controls. It discounted the most expensive part of the loan to the International Monetary Fund. He gave the possibility of protecting the first residence. Citizens have more effectively regulated their tax debts. This is called a return to dignity, a return to normality for the country and the citizens. Our partners and the international community have rewarded our policies so far. This is confirmed by the government bond yields and the upgrading of the country's credit rating capacity by known rating houses. Debt sustainability is aimed at reducing primary surpluses. Reforms will result in an expected increase in growth rate of 2.8%. The reduction in tax rates will stimulate liquidity in businesses and citizens. We give back to the citizens' wallet and the microprofessional and entrepreneur's fund. We encourage entrepreneurship. We protect the worker. We take care of the economically weakest groups in the population. We are moving rapidly, with optimism and realism, with households and development, but also with social care, where necessary and with greater sensitivity, where necessary. Mr Ministers, Evros can fill the state funds, provided we have peace, security, stability and dissuasive power. Our geographical position implies a wealth of unexploited possibilities in terms of state revenue. We're between two countries on big markets. We must plan our measures so that we can do what each Greek wishes. The active customs offices in the region are in operation as they fall short of infrastructure and staffing capacity. Mostly, over the last five years, unfortunately, they have been despised. The Garden Customs Office, the gate of Greece and Europe, could ensure customers, passengers, goods and profits, of course, in the cost-effective new Egnatia, which is the only complaining European highway that has no traffic. Unfortunately, we're all working for what we call Egnatia. The x-ray machine recently placed at the Garden Customs is not working efficiently. The relevant Customs office of northern Evros, the Castanes, expects to be upgraded, because the market in the neighbouring country can accept our highly industrial and industrial products, which we have, in fact, are produced in the county. The customs offices of Ormenio and Kyprinos should be strengthened with a specialised staff force preventing the trade, first at the border and, secondly, within the county. The result today is unfavourable. Illegal product loads are placed on the market. He's losing our trade and our state. We need new modern infrastructure through PPPs, capable of staffing and assigning, where de minimis competences are required in the private sector. The primary sector is a source of wealth. 80% of the area of the county is cultivable. 60% of this is irrigable. Our livestock farming ensures 5% of national milk production. Our dairy industry is processing 8% of the country. We want the attention of all of you. We call on the exploitation of the marine vital area of the Thracian Pelaps and the Northeastern Aegean through transport and not just. We call on the new maritime Egnatia to button in Alexandroupolis with the new Egnatia road and to be a transport hub. The Evros catchment area fed an empire, ladies and gentlemen. Show affection and interest. Evros will return to the country the multiples of those who invest in his infrastructure and people. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no magical recipe justifying all the positive aspects and forecasts of the budget. There's reason and responsibility. There is an intent to house and a prospect of exiting from vicious circles. We are washing wounds and we are preparing the ground for development with social justice. There is no Greek who doesn't want to erase from his memory the last four years, except, of course, the former governors, as all the team of counterpopulation showed by his word, here, these days. As Greeks we regain self-esteem. As citizens we regain confidence in the state and its institutions. Because with this budget the economy is going through a period of prosperity, sustainable development and an increase in the incomes of the Greeks, because the New Democracy's election commitments that the first budget will not impose additional restrictive measures and reduce the burden on households and businesses, because the budget is developmental and, at the same time, social, for these reasons, I am voting in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Then Mrs. Pulu will speak from SYRIZA. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Madam President. If anyone has been following the budget debate these days, he would probably think that he lives - let me speak - in a parallel universe. On the one hand, government officials are speaking with a pompous look on the first development budget, which brings relief air after so many years of crisis and monuments, and on the other hand, the SYRIZA's until recently rulings are talking about the social state and the benefits of the populace, and today the New Democracy's budget is abolishing them. They found a point of confrontation for a while, the one that came to him and became permanent, that New Democracy cut him down horizontally in order to raise him shortly with the rise of the objective values and that SYRIZA would cut him in half, when the moons allowed it, to justify somehow the simulation of one of the most unfair taxes, which came for a while and forgot to leave. Of course, there are also some who will rather recognize themselves to those who are blowing the air of the relief of the New Democracy. They are the large business groups, which have already secured more than half the surplus of 1.2 billion, which was created by the overtaxation of the people by reducing their tax from 28% to 24%, but also by the symbolic taxation of their profits to just 5% of the 10% already paid by SYRIZA. What if this relief were not so necessary, because they only contributed 5% of the State's tax revenue! The other 95% boasted and continues to really echo the workers, the pensioners, the small self-employed and farmers, who, with a memorable fellowship, are sacrificed in order and jointly with PASOK - KINAL today - New Democracy and SYRIZA with various willing colleagues each time. So the first budget drawn up in the period of growth and development, as you say, is not for everyone again. Another makes sacrifices, and another takes gifts from the wealth produced. The reality shown by the budget figures is already well known by the islanders, who, apart from the overall burden the people of the whole country, are also faced with the particular difficulties that distance from the mainland is objectively creating. What will the inhabitants of the islands mean or another year to reduce health expenditure by EUR 182 million? How will the already enormous shortages of medical, nursing and infrastructure, which tend to become normal for the islands’ hospitals and health centres, be addressed? For hospitals on the islands normality is for months, for example, the non-operation of the mastograph in Lesvos, the only pathologist who invented for thirty three consecutive days in Lemnos in summer, but also the constant deficiencies in vital specialities and equipment, which for a large part of the population excludes access to basic health services due to distance from Athens or other state health structures. This is a multitude of distances that are actually due to the extremely expensive but also incomplete coastal and airline connections for the majority of the islands. The example of Samothrace, which was left in August for 15 days without ferry connection is a scene that has been seen for years by the inhabitants of the islands, especially the northern Aegean. This is how shipowners return the gifts that all governments make on an abundance and on a permanent basis. What if the premium is paid each year to EUR 120 million for barren lines, is it exempt from excise duty on fuel? Even this transport equivalent finally worked as a subsidy to shipowners who found an opportunity to raise the cost of tickets further. Of course, this difference has also been covered by overtaxation of the people's strata. The transport equivalent used by SYRIZA to gold the pill to the islanders for the abolition of reduced VAT rates, a measure imposed by the third memorandum, which you have all voted together and automatically reduced the total cost of living on the islands. How do you really expect the rural world to survive on the islands, when, in addition to all the other burdens that have been borne over the years, degrading prices in milk, meat and oil produced by producers do not reach or undo the increased costs for agricultural supplies, tools and feed? You are actually moving them, in fact, every time they are destroyed by a zoonosis or disease in the olives, because they have not taken - you say - themselves, the measures that the state has not taken to protect them, and once again there is no single euro discount for farmers from excise duty on oil. Not one euro of these 400 million provided for in the budget for the exemptions of shipowners, airlines and other large-scale industrialists. These exemptions for farmers, as well as the reintroduction of reduced rates of VAT for all the islands, are referred to the bells. You fly it only for bait on the islands that you have converted into soul warehouses whenever you take measures to permanently and intensify the caging of thousands of refugees and immigrants in them. What can I say now about this measure? Can it, in fact, be regarded as a counterbalance to the inhuman and explosive situation on the islands? Of course, however, more dangerous and more worrying is the fact that, under the pretext of controlling refugee flows, you are stepping up and legalising NATO presence in the Aegean Sea at a time when, in fact, it is attempting to legitimise the people's consciousness about the plans for managing energy deposits with Turkey, in which navals are looking for a variety of predators and not just predators. The workers, the people, did not expect to see the figures and the budget debate so that they could understand that their lives are cornered to limits that do not fit their needs. But what they do not even have to realize is what is imposed by these suffocating limits. Because the restriction is not imposed by these objective possibilities that exist today, but by what all governments respectfully protect, the perpetuation of capitalist profit. This in all the budgets, with all the governments it holds well. The abolition of this barrier will not bring it to the law of any government. It will be imposed and claimed by the organized people. A step on this will be taken in the next few days by the workers. The Communist Party will again take the lead in this and take the lead in the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the debate today will be concluded after the end of Mrs Villali's speech from the New Democracy. It's the eighty-one in a row of subscribers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u271	Madam President, a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u272	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u273	Mrs. Kefalidou will speak tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u274	Yeah, everyone's been informed. I will now call Mrs Pulou from SYRIZA to Stepma, and then Mr. Skouriakos prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today considering the first budget of the New Democracy Government after twenty-five bills and four legislative acts, where an authoritarian, conservative, old-fashioned state of the right is systematically set up, and the cycle with the 2020 budget is thus closed, which precisely provides for the implementation of this policy, with an ideological mark of the policy for a few and very few at the expense of the middle class and lower layers. Where, really, do you drive the Greek society with all that you budget today to implement the design that you have already made in the five months of your governance? You lead it to general deregulation by abolishing values, rules and rights acquired over time with social struggles. You lead it to increased disparities by cutting the funds for the welfare state. Social cohesion and the reduction of the shear of extreme wealth and extreme poverty are unknown concepts to neoliberal perception and your policy. What are you going to say to the Greek people, who will suffer the effects of this policy? Because, in the run-up to the election, you were saying that it was possible for him to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see how social figures - budgetary forecasts are translated. In the development you were electorally speaking for an increase of 4%, you end up with 2.8% with alchemys and creative accounting. You are talking about incentives to businesses with your ultimate goal of attracting investment. That is why you are directing the EUR 616 million from the total EUR 1,018.00, i.e. 50% of the budget area, to businesses without guarantees for investments, since you also reduce dividend tax. And here, however, the lion's share will only be fruited by 2.5% of the businesses, the six thousand large businesses, which will actually gain over a million euros a year. How do small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for over 85% of the business world in our country, benefit accordingly? Your answer has been given by GSEW. You were electorally talking about abolishing the twenty-nine unfair taxes of the SYRIZA government. Really, who or who are you retiring? You say that wages will increase while you have already abolished collective agreements, but also the insurance controls on redundancies. Of course, you predict that all these good things will increase in 2020, and indeed the only bad one, the problem of unemployment, in other words, will be reduced by growth. However, three and a half thousand young scientists will be on the road, employed through OAED programmes. They also expected two and a half thousand doctors and nurses in 2019 on the basis of the Ministry of Health notice. But unfortunately you didn't make it. They also expect work of teachers, teachers, specialized scientific staff, who are glad to see that your own children will be hired and not qualified. We are government and we are changing the criteria, qualifications, wages and laws as they serve us, provided that our own children are taken care of at a fat wage! You also said that in the position of these three and a half thousand workers, you would hire five hundred others with a salary of EUR 3 000. What do you say in social policy? You say that much has been done by the previous government and because it is deregulation by ideology of what the SYRIZA government has done, it is now time to reduce the costs of the social state! In fact, contact drumcrossors the youth’s allowance with 2,000 euros for each child, as if you were speaking other language than Greek. What Greek citizen does not understand that this is a gift for a firework in front of the real needs of the Greek family? There are needs in social structures, in nursery and childcare stations, in education, in health, in culture, in sport and in other needs of real life, where - in everything I have said - you are making cuts. What do the predictions show? Reduction of the Ministry of Labour's budget by EUR 369 million, and will also be called upon to cover supplementary pensions after the decision of the Council of State from its own budget. Furthermore, the five hundred thousand outstanding pensions - which are fortunately only 100 - declared by Minister Brutsi that they will be handled within a month or months, what will become of them? Which budget will be covered after the corresponding code is reduced by EUR 200 million? Something's wrong with proclamations and numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a generous increase in the budget, and that is about the expenditure of the presidency of the Government. The expenditure is tripled to 30.2 million compared with 9.8 million of the 2019 budget. The estimated payroll cost for 2020 is 17.4 million, while for 2019 it was only 7.9 million. Even if the national printing works costing 5.5 million in 2019 are covered by the Presidency budget, there is still an increase of about 5 million. It is the cost of this ministerial, state-of-the-art, state-of-the-art, which has been in such a hurry - as has been ready for some time - you have voted to help other children as postmortems without formal qualifications. I would like to refer to self-government as a former mayor and say that it is the treasure of the expectations that you have created beforehand. There is provision for an increase in the revenues of the municipalities by 111 million for 2020, but not by State aid, nor by the retentions claimed by self-government over time, but by a comparison of the data of the square measures of real estate by E9. The citizens who are listening to us, let them prepare their statements and other municipal fees. I wonder if you have a picture of what's going on in the middle family. I wonder how these thousands of unemployed, vulnerable citizens - who self-government supported and supported all these years of the economic crisis and managed through social structures, social grocery stores, social solidarity benefits, rent and electricity and others, to keep them up - will they be able to meet your budgetary requirements? Ladies and gentlemen, society despite the end of the memorials is in a transition difficult position. The welfare state is necessary to maintain until we see results from your forecasts. Suddenly they will not get rich, as will our country from investment. However, for whatever business group we read the numbers, there is no better news. What are farmers expecting from this reduced budget by EUR 50 million, the reduction of EUR 173 per year from 9% to EUR 10,000 per year? However, they had already tax-free for up to EUR 9,500 and, in addition, tax-paying is reduced only 5%. And the cooperative farmers will be punished, since they will not receive any relief, crumbs, in relation to your election announcements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, please, Madam President. What, incidentally, happened to the Prime Minister's announcement of a discount on agricultural oil? Will the office of the Ministry be strengthened with the eighty-eight permanent jobs? Will the production of olive oil, cotton, peaches and other products, whose prices do not cover either the cost of production and are the entire rural world a resurrection? What are the free professionals waiting for? The ECA boom, which will unfortunately be increased in your statements by 20% for 80% of the insured. Pensioners do not also hope in better days, since the 13th pension is abolished. Santa Claus, however, also brings a gift to the employees, a 2 euro increase per month. They may be able to cover the increase in PPC tariffs, the increase in ENVIA due to the adjustment of the objective values, the increase in the municipal fees I mentioned before. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to point out that despite the fact that our country is no longer in comitology, the New Democracy Government with the budget puts the many Greek citizens under comitology. It continues to apply austerity and restrictions for the welfare state and aims at workers, free professionals and generally the middle-class, low-wages, pensioners, young scientists and what is not included in the loved ones, the big businessmen whose interests it defends, having legislated firmly as if there were a final repayment date for its election stamps. The new year does not bring good news for Greek citizens. The implementation of this policy expressed by the budget will further exacerbate social inequalities and reoccurrence many vulnerable citizens into extreme poverty. I call on you to visit the regions, to look at poverty and unemployment, to change the policy of austerity. Because I predict that if we do not, farmers, employees, free professionals, retired people on the streets will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Zachariadis from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the ratification of the country's budget is a very important process. And I would say that at this juncture this debate has a very substantial and symbolic dimension. Essentially, because it is the first budget to lay the foundations for addressing the great lengthy weakness of the Greek economy, namely the growth and investment gap, which has held Greece close to the last few decades between the countries of the European Union in investment, competitiveness and unemployment rates. And symbolic, because in the next few days we have to discuss the first budget of the New Democracy Government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, signalling a radical shift in economic policy towards development. The 2020 budget is a budget which, above all, reflects in real terms the New Democracy Government's programming commitments to the Greek people. Already in a few months, the New Democracy Government has managed to implement what a few years ago could hardly have imagined the relaunch of the Greek economy. We have already managed to fill a budget gap of EUR 396 million, left to us by the previous government, creating additional financial space for the significant reduction in tax rates, increasing public investment and creating a virtuous cycle of economic progress. At the same time, we moved on to a brave permanent reduction in ENPIA. We have significantly improved the framework for tax debt arrangements for citizens, with some six hundred thousand citizens currently making use of the new regulation, while simplifying procedures for the protection of first residence, extending it for another four months. We also abolished the capital controls imposed in 2015 after the irresponsible negotiation of the previous government. We have already done so in a few months: In simple words, we have restored the credibility of the Greek economy. And, of course, all these interventions are only part of the great national effort that we have undertaken. I would like to focus on three main priorities which are also the basis of our government policy on the development of our country. The first element is the acceleration and deepening of the reforms needed to stimulate investment that our economy so much needs. That is why we are moving quickly towards all those structural reforms to liberalise the market, to privatise, to reduce the bureaucracy of licensing procedures, to support start-ups and businesses with financial problems. That is why we are promoting tax relief measures already in place since the summer, we are taking new structural measures aimed at improving the investment environment, and we are creating a new institutional development framework to increase investment opportunities and opportunities. We are well aware that the way to the recovery of the Greek economy is judged by our reform policy, a policy that we know well and we believe deeply as part of it. And this policy is determined to continue to apply as the country's government with firm commitment and consistency. However, the path of reforms is continuous and I must admit that, in order to deal with the timeless investment public, it is not only our strong reformist mood. Critical role - and I come to the second axis of our policy - is the reduction of public debt. And in this direction all the data show that Greece's access to international capital markets is now normalized in recent years. Who could have imagined a few months ago that Greece's public debt is traded at a lower rate than that of the Netherlands and that our country is currently borrowing at a cheaper rate than the United States? In 2020, therefore, the general government debt will be reduced by 6.3 percentage points of GDP compared to 2019. Both the reforms and the reduction of our public debt will gradually contribute to improving competitiveness, attracting investment, boosting employment, reducing unemployment and, ultimately, the great challenge of economic growth, which is the third major issue to which I should like to dwell. Economic development is also passing through large infrastructure projects, which the site needs. And it needs them in particular in areas where the Greek state has not given what it deserves, nor has it exploited them as it should, such as Elias, which I have the honour of representing, with the focus of Ancient Olympia, whose name is radiating around the world and could evolve into a global sports and cultural center. In our homeland we have Olympia Street, which, not only, is not enough until Ancient Olympia, but is not even enough in Elia. Long-term errors have led to this paradox, with a leading and disastrous error in the decision of the SYRIZA Government - ANLE to cancel the tender of the project in 2015, to let four years go lost and eventually before letting the power go into the fragmentation of the project into eight contractors on terms that make it extremely questionable the rapid and timely execution of the project. These choices have not only deprived Elias of economic development, but have deprived the lives of thousands of people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time that the government carried out a major infrastructure project for Western Greece which will lead to economic development and will contribute to road safety. It is time for Ancient Olympia to connect to a modern and safe highway with Olympia Street and Ionia Street and to this one, and there will be no delay. It will be implemented by this government in the fastest and safest way. However, we must not be content with this and we will not be content with it. It is time for Ancient Olympia to connect to a modern and safe road network with Arcadia and Morea, but also with the sea, because Ancient Olympia must be at the centre of development, not only in western Greece and the Peloponnese, but also in our country, and this should be planned and implemented by this government. Ladies and gentlemen, let me add that economic growth also means social development, because the aim of a prosperous economy is a prosperous society, a society that the economic benefits will ensure the social goods that we have to offer as a state to citizens. In this context, the 2006 regular budget provides for increased expenditure in sensitive social areas, such as health and education. In particular, as regards the total resources allocated to hospitals and the EEAS, in 2020 the budget provides for increased expenditure by EUR 289 million, while the EEAS budget provides for increased expenditure by EUR 108 million. However, the social dimension of the budget is also reflected in the area of education, with the provision of an increase of EUR 102 million, partly resulting from the incorporation of the estimates of remuneration, the appointment of four and a half thousand special education staff. We thus make our commitment to support all pupils equally through the educational process. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the 2020 budget demonstrates that the Greek economy is moving at a steady pace on the path of recovery, on the path of the consolidation of rules of equal opportunities, good functioning, transparency and efficiency. The 2020 budget shows that our governance is committed to promoting reforms, attracting investment, ensuring social cohesion. We all have to continue to work in this direction to strengthen the economy, support society and shield the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u279	We have spent ten very difficult years, the years of crisis and of memoranda, and we have to draw critical and useful conclusions and lessons from these ten years. And the question, especially in the budget, is what we want for our country, for the future. We therefore need a sustainable and resilient country, a country that is able to deal with crises, a country that is able to plan and make an account, a country that is resilient to economic issues and geostrategic changes, to the big issues of climate change, to refugees and migration flows, to the technological challenges of the digital age and the fourth industrial revolution, to the crucial issue of demographic change. With regard to the issue of the economy, bankruptcy and memoranda left behind economic and social debris, a society seized and levelled. You won the elections with a flag in the middle class. Is this a budget that meets the demands and issues of the middle class? Is that what you have to tell her? The economy can be better and better for the middle class. But you make specific choices to favour the very strong ones. You have unfortunately lost - and I mean it - at the beginning of this term a huge opportunity to renegotiate the surplus of 3.5% and that is why you are bringing in a surplus of 3.5%. We gave you 2.5% ready and we would really support you, not "Geroon, strong", but honestly, so that the country can lower the primary surpluses. You left it after, because you said that the credibility of the country must be restored. When we left the country's governance, the loan rate was at 2%. Today he's at 1%. Worldwide, the only ones who didn't consider Greece reliable in July 2019 were you. A country that borrows with 1% and 2% is a country that is credible. But how can you in Greece think reliable, when you said the nonsense about a fourth memorandum by 7 July? Is the budget that you want to vote on tomorrow a Memorandum of the Fourth Memorandum, or is it a budget free from memoranda? So you have specific priorities. You want to give much to the very powerful and little or nothing to the middle class and the weak. This is the right one, and this was always in Greece and internationally, so you are not talking about raising the minimum wage, so there is nowhere in your programme about abolishing the solidarity levy, so you silence and try to cover the issue with the increase in PPC tariffs, which is why there is no talk, even in the midsts, of the new insurance that increases contributions. The country, coming out of the memoranda, needs alleviation of inequalities, and you are expanding them. The country may have more to do with many, and we have shown it in much more difficult times. But it is not just what is being discussed within the country. There are major reclassifications. We have Brexit. Mr. Dogmatakis, have you calculated the effect of the fast Brexit which is planned in the Greek economy? What is the effect on exports? What will the impact on GDP be? And can I tell you something? I was really thinking about it last night and I was sad. I say, "Look to see in New Democracy the British right recorded a sweeping victory in the election the other day, and I haven't seen one of the New Democracy say "bravo, my child, congratulations, our brothers in Great Britain won". Do you know why you can't say it? Because, if you say so, you admit that the eruption of the European Union is a policy that is followed by a fundamental responsibility from the right-wing political family, both in Europe and in Great Britain. That is why you cannot go out and only those who write make comments about the fact that our wider political family has had a negative effect there. So you have calculated what consequences this will have for the slowing down of the Eurozone and what consequences will it have for the Greek economy? To go to foreign policy issues that are topical. There really seems to be different, completely different. Look at us in Greek and remember yourself in Prespes. We have tried on the basis of national and patriotic interests to put a class in the wider region. You're the one who ruined the world, you've been rallying, you've lied to the world. And tell me now, almost a year after the Prespecies Agreement, is it better to fly over northern Macedonia greek F-16 or is it better to fly Turkish? I think it's better to fly Greek now that the Turks have this nervousness and aggression. It didn't come out and nobody will come out of SYRIZA to tell you that you're trying to trade the Greek-Turkish with the pensions, as the Chief of Officerial Response said from this here the Stepma said that we exchanged the pension agreement. And we will not question your patriotism as you have done, in order to get us closer and try to create such an atmosphere. But really, why are you celebrating last night? To play the channels? Is sanctions for Greece yes or no, whether we are SYRIZA, New Democracy or anything? Did we do it, yes or no? Mr. Dendias said this morning we shouldn't push. Look at it all, but I think the last thing you can ask for is at the end not to talk. We will therefore support the national effort and the law of the country. I am going to the crucial issue of climate change and I am going to close with it. It's the big challenge. All the infrastructure we have today, the operation of the agricultural sector, tourism, energy costs, transport change everything. Does the country have a plan in particular in every area of transition to the new era? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now you'll tell me there's this plan. When the Secretary of the United Nations confesss in his statements to the great disappointment of the failure and the unsatisfactory outcome of the agreed in Madrid, then I think we should also be more serious about these issues both at the level of society and at the level of the economy. Last issue is the refugee - immigration. You'll tell me what it has to do with the budget. It's all about the budget. You said that this governance would be judged within the first half of the year on how it would have done it in this area. Mr. Voridis said it, I didn't say it. Well, obviously the first semester you've done a little more hairy. We and on this issue do not make you irresponsible and disastrous opposition, as you have done to us. So tell us how long it takes to show the results your policy wants? Because - and I'm closing with it - what you've been trying to do for six months is hide the problem. You're trying to hide it from your mayors, from your districts, from your voters and from society. But that's not the problem for the country. The problem for the country is the management of a top national and European issue. And in that, if you want, we're available to pressure together, to help. With these considerations, therefore, I am voting against this budget because it is a budget which cannot meet the requirements of the vast majority of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u280	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u281	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u283	And for less possible. But since the previous speaker has repeatedly referred to me, I should like to reply very briefly. Firstly, for the obligations we have, I will remind you that because of the Tsipras government we have gained an obligation for primary surpluses by 2060 and public property in the excess with the commitments that you very well know of, by 2114, if I remember. That's not to forget. Now, how do you want to name this, memorial, non-memorandum, walk in the park, say whatever you want. The reality is that. Secondly, in Britain, if you have noticed, the very closest to you, Mr Corbin, was overwhelmingly defeated. The British Labour Party has had such defeat since 1935. Instead of worrying about it, then, you talk about the conservative party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u284	Does Brexit express you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u285	Let me finish. I would remind you that the Conservative Party does not belong to the political family in the European Parliament in which the New Democracy belongs, nor to the political family in which the ALDE belonged. I have had a good time there at some point. He's another political family. Now if you don't know that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u286	Mr Mendononi, Minister for Culture, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u287	Madam President, I would like to have the floor for a minute after the Minister for Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 July in the programme statements we said that we should map the situation that we received, evaluate and prioritise needs. In the first half of the year, it has been shown that we need realistic public policies in general for culture, to talk about the Ministry of Culture, so that we can win the lost time, or if you want the set-aside period for the last five years. The Ministry of Culture since his birth had a budget of less than his needs, if you like. I'd say he's still on condition. The Ministry of Culture in the last few years at least, since 1997, in addition to the regular budget and the public investment programme on its national side, has always been particularly successful in the integration of projects into the co-financed programmes and a very good performance in the absorption of co-financed resources. In this way it was clear that it could complement any deficit budget from national resources. This originally concerned cultural heritage. Since 2010 it has also been about modern culture as the co-financed programmes covered such needs. He also filled out his budget with programming contracts, sponsorships and revenues from the Archaeological Resources Fund. So let us go where we find the situation in the main tool of the Ministry of Culture in the current NSRF. What we found would be a very loose approach to projects from the previous government. I will not talk about the inclusion of a few or a lot of projects. Clearly, a lot more could have been joined. Let's say that this was an option despite the fact that both the needs in the monumental stock and in modern culture were and remain great. I'll talk about the rates of absorption. In any case, the rates of absorption in the NRP are generally lower than they should be. In the Ministry of Culture things are much more unpleasant, as we are at around 10%, that is, much below the average. That's not all. It is that the projects that were included in most cases were integrated with deficits because they had to be met more. A project with a deficit budget is obviously unable to complete and serve the needs of the programme itself, to be operational. What we have done - and we are doing - is to reverse this situation. Already with the regions, we have made a systematic programme, not only for the integration of new projects, but also for additional funding, so that the projects which you have included are not able to complete and to be operational. Wherever we have gone and wherever we have cooperated, cooperation at the level of the regions is extremely important. It is a programme which we will do in all thirteen regions and will be completed by February. The regional authorities' response - and I thank them for this step - is extremely important. But that is an example. I will not talk about investment where cultural heritage has worked. A characteristic example is the Greek. Let us not forget that the Greek was solved by two unanimous decisions of the Central Archaeological Council and the Central Council of Modern Monuments, that is, persons who ex officio are in the councils had no problem accepting that the ones we proposed were in the right direction of protecting the cultural stock and its decommissioning investment. Let me give another example of the projects, which were classified as large and contagious projects by the EESC concerning East Attica, which are related to fines, which the country pays after its condemnation by the European Court of Justice because of a long problem of the non-compliance of certain settlements in Eastern Attica: for more than ten months the funds put forward, the projects were not progressing, because the Ministry of Culture with the region and the EESC could not agree on how to carry out the projects, whether it would do the archaeological work by contract or whether it would do so with an autholicity. At the moment the works have been detached, the necessary memos have been signed and they are progressing properly. I say this as a small example. About the Archaeological Resources Fund: The refreshments are closed. Not even the law passed by the Ministry of Culture in 2019, not even this law was implemented. Today, next Wednesday on the 17th of the month, the development plan of the refreshments will be approved under the law by the Central Archaeological Council and at least by the new tourist season, closed refreshments will be open. You're gonna tell me, what does refreshments have to do with the budget? Apparently, they have, because they produce revenue, they produce good services, they bring greater stay and therefore, consumption within archaeological sites and museums. About small shops: already early next year, we will bring in a law on warehouses so that sellers can fill products and not just showrooms. I mention a few examples: The major works, the emblematic works, such as the Gallery. When someone passes through the Gallery, it clearly sees the speed with which the work is evolving, a work that was uncoordinated, a work that was not even secured the resources it should have. The resources were provided by the national resources of the Ministry of Culture and by the regional programme the project proceeded to launch on 25 March 2021. About the Museum of Contemporary Art: It is a bridge of Arta that has to stop. As we were committed to the Museum of Contemporary Art, it will work at the end of February 2020. Another example of non-coordination is the National Gallery. It was incomprehensible for the Ministry of Culture to coordinate its services with third parties on simple, elementary things. About Tatoi. Already by the end of the year, we will have a contractor for the final study of the palace building. Sponsored in the next few days - probably by the end of this year - the feasibility study for the entire projection of the estate, because the budget of the Ministry of Culture must also be supplemented by sponsorships. All those who disseminate that sponsorships are supposed to lead to the privatization of cultural heritage, all they need to think about is the idealism that possesses them. Worldwide, donors cover a major part of cultural activities and projects. All over the world volunteering along with sponsorship covers basic economic disadvantages in the cultural sector. I would like to mention one example: in the United Kingdom, volunteering one year in large museums and in large cultural infrastructures is equivalent to about £1600 000.000. Volunteerism, obviously, does not replace truly paid work. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I won't get into the situation where the great archaeological sites were found. A characteristic example is the Acropolis with the famous elevator. The elevator, which is already entrusted with the courtesy of the Onassis Foundation, will be able to operate and serve the next tourist season. The great program at the National Archaeological Museum is being developed according to the timetable and thanks to the sponsorship of the Foundation "Stavros Niarchor" at the end of January, the feasibility study is being handed over to create the super-local pole between the National Museum, the Metsovio Polytechnics and the Acropolis with the special distinctive marking on the square. I shall end with two things: there has been no prediction and no preparation at all for either an anniversary of two and a half thousand years since the Battle of Salamis and the Hoods or for 2021. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I will end in a minute. Both of them have now entered a developmental orbit. Tomorrow we will present the programme of the Ministry of Culture and the Committee and the Ministry of Interior at a special press conference. I'm closing up with climate change. A conference on climate change was organised in Athens in June 2019. Precisely, SYRIZA's gentlemen, because we absolutely believe that this is the big issue that will concern us in the next few years, the Ministry of Culture presented the initiative of the Greek Government on the effects of climate change on the cultural heritage of the United Nations and three days ago in Spain. There things were not only accepted, but the Greek Government, together with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture, took the congratulations of both the United Nations and UNESCO. Finally, culture is evidently needed resources. Culture at the same time produces and creates resources for the local and national economy. Culture creates resources for culture itself. We have talked about self-financing of cultural actions, and that is our objective. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget needs to be voted on because it is on the right development dimension, on the right development path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Dogacakis, Mr. Zachariadis did very well and did not refer to the UK Labour Party. SYRIZA has no business with the UK Labour Party. Because I remember the course of this party on the left, I would like to remind you how hostile and warring they were in the rule of Tony Blair, who was the least negative leader of Europe's leaders who did not want Cyprus to join the European Union. They were struggling against him. Of course, that prime minister also ended with the involvement of workers through Tony Blair in the Iraqi war. Because we have seen him for years, Corbin, we can tell you, by entering this debate and closing with it, that Corbin is the absolute clear example of what a leader is suffering from when he has no clear line. He was the leader of the workers, who in Brexit didn't understand what he wanted. When you are away from the great dilemmas of a people, then you deserve the defeat that Corbin suffered and led to resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u291	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Cretan from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would like to address the Minister. We in Lakonia expect the procedural loose ends between the Ministry and the Municipality of Sparta to begin the renovation of the second oldest museum in Greece, in the newest history of Greece, with the help of of of course the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, so that we can finally visit the city of Sparta. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the crisis, we have been discussing a budget in an environment of budgetary stability. It is a real budget, which aims to lead to gradual and surely development. It is an optimism, without getting away from realism. It seeks a balance between economic efficiency and social justice. It incorporates initiatives to support both supply and demand in the economy. It is a budget geared to strengthening the development process by attracting investment. It is a budget that signals that the Greek economy returns to normality. We are at an important crossroads, on the difficult road that leads our country to exit the crisis. The sacrifices of the Greeks are heavy and often unfair that have made this budgetary stabilisation possible. Greek citizens have long exceeded their limits and tolerances. Nevertheless, they closed their ears to populism, such as Odysseus to Sirenes, and did not re-elect the recipes of destruction because they tried the easy way of promises twice in the past. One with the "liquids" and one with the tear of the memorials. Finally, as we have all seen, there was no money, no sketching of the memorials. All we have seen was 100 billion more debts for the Greek people and various 'his' to go to the public debate. Personal ideas since 2009 brought the country twice to the brink of destruction. And remember that it was New Democracy in 2012 and in the summer of 2015 that put back on irresponsibility and populism. All Greeks now know that, who have chosen this government, just to get the country out of the crisis as quickly as possible, at the least possible social cost, without jeopardising its European orientation, our national laws and putting it back at the core of developments. In this treaty, the question remains consistently the same as at the beginning of the crisis. The citizens demand from everyone who has a public role in three clear things. First, effectiveness. Political and individual actions, but much more painful sacrifices are taking place. And that's something that's already seen. Whatever we promised, we are electorally doing so. Second, justice. Our government's policies are governed by social justice. All equals the laws and equal distribution of whatever burdens society is called upon to bear. Thirdly, respect for the institutions. In particular, at this critical juncture, we must all consolidate our democracy on the institutions that are firmly established, such as justice, the Church and our Armed Forces. The 2020 budget marks the return of our country to the future, as it integrates all the reforms that we have adopted. It is the first budget, which not only imposes additional restrictive measures, but reduces burdens on households and businesses. It provides for a significant increase in GDP from 2.2% recorded according to ELSTAT’s recent figures in the first nine months of 2019 to 2.8% of 2020. It thus leads Greece's GDP after many years close to EUR 200 billion. In other words, national income increases compared to this year by some EUR 7 billion or by around EUR 1,600 per household. This budget shows that prosperity for everyone does not come on its own. A plan, a lot of work and consistency are needed, which create expectations of realistic optimism. The government and the financial staff are sending it a clear message to all citizens. Taxes are being reduced that relieve all households and businesses without disrupting the country's budgetary discipline. The available budget area is mainly used for the benefit of the lowest income groups and the middle class. We are reducing the HPAI, reducing the tax on natural persons for the lowest incomes, reducing taxation for all legal persons, thus for small and medium-sized enterprises. We're reducing insurance contributions for workers. We are establishing a low tax rate for agricultural cooperative schemes. We provide tax incentives for companies to distribute shares to employees, reduce VAT on infants, grant benefits for every child born from the new year, relieve all SMEs with a disability rate of more than 80%. All this improves the public's available income, in particular, of the middle-class in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget shows that the country's economy has positive dynamics, a dynamic that is stabilised and improved. We know that magical recipes for definitive solutions do not exist. We know that uncertainties still exist for all of us. We know that the dangers are escalating. I believe, however, that we all understand that the aim of the whole country's commitment to the European and global scene is to impose social and political shocks, creative compositions, national plan and hard work on everyone. It requires patriotic conscience, wisdom, consensus and realism. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to speak on the 2020 budget for the area of culture and to note that there is, unfortunately, unpleasant news about culture in this budget. There are problems in quantitative and qualitative parameters. Ladies and gentlemen, for culture you are giving less of what the SYRIZA government has given in previous years. You are budgeting for 2020 for the Ministry of Culture 335.200,000 euros. SYRIZA in 2019 had budgeted 350 million. It had budgeted, that is, 14,800,000 more. But, a year ago, in 2018, and that's where he had budgeted more than the current budget you're budgeting. In 2018 we had 339 million. From 2018 to 2019, the amount had been raised by EUR 10,500,000. You in 2020 go the budget down and from 2018 to SYRIZA. A strong question arises from the fact that under subcode 001 of code 1021 700 million of regular funding and 19 million of co-financed funds from the public investment programme for the - as you say - the effective coordination of the Ministry of Culture. Really, what does that mean? Where will this money be directed? What does it mean to coordinate the effective coordination of the Ministry of Culture? What's behind this This is an unclear and incomprehensible budget which does not enlighten us where, how many and whom the money will go. You see, our experience with the so-called sinful fund of the trade unions of the Ministry of Culture who have been prosecuted by the Prosecutor of corruption for six felonies is rightly making us reluctant, since this performance coordination of the Ministry of Culture, which is, in fact, 69,804.007 euros, costs more than the amount available for the arts and letters that are 65,947,151 euros. I mean, it's 3,856,000 less. What are you going to fit into this strange title? What codes are you gonna put over there? But the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is not just figures. It's also a tool for society. And in this development - God should make him - a budget in terms of culture does not result from the division of economic sizes at least from the slightest reference to the great fronts of culture, to the great landscape that concerns tomorrow's cultural good, which is an inalienable right of the Greek people. Your cultural policy has not yet revealed any plan. This mapping we have heard before is nothing more than a miserable, sadly re-insurgent approach to what the SYRIZA Government has achieved and built in this area in difficult times. Since the revocation of the public declaration of the positions of artistic directors in the state scenes planned by SYRIZA and the appointment of persons of the personal selection of the political leadership of the Ministry to your obsessed belief in the excavations of the tumulus on the hill Kastas, where with your haste to include the promotion of the project in the success story of Mr. Samaras, you compromised the work using heavy vehicles that affected the stability of the monument. Not to talk about your stubbornness about cutting and storing antiquities at Venizelos Station in the metro of Thessaloniki, which in practice proved to be unnecessari. During the rule of SYRIZA and the antiquities were there and the work went on. You raise the cost with this obsession to return to this view of 2014 and delay the delivery. And less money is being given to the budget and you are burdening it more. Well done. All of this with the mobs like the Prime Minister's report on lending the Parthenon sculptures that you know very well that this means recognizing British property on our precious heritage. What I said before, ladies and gentlemen, is a small sample only of the quality of your cultural policy. But we designed and achieved a lot in times of difficult economics, as I said. And so now we are planning and insisting on programmatic cultural axes. We will insist on designing for the great landscape for all Greeks. Inspire a daily culture that puts violence, intolerance, sexism, introvertibility, xenophobia. To move forward the culture that concerns young people, children and individual populations and social groups in particular. We need a Ministry of Culture that respects the supervisory bodies and the workers in these agencies and does not exercise preventive censorship, for example, as you have attempted in your communication. A Ministry of Culture, which will not only be dealt with but will be dealt with in an inclusive manner with all Greeks. We need a Ministry of Culture that will take care of all new creators by creating institutional tools. Not only do some young people care to show this interest in coming out of obligation toward many. Recent example? Five hundred scientists are coming from abroad. Wonderful. Four thousand scientists are fired, children with postgraduate doctorates from the OAED program. Bring in good, five hundred, push out four thousand. Brilliant. Well done. We need as a country and as a society, therefore, from a culture that will facilitate creators and care for the excerptors of art. A culture that will include all Greeks. But your policy so far and with the elements of the budget that you have brought us, it is clear that you are keeping us a few people's culture for a few, a culture which the few of you will get a lot and many of you will get from a few to nothing. As in all other areas, in work, in education, in social welfare, in health, in the agricultural sector, that is to say in our own lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has asked for the floor. You have the floor for two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously the honourable Member did not read the text of the budget because if he had read it, he would have seen that the special body 501, which concerns self-employed units and others and the increased budget he sees is a consequence of Law 4622/2019 for the final state. And that's why? The Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, the Directorate-General for Administrative and Electronic Governance is directly subject to the Minister and not to the Secretary-General. In particular, the Directorate-General for Economic Support appears at higher costs because in this code there is all the material for the procurement address for the entire Ministry's accounts. So that is justifiable, Mr Skourico, but unfortunately you cannot escape the obsessions and fears of the Solidarity Fund. Let me inform you that the liquidation procedure is exactly in the time that we have told you. I won't say anything about the photographic notices. I will conclude by saying that the Ministry's budget is indeed reduced by 14 million, but they are considerably less than what SYRIZA did not absorb from the regular budget for public investment during your governance period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u297	Mrs Sukoulis - Vilialis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to place ourselves on the first budget presented by our Government. It is a budget that allows us for the first time to be realistically optimistic that our country is walking firmly on the path of economic and social recovery. But sovereign, and this is particularly important to us, with this budget we establish the prerequisites for social confidence between our Greek society and our government. Even our most skeptical and skeptical critic cannot overlook the spectacular change in the index of economic confidence since we took over the country's fates. The Greek people trust us. And that, of course, didn't happen by accident. It was because, from the start, and from the outset, we identified in good time the areas that we had to intervene in the long term and in the short term so that we could unblock the country from the economic stagnation nets which, unfortunately, you have led it. It is not possible to understand that you have created a disinvestment environment, an environment of low overall productivity. The investment gap in particular in foreign investments in combination with overtaxation, including natural and legal persons, has denounced the income available so that the economic cycle cannot be reheated. Let's go to the budget. The targeting and philosophy of the budget is crystallised. The mixture of economic policy is clear. We want to strengthen the creation and attraction of new wealth in the country, so that we can create new quality jobs for all, in order to increase the available income for all, especially protecting vulnerable social groups, not only to escape the threshold of tolerance and poverty, but to become active and creative. This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in substance. We are not seeking to exploit as supposedly socially sensitive privileged and dependent political audiences. We want to create socially and economically independent and thinking citizens with the right to critical choice in every area of social, economic and political life. In order to make this necessary conversion of the Greek economy, we have proceeded and move on to structural changes, essentially interfering with the economic model of the country. We are bravely doing to defend the public interest. The Multinomous Project "Investing in Greece" has shaped a new pro-investment environment by removing bureaucratic claws, but also by motivating the attraction of investments, so that by 2020 gross fixed capital investments are raised to 13.1% of GDP from 11.6% in the first half of 2019. With the tax bill, and not only, we are trying to increase the public's available income by reducing the income tax for natural persons, but also the taxation for businesses, whether they are small, whether they are medium, or large. We are interested in making them sustainable. It is therefore estimated that the increase in employment by 1.8% per annum is estimated. Reducing unemployment as a percentage of the workforce and double the rate of increase in average wages will lead to growth and private consumption of 1.8% compared with 2019. Let's go to social intervention too. Of course, they did not stop, as our political opponents were at risk in the run-up to the election. It has been heard many times in the Chamber, but I cannot repeat it myself. You raised 11.4 billion as a surplus by removing liquidity from the market and the citizens with the sole aim of sharing the critical moment of land and water to vote for them with old-fashioned terrain. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, despite your opposite predictions, we have reduced HISFIA, reduced workers' insurance contributions, increased the heating allowance, paid social dividends, provided a new framework for regulating citizens' debts to the taxes, banks and funds and we are ready with the new year to provide a 2,000 euro allowance for every child born. And all this in just five months of government. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about credibility, because credibility is not characterised either by me or by Mr Zachariadis. International markets reward the credibility and responsibility of our government's action, both with the yields of Greek bonds and the successive upgrades of investment houses. And you know exactly what that means. We are creating the conditions to achieve a great goal: to reduce the high primary surpluses. The fact that I think we all recognise that it can function proliferationally in the development of the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government and all of us who make up the New Democracy Parliamentary Group are sure that we have the necessary political understanding that there is still a lot to be done to free up the productive potential of our country. We don't live in delusion. We are well aware that there are our fellow citizens who are still suffering from the perpetrators of the crisis, who have not been able to live with dignity again. And I want to send them a clear message. That it is our responsibility to lead them back to the path of prosperity and progress. That responsibility, we've taken it. With consistent, reliable, hard work and targeting, we are creating and defending the modern ideal of a new patriotism that wants the country economically strong, with solid social cohesion, but also, yes, with steel dissuasive power towards anyone trying to approve its sovereign rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we have opened a window of hope in Greek society, a window that looks at tomorrow with greater optimism than yesterday and that is an important step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, my colleague. With Mrs Sukoulis - Viliali, today's debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-15-S1-commons.u300	With the consent of the House at 22.15 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Monday 16 December 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2020’.
