ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Discussion and vote on the proposal by the Prime Minister to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The speaker of SYRIZA, Ilias Camatoros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, few but chosen in the Chamber. There is a lot of talk since yesterday's debate in plenary. Everyone says it dropped the level of debate in the House. I'm saying the level of Officership seemed to be low yesterday. The speech of the Prime Minister in his introduction was purely political. He referred to all the issues and what happened and what was done about the SYRIZA programme for the next period and about the measures that we take and explained that they are not permanent and opportunistic or electoral. Others are those who are trying to transfer the conversation to a gossip level. Listening yesterday to the Chief of Officer County was like reading a few small comments of gossip in various newspapers, what we call parapolitical and other. Even life style I could say. In any case, I do not want to underestimate this move of the Chief of Staff. It certainly wants to shift the debate, because it cannot be opposed to the economic field and, more generally, political. Because he cannot clearly say his programme, as the Prime Minister has said, because he will be exposed. However, I do not want to underestimate as naive the attempt to shift the debate to gossip and personal. It is a tactic that in other countries it is caught and disseminated very quickly, particularly with new technologies and we know that they are trying to influence peoples, peoples, peoples to vote on these features rather than politically. So let's not underestimate it, too. Of course, when the other accuses you and you are obliged to answer, you are necessarily playing in this field that is not good for us at all. I would see it as follows: Look, over the years, during the decades of the modern history of our country, in the consciousness of the people, the Left has become the force that fights for justice, equality and solidarity. This has been done through its struggles on all the issues of our country lately in its modern history. Throughout this process, those who had the power, the so-called winners, and after the Civil War, took care either by crackdown or by the para-state organizations to face up to the phenomenon or by various ideologies that they will never govern, what they say is impossible, they are out of place and time, that is, their power from the left struggles were not threatened. But when the Left put a question of power and took the government, then things changed. Then the motto began: 'For a short time it is, they will be gone'. When this was not done, they said: "They are liars, because others were saying and others did." Of course they deliberately ignore or silence what happened. And the Prime Minister said it yesterday. We've discussed this many times. He entered the people's crisis in September 2015 and the SYRIZA Government, with the ANELs then, regained the people's confidence. Now they have seen that, since the four-year period has run out and the left-hand parentheses have become the only one in the last four years, all they have to resort to is: “All the same. They're like us, too. They're not left-wing. Here, look. They do what we did." That's a very serious argument. First of all, this vindicates what I said at the beginning: the moral hegemony of the left. And as much as they want to hurt her, even at the gossip level, they can't do it, because of course they can't offset all their course and politics and their personal life with the struggles, sacrifices and the spirit of the Left over the years. But allow me to compare the fact that we are not all the same politicians to do it by focusing on an issue that I also have a responsibility: islands. How did they confront islandity before our own government? We had a VAT rate reduced and another one, two metres. From that point on, when we took over, we found a Secretariat for Island Policy, which was concerned only with water transport with water supply, how to transport water to the islands. That was the island policy. When we took over, we upgraded the Secretariat and founded a Ministry of Island Policy. Right now there's no island that's in trouble with water. There's been a desalination in all the islands. The problem of desalination has been solved. But they - and here look at the spirit - preferred to have the aqueducts to speculate on and to stay the islands without water for quite a long time. When we said that the transport equivalent must be applied to remove this inequality of distances and exclusion of the islands, they said that this is not because there is a need for much money and it is impossible. In fact, when he entered the issue of conservation or not of VAT rates on the islands, they said 'we do not want'. It was said by both the District Governors and the North and the South Aegean... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done soon. Please, your tolerance, Mr President. They said: 'We do not want the transport equivalent. Leave us the VAT and we don't need the transport equivalent because they're crumbs." We have, of course, said - and we say - that the equivalent of transport will also make the reduced rates of VAT on time and when we can return. For the time being, they are valid and remain. And the reduced rates in the five islands are not going to increase. The transport equivalent and applied and no one can believe that it has such results, can't believe that passengers are transported with a discount of more than 50%, the goods over 50%. Even now, in the last thirty-three islands, we have a reduction in the price of fuel on the islands, which no one dared not only to do but also to imagine it. It's about to happen in the planes. It has been voted, but it has not yet been implemented. The corresponding amount will be deducted from the flight tickets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Kamaterre, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u4	You're always very strict with me. I shall conclude, Mr President. In any case, allow me one more minute for the island policy. This shows the difference not just of management but of politics, how one sees inequality and how one tries to cover them. Because of time, I cannot talk about education in the small islands. For example, I will mention Agathonisi, who has two children in the nursery, one in primary school, one in high school, two in high school and has seven to eight teachers and teachers, something he did not have before. Schools in the remote islands - Kassos, Kastelorizo, Nissyros - have in time their teachers and teachers who have not had them so far, doctors, who go to the islands and did not exist. Not that we've solved the problems. There's still too much. The Prime Minister said so, that we have not been back in 2009 and we are still on the way, but we are on a reverse path. We're on a recovery course. No one can question this as much as the opposition is trying to change it. So we're not the same. We don't have the same schedule. They see the citizen as an enemy and an operating organ for their culture and authority. That's how they shut down the offices on the islands. So the hospitals did one. We see citizens as our human beings for a fairer society. Power as a positive discrimination is seen by us in replacing injustices. This is judged in the October elections, ladies and gentlemen. But that is now judged in the European elections. Our guarantee is the spirit, the advantage of the Left, which we preserve. And we apologise to the people. We're not apologizing to them. Because the people judge us and not those who consider themselves to have their property to cover and serve their crimes. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u5	Me, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers attendants from the 2nd General School of Heraklion Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Rabbit has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. There was a quartz which started yesterday, when elections are coming, even the European elections now. And we saw the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officer's Response launching uproots to each other, making any incidents here. Imagine the Golden Dawn had said that or had participated in anything like this. They'd have been committees, they'd have cut wages, expelled us out of the halls. Now that the constitutional arch does, however, that's nothing. It is within the framework of the democratic dialogue in which you are all. And of course, you're doing very well and you're not afraid of each other, and you don't pay attention to each other's words, because you know that you're just saying that. There is nothing to be done on the substance. But it is terrible that the hypocrisy that has to do with the fact that it is heard from the New Democracy side that the Golden Dawn is confronted with SYRIZA and from the side of SYRIZA that the Golden Dawn tells them with the New Democracy. Of course, you know very well that we don't see each of you. We don't want any contact with any of you. We're only talking to the Greek people. But let's see here two - three things about who's sympathetic to who. Why is it not possible that the parties of the so-called constitutional arch, who have made them tiles and found them fine, have voted together for the mosque and have voted together for the third memorial, when the New Democracy was here with its Chief then Meimarakis and begged - in the 15th of August of 2015, it was SYRIZA "go a measure of whatever that is, a memorandum, to vote at last for the good of Greece". And we were coming ferro-binding through the price cells at the time, that the Samara regime - Twelves - Athanasios were set up - and they will prove all of this, they have already been proven - and we were shouting that there should naturally not be any Memorandum to go through. And not to forget that all these measures have been passed together, when you passed the first, second and third Memorandums, hug. Don't tell each other today why they're bringing these measures. The measures you have all voted on together. So let go of fairy tales and lies. Also, not to say about the agreement, treason, of the Prespecies that the New Democracy would be requesting that SYRIZA pass it in order not to charge it, or what its Chief is now saying, that while the agreement is not at all good, and while the New Democracy does not agree, if it becomes a government will respect it. But how is that possible? That's how much you're mocking us? It's an agreement that you don't respect, it's an agreement that isn't good, but you'll keep up with it. This is the story of the patriots of the New Democracy. And don't forget, we've been talking about a New Democracy patriot who has sold our country forty-five years - patriots are always selling it - and we see it in the Eurovoc to have Cairides, who has made scary statements at the expense of the country and the nation, for people who believe it all, of course. None of the New Democracy dared to react. No one has gone out, nor a executive nor a Member of Parliament, to say that these words are devious and that Cairides should not be on the Eurovoc of the New Democracy. But not only will it be, but a line has been given to be voted on because it is chosen from above. It will also be voted on and passed to the European Parliament. So the New Democracy of patriots let her mouth shut up and not speak, because she has no right to speak. Let's talk about the constitutional arch, about the rest of the procedure that exists, that you're a little parade. Here is the President of this House to deny me. If there was independent Greek justice, and if the Greek Parliament did well to do its job, in fact, and respected the democracy and rights of everyone, a document from the Prosecutor's office has come to which she is asked to be given the opportunity to investigate the involvement of Samaras in the scandal of the detention of the Chief and the MPs of the Golden Dawn. This document is available in the Greek Parliament and requests the Prosecutor to deal with the matter. However, the Greek Parliament has hidden this document and does not allow it to come to the public, to come forward and to follow the procedures. And the President of Parliament is here, and he hears what I'm saying right now. So the parade of the so-called constitutional arch, which has been ridiculing for so many years and has exploited our country must not dare to speak. That's all we need to make it clear. Now, with regard to the budgetary measures that SYRIZA says to bring in to favour the world and to support all of this, that's to laugh. You can't have taken hundreds of five things, give each other back two and tell him "glorify me" already. Let us not forget that for these things, a decision has been made by the Council of State of Greece, as well as by administrative prototypes, which say that it is illegal to cut wages, pensions and everything else. It is illegal to say the S.E., the Greek justice, which the Greek Parliament does not listen to where it is not in its interest. And so it comes today, instead of giving about 3 billion, which has been said to be these measures, this money stolen from Greek citizens, to give them a tenth-third pension, which is not a pension on the substance, but is a small EUR 200-300 bonus - how much will you give? - and you have a demand from the Greeks that you mock them with mirrors and beads. So you've learned to do all these years, that's what I think will be over now. Sunday short celebration, May 26th here we will be. Golden Dawn will get very large percentages again, will represent Greece and the European Parliament, as it does for so many years, and the "Greek" within introductory Parliament and the local and self-government elections that are coming. I will end by saying that we are seeing it start again - and it has never been over - a terrible new round of Turkish challenges, with which you Turks are rejoicing, with the Turks with whom you have never dared to put them in place, where they should be, where they should not dare to speak, and I see that at this moment they are claiming and creating again in the Aegean and south of Cyprus and everywhere, to raise issues once again. Here again, therefore, for the partners in the New Democracy and SYRIZA that about a month and a half ago there was a resolution in the European Parliament, which said Turkey's talks and procedures should be stopped in the European Union. Absolutely right, one of the few right things that the European Parliament has done in favour of Greece. And who did not vote in favour of this? I've said it another time, but I'll say it again on the occasion of what's going on. Members of SYRIZA and New Democracy have not voted in favour. In fact, Culloglou, Member of the European Parliament SYRIZA, congratulated Spyraki, the New Democracy MEP for this fact. These are embarrassing things about our country. All the rest of Europe says that Turks are committing crimes, orgy, at the expense of Greece and at the expense of Cyprus and the only ones who do not admit it are Greek MEPs. So that is one reason why we have to go through the European Parliament, because these things are not going to happen, and as far as all the rest are concerned, one is the enemy of all this gross and false democracy, which you have imposed forty-five years. The enemy is called "nationalist factor", the enemy is Golden Dawn, this enemy will continue to be against you until we are done with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u7	It's a fact, the enemy of democracy one is, he's described it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u8	Nazism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u9	Yeah. He described him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u11	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u12	I am not commenting on what has been said, but I just want to make a position on the national issue that has been raised, so that there is no misconception in Greek society. Mr President, the permanent position of Greek foreign policy is the continuation of the accession negotiations or, in any case, Turkey's continued involvement. This is the position of the Republic of Cyprus. The Greek position follows the position of the Republic of Cyprus on this matter. Therefore, this is the national attitude, so that there is no misinterpretation and any false patriotism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u13	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u14	Well, Mr. Circus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, in January 2015, the Greek people gave us the mandate to take our homeland out of the monuments and to ensure decent living conditions for the citizens, and that is what we did. Because there is no doubt that the dignity of the Greek people in the years of the crisis has been severely affected by the name of an extremist neoliberal policy decided by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, with the full consent and encouragement of the International Monetary Fund and the technocrats of Europe of the few. This dignity is regained - a step by the Greek people with the rule of SYRIZA. Within four years of governance we have, with determination and morality, given struggles to restore injustices and put an end to past practices that had plunged society into crisis and created a social plundering regime. When SYRIZA took over governance, he received a well-established state mechanism, with downgraded public health and education, with pensions having accepted successive cuts of up to 50% and a total of 45 billion euros, insurance funds with a deficit of 1,1 billion euros and 400,000 unpaid pensions and one-off pensions. In the early years of the crisis and the memoranda, 25% of the country's GDP had been lost. Unemployment was 27% and in young people this rate has been launched. We fought to rebuild the Greek economy on new, solid foundations, with priority the needs of the social majority, the workers and all those who have remained completely unprotected during the crisis. Unemployment has fallen by eight points, from 26 to 18%, and is steadily decreasing by 2% per year. We managed to drive the country out of the memorandum regime and the committee, recovering the confidence and stability of the Greek economy, to regulate the public debt, making it sustainable, creating the conditions for its smooth refinancing. The motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy is therefore the last against the Minister of Health, and it is also the last act of diversion from the New Democracy, which shows the extent of the confusion and panic that holds it. At the time when the Prime Minister announces measures to support the social majority, Mr Mitsotakis is trying to change the agenda and personalise political controversy. But the problem of the New Democracy is that SYRIZA did it where everyone else failed. The problem of the New Democracy is that Alexis Tsipras managed to show his way out of unjust fiscal austerity and political coercion, giving a message to all the peoples of Europe that neoliberalism and austerity are not a one-way street. And it is the last act of distraction before the Greek people are exposed to the programmatic failure and also the threatening positions of the New Democracy towards society. Because ultimately what is bothering the New Democracy is the fact that the government has succeeded and now it can look into society, taking positive measures, which have a direct impact on the lives of the citizens. With the budgetary space we now need, we voted for a reduction in insurance contributions for two hundred and fifty thousand unemployees, the reduction of HPAI to 50% for almost 1.2 million low estates, and 30% medium-sized property, the rental subsidy of up to 200 euros a month for at least three hundred thousand families with income criteria. The minimum wage, cut by law of the PASOK-New Republic in 2012, and the unacceptable subsistence salary of EUR 510 for young people is now in the past. The government has increased the minimum wage and moved on with the abolition of the subordinate, and will now be voted on and the insurance contribution for young people from 2020 to twenty-five years will be reduced by 80% and 25%, and young people from twenty-nine to twenty-nine years, reducing the insurance contributions for freelance professionals and farmers by 33%. We have secured access to public health for two and a half million of our fellow citizens, uninsured. What the Prime Minister has committed to the IGC has become an act, and that is what annoys the New Democracy and the rest of the opposition, because all the commitments made by the Prime Minister have been legislated, one by one, and the same will be done with what the Prime Minister announced yesterday. The vote of confidence in the government, therefore, has meant a direct application since 2019 of the reduction in VAT on the focus from 24% to 13%, the transfer of all food from 24% to 13%, the reduction of energy VAT for domestic consumers and businesses from 13% to 6%. Of course, it means the immediate payment of the thirteenth pension. A vote of confidence in Alexis Tsipras' relief and breath package. Recognising the burden on households over the past few years and bearing in mind the degrees of freedom of movement in the new period, after the end of the programmes, we are planning any action that can facilitate citizens. Such an intervention is the hundred and twenty instalments for debts to insurance funds and the tax already being discussed in this House and will solve the hands of many of our fellow citizens, especially those who cannot receive their pensions, due to debts to public bodies. Of course, the Prime Minister's commitment to not reducing duty remains in force. We must, however, remember what this government has done to remove injustices and strengthen lower incomes and pensioners. He gave a social dividend of 617m euros in 2016 to one and a half million pensioners, when, in fact, New Democracy called on the government for this initiative and voted against it in the House, talking about crumbs. He also gave social dividends in 2017, about 750m euros. He gave social dividends and in 2018, about 800m euros in almost a million four hundred thousand households. He gave the retrospectives last December of EUR 1 billion to beneficiaries. It cancelled the pension cut for 2019, which New Democracy committed itself to implementing, and which, in fact, called for change by Europeans, did not retreat to the effort of the Government not to implement the measure. So the New Democracy has the courage to talk about pensioners while Mr Mitsotakis makes statements that there is no possibility of a tenth third pension and continues this absurd policy even after the Prime Minister's announcement on the payment of the thirteenth pension, calling us for populism, because we share money belonging to the Greek people, because justice is finally brought to bear. What the Civic Anti-Civilization does not stand is that that government achieves its objectives and can plan and implement policies for the benefit of the many, cancel measures unnecessarily and implement relief measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, still. I said from this step in my first speech to the House during the debate of the bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis that they want these measures to be temporary and we were then committed to getting the country out of the memorial pit, to come here today to talk about permanent pro-development measures to support and relieve society. The communication firework, therefore, of the New Democracy is no place. On the other hand, it once again gives society the opportunity to learn the anti-social, anti-grassrootian political programme envisioned by the New Democracy. This diversion cannot hide the barbaric anti-social face of the New Democracy programme, because those who are swinging our fingers today are nothing more than the rectifying of the old bankrupt political system, which has inseparable ties to the partisan state and scandals. The government will continue its task assigned to it by the Greek people at the end of its constitutional term. Until this end and with its strategic plan, she'll be able to leave all the causes behind...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u16	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, the crisis, the causes of decline and bankruptcy have led us to conclude. The Greek people know very well who took him out of the memoirs, they know very well that as long as the economy develops, and as long as there are budgetary margins, it is the government of SYRIZA that will ensure that the injustices of the memoirs are restored and that social protection is extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u18	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u19	As long as people want to avoid discussing the substance, the Greek people have before them both in the polling of the European elections and in the polling of the national elections in the autumn clearly programmed dilemmas: Or we will continue on the way to supporting the many, social justice and dignity, or we will return back. But the people have the power and they don't come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u20	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and six trainers from the 3rd Triandria School of Thessaloniki, from the Elementary School of Chania and from the Municipal School of Aperios Karpathos. The House welcomes the children. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Tsiaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting to have a debate on a re-voking of confidence on the part of the government. And it is certain that what we heard yesterday and of course, today by the majority Members, proves that there is a serious inability to support a basic position. I hear the majority Members constantly repeat the position that the New Democracy has attempted a diversion by putting forward a motion of censure against Mr Polakis. Really, ladies? Opposition of the New Democracy to table a proposal for a Civic Opposition for a person who is a Deputy Minister of Health does not respect a young child who is an example of a life struggle? Is that the diversion? And is it not a distraction on the other hand to turn a motion of censure against a political person in search of a vote of confidence for the government, because we must spread the responsibility, ultimately, to all faces? Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that you are currently sharing responsibility with Mr Polakis? But what about this, when the Prime Minister himself hastened to justify Mr Polakis' behaviour, showing how right New Democracy was when he tabled the motion of censure against Mr Polakis. Because he has thus demonstrated that Mr. Tsipras himself is identified with the Deputy Minister in conduct, logic and attitudes. But all this, I imagine, arouse in the logic of diversion when the Prime Minister himself interrupted his tour in an inconceivable study to be found in Zappeion the other day, in order to proclaim new measures, it is assumed, in favour of Greek citizens. Have you cost these measures, ladies and gentlemen? It's 7 billion. Do you know what they remind most Greek citizens of? The 12 billion of the Thessaloniki Program. As long as those promises Mr Tsipras made at that time with reality, I imagine that in exactly the same way these promises, which he gave the day before yesterday, will also be met, regardless of the attempt to legislate for the next three or four years, perhaps through initiative next week, all these measures, in order to show that they will be implemented precisely in this way. But all this ultimately composes an image that, whether you want to believe and accept it or not, is tanning the so-called moral advantage of the Left. I say this because I have heard a fellow Member from co-population earlier say that the moral advantage of the Left remains. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, because the facts themselves have changed this picture. And we're talking about the real facts. It is indeed a problem to accept the real facts for opponents as reason and for themselves not to accept them. And I say this because, in addition to all the discussions that have taken place over the last few years, there are major issues which should indeed make you concerned. The Left of the Members of Parliament rented to keep the parliamentary majority? The Left of the rented ministers, of the people who until recently took care to demonstrate their opposition to the government and became ministers to give the vote of confidence? Is that what you think moral? Is that what you think he's gonna keep the pretexts? Finally, it turns out that all this is, unfortunately, just to keep our own positions, our own seats. The Left, which does not pay value to human life, will forgive me by the JRC's colleagues - the Left of SYRIZA, is not the Left which is supposed to defend over the years a very specific political area. And I say this, because it must sometime be known to all Greek citizens that what we often try to defend in our own way, when it turns out that it is not just something we are fighting against with our political opponents, but something that we do, we can easily justify. That's what you realize is showing a huge moral weakness. There has been a study by the Prime Minister in recent years, apparently through his concern to prove some things, to be guided by humiliations of philosophers, in verbs of poets. It is truly impressive that every time, in each speech, in order to cover matters, he tries to use some lyrics or phrases that under no circumstances can they be identified with him. Colleagues of the Couple, if there really would be a verse with which the Prime Minister could fully identify, it is none other than the one of Varnalis who said: "Where are you, young, who you said I would become someone else!" Because we are talking about a development that is far from reality, which you have promised yourself. In addition, I heard the Prime Minister say in a previous speech that in this battle, the struggle between the social groups, which he - supposedly - defends the weak, the people in real need, he chooses to be with zebras rather than lions. Do you have any idea what you've been proving in recent years? And I do not want to say all these arguments which may reduce the level of political controversy and make it even lower. I will, however, stress the fact that at some point, when there is political controversy on the political arguments, one can and must remain. The policy itself has shown that SYRIZA over the years, not only has not satisfied and has not substantially supplemented the expectations it had created, but unfortunately it has created a society at a much lower level, an economy that cannot breathe, an insurance system that literally bounces, a health that we know does not satisfy the average Greek citizen. I wonder where the achievements in the field of health were found, which the Prime Minister tried to smash last night. Do we not know that to find a Greek citizen in a hospital there are basic needs and basic shortcomings? In the field of education we have been talking about it recently with all that has evolved. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the vote on 26 May will also be a great opportunity for Greek citizens to show exactly what they want and what will be the direction of the next day. But time is running out. Once again, historical responsibility returns to the New Democracy party and to Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Once again, it turns out that the serious relationship of the only political party with the Greek society that has been detained by the republic and then is the real power to deposit their hope, but much more so, all Greek citizens for the next day. You realise that a vote of confidence in a government that goes down and down on a road without return could not be given by the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and two trainers from the 5th Municipal School of Painter. The House welcomes them [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chiara, Anelli said in Italy: "If you have such a left, what do you want it right?" Principles and values, however, of a people who fought, radical fighters, etc. It is not about this policy, and we believe that they will take the right place in the next period. It would be my omission not to start from today's 74th anniversary since the end of World War II, the result of imperialist competition. It is the day of the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples, the immortal epic of the Red Army and the resistance movements of Europe with the pioneering and decisive role of the Communist parties. It is not Europe's Day, as unscrupulously attempts to establish itself by the reactionary European Union. The JRC pays tribute to those who fought with the weapon in hand, those who were sacrificed, tortured, imprisoned, exiled, exiled, all those who fought against the Nazi, fascist, imperialist axis. May 9 inspires the people, teaches them faith in their power. This power can and must be tried by the peoples in their struggle to get rid of the anti-grassroots measures, the memoranda, unemployment and exploitation. It is proud that the JRC, which was the soul, the blood donor and mentor of the heroic struggle of EAM-ELAS, EPAON and other EAMA organisations, is proud. Socialism is the only response to the barbaric capitalist system that gives birth to and nourishes Nazism, fascism, causes poverty, wars and refuge for the people for the benefit of the profits of the few. Yesterday, Mr Tsipras called for a vote of confidence by parliamentarians and the people in the elections on 26 May. The same, of course, did Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the PASOK and their reserves, why should the unemployed, the workers who are living the consequences of the job jungle that you have shaped, the pensioners who have seen their pensions deplete, the self-employed who are being destroyed, why do they not tolerate the robbery that you have imposed on them, the poor farm that is denounced by your anti-agricultural policy, from the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy? Why should young people in particular be trusted to wander between unemployment and various programmes? Why should women trust you that in the name of equality you abolished rights that were conquered with hard struggles? Why should fathers and mothers who see the future of their children uncertain black and who, instead of living better than themselves, live worse? You ask that young people and young people trust you in the elections. Why? Because they're living the nightmare of unemployment? Because you threw them in the work jungle you created? Because you broke their dreams? Or because they have to go after skills to get into some program? Why should retired people trust you? To abolish the CSCE? For pension reductions up to 40%? To abolish the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, the licence allowance, the increase in the age limits to sixty-seven with a view to increasing them further, invoking the demographic problem? There are also a number of other provisions that have been abolished and which have led to poverty and impoverishment a significant part of the part of the jobs. Why should disabled people trust you, their families? For the establishment of CSR slaughterhouses? For the slaughter of disabled pensions and any allowances? Are you asking to be trusted that 95% who are capable of work are unemployed? Or is it for Creative Employment Centres, which are far behind the needs and tormenting families? According to your figures, four out of ten main pensions are less than EUR 500 mixed. One million and forty thousand pensioners receive a gross pension of less than 500 euros, and the large mass is around 330 euros, with a pension of 390 euros. The lowest is, of course, in the farmers, in the former OGA. The average pension is set at EUR 576. But the new average pension based on the Katrugalou law is at 535 euros. You consider the retired weights. "Don't even die," you say, showing the hideous face of this barbaric system. You're asking for their support. "Aactive ageing" you say. You're preparing another attack. Work to death. You have the right to live the pensioner in the last years of his life with dignity, enjoying everything that has helped to create, evolve. But on the other hand, you're giving it all to the capital. Together you are voting on the provocative arrangements, the privileges, the tax exemptions and the whole framework for creating the friendly environment that levels workers' rights. You have adopted a provision to finance so-called 'employers' contributions' for young workers under the age of twenty-five years. And the Prime Minister has announced new gifts through contributions of up to 100%, as he said. The situation of the working people's family is a result of your common strategy, which is nothing more than satisfying the needs of the monopolistic and business groups. You are subsidising the business groups in the name of reducing unemployment. You're offering them free labour. You abolished the constant daily working time, the greatest conquest of the working class, watered with her blood. You have generalised the flexible forms of employment. You shared one job with two and three employees. The data from the ERGANIS system confirm that parttime and rotating contracts account for 53.96%, while only 46.04% are full-time contracts. You have implemented the Serkas report with a characteristic example of doctors' hours for active and inactive time, which the extension will follow in other sectors, with even more painful consequences for workers. You have created the invisible workers, the main young people and young people, as you characterize their employment in the labour jungle and you legalize and permanentize invisible working and insurance rights, making the dreams of their rightful lives invisible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please be indulgent. At the time of the crisis, you have all smuggled your wages and pensions and overthrown rights that have imagined permanently among workers, but the needs of business speeches have levelled them and proved temporarily, since power is in the hands of capital. The purchase value of the salary, according to the Committee of Wise Men you created, at 1980 levels, with the prices and needs of 2019. In the two years, from 2016 to 2018, wage cuts continued by 4% to 5%. You've set off the Brutsi Act. You abolished the collective bargaining. For collective agreements, you have moved to the permitted limits set by the representatives of the workers' associations, after giving them the right to veto, and if they do not deposit the register, do not extend the collective agreement. Capital has never given anything and has never been compatible with what it has had to deal with under the hard class struggle, especially under the influence of socialism. All major conquests, with power in the hands of capital and its political representatives, will be temporary. The SYRIZA Government has created a framework for protecting monopolistic and business groups, perpetuating overturns. This serves the lock out you set up. This puts the obstacles to proclaiming a strike, this is the repression of the games, the peculiarity of opposition to auctions. This is the legislative framework that makes 95% of the strikes illegal. The insurance continued to overturn it by implementing the guidelines of the European Union which do not differ from the Pinochet model. Of course, you've got more twists ahead of you. It's the pan-European pension product. It is the three pillars that you are taking the step. One-way is the organization everywhere, to bring the working class, the people above, to reject the consent and subjugation of the designs of monopolistic and business groups, as implemented by governments, whether they are liberal or social-democratic, left-wing or green.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u24	Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u25	Dismiss the logic of less evil, put in front of its own modern needs. The working class has to make its own assumption that without this gear it does not turn and that it can be without bosses. We are calling on the working class, the partisans of work, the self-employed, the poor farms, and especially the young people and young people to trust with the JRC, which gives all its powers to collide, strengthen everywhere in the elections, regardless of whether they do not agree with everything. So on May 26, a powerful JRC everywhere, because it is power in the hands of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. And here we are four months later, talking again in Parliament about a vote of confidence in the government. At that time, 16 January, it was the last time the Potami was in the debate as a parliamentary group. Today, again in a vote of confidence, the Group of the European People's Party is coming back and even more compact than before, and this restores a parliamentary anomaly, because the parties put them in the House in their vote and citizens take them back with their vote, not the personal strategies of parliamentarians, nor the bourgeoisie of larger parties that promise a hospitable roof, either in the Ministries or in the ballots. The debate on a vote of confidence stemmed from the irresponsibleness of Mr Polakis, which the Prime Minister wanted to protect, without leaving him exposed to a motion of censure. Eighteen days before the European elections, the debate, unfortunately, will not rotate around the real problems of the European elections, but around Mr Polakis, NOVARTIS, SIEMENS, as we saw yesterday. It was a tragicly low level, cafeteria level and "Macelio". We are going to try to keep ourselves in a spirit of persuasiveness. I'm starting with the main question. Do we trust the government? The answer is that we neither have. "But why?" It will be said, after you have passed its bills and even a keynote. So let us distinguish them: it is more important to support my positions in the House and to support the government. People vote for you to support your declared positions in the House and not to see what others are voting for and to determine your position accordingly. And how can we trust the government that has done the greatest damage to education, where it applied the doctrine of academic populism to universities, which has trade unionists always next to her ear, who ideologically rejected everything she would give our young people or the administrations of the universities, insisting on state intervention everywhere, which was easily baptizing "neo-liberal" that she was not in favour of it and rejected it after abomination? But let's go to the economy, which means investment. Without investment, no production can have, and by extension, no jobs to create. We are a country that has suffered a dramatic disinvestment in the years of the crisis. In November 2017, therefore, the forecast for gross fixed capital formation, i.e. investment index, was an increase of 11.4% for 2018. Recently it came out that eventually in 2018 we had, instead of an increase of 10.4%, a reduction of 12.2%. We have had a dramatic reduction in private and public investment less than 12.2%, reflecting the non-existent Public Investment Programme and the anti-investment climate in the private sector, namely your intolerance to private initiative and entrepreneurship. But when entrepreneurship is drained by taxes and contributions to create surpluses, this money from somewhere is missing. They are missing from investment and new jobs. The small and medium-sized businessman has no incentive to expand. He only works to pay taxes and contributions. We need investment in market sectors that will increase by 8% and 9% a year, exports that will increase annually 6% to 7% to catch a minimum growth rate of 3%. And the Prime Minister's earlier announcements on investment are obligated and delayed. But we will comment on them in detail next week, which will also have the hundred and twenty-dollar bill, to see what will go through the institution filter. Ladies and gentlemen, Potami over these four years has made an opposition constructive and not sterile, with proposals for everything. Recently on education, Mr. Gavroglou admitted it. "Only the Potami has tabled proposals," he said, but did not say that they were never heard. In addition to the proposals for education, Potami made proposals on insurance, PPC, the National Security Council, the electoral system, the Constitutional Review, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, transparency and accountability for the financing of parties and their finances. And because yesterday I heard from Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennamas that they have a plan and that they have plans for the country, I hope there will also be some chapter on how they will repay their parties' loans, because, on the basis of their balance sheets, the debts, instead of being reduced, are increased by some 25 million a year due to interest and surcharges. And surely citizens are neither blind to see today's tragic mistakes, nor goldfish, to forget yesterday's mistakes. I close with the Europeans, for which we will vote in a few days' time. Today, too, 9 May, it is Europe's Day. This year's European elections are the most critical ones ever. European citizens will choose between national embassy and European integration. The agendars have already been formed, firstly, by French President Macron, with concrete proposals for European regeneration, and, secondly, by Potami, which speaks of European defence and security, about the climate change fund, about the taxation of multinationals, the minimum European wage, so that the three pillars of sustainable development - economic development, social cohesion and respect for the environment - are developed balancedly. That is why we should continue to discuss the solutions proposed by everyone. In Greece, however, in the coming European elections, but also in the national elections, it seems that two worlds that extend horizontally and intergrouply, not the left and right worlds, not the world of progress and preservation, not the world of yesterday and tomorrow. The world of polarization and the world of wisdom, the world of polarization with barren attacks on the one hand and the world of prudence with fertile confrontations on the other. The world of polarisation - and we saw it yesterday in the House - wants a final fall. He doesn't want any prisoners. It wants 'or we're done with them or we're done with them'. It wants to level the intermediate cooling off objective and rational voices. On the contrary, the second world of wisdom sees the next day, it sees that half of Greece cannot get the country out of the crisis, especially when we see the clouds in our region dense. Potami will be associated with this second world of wisdom and will not be involved either in civil war or in re-insurance fronts. If there is a front that we will serve, this will be the anti-dissident front, the front of citizens' participation, the front of the cool voice and logic. Thank God, over the last few years the citizens have been booming and they have seen where they ended up. In this context, therefore, the only vote of confidence we give is in what Potami is fighting for, for the country's productive and creative forces, for modern and free education, for institutional armour, real democracy and equal opportunities. And, as you can see, it is not possible to give a vote of confidence to the present government, because in these very priorities that I have mentioned, it has remained re-examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u28	So do we. Mr Cavalellas from the Centron Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after about a quarter of a month, the New Democracy regains confidence and exploits, of course, Mr. Paulakis' stumbling block, covered by the Prime Minister, swings the finger, portrays the innocent pigeon for what is happening today, because both the PASOK and the New Democracy have a huge responsibility, as they have ruled, wasted and destroyed the dreams of young people who are now leaving Greece, if they find any point abroad. The aim, therefore, of the New Democracy is polarization, is not the question of whether SYRIZA is well governed or whether it does not rule well, because neither did the current government. Polarization is about to be divided into left and right-wing cafes, because elections are coming and both major gladiators see that only polarization could give them some bit more. What concerns the New Democracy and SYRIZA, of course, and serves both, as I have said, is the fanaticism of the people. There is one logic in SYRIZA, which also submits to the other parties: 'We end them or end us'. The time has long elapsed since the Greek people thought of ending each other. So you want, gentlemen, a vote of confidence. Why? So much lies you've told, and for justifying them in a thousand ways, two ways? You have shaded memorials, you were bored with turbulence and Merkel and all of Europe was dancing, you negotiated with creative ambiguity, and the result was, of course, to bring us to the capital controls. You signed memos. You put the entire real estate of the Greek people in the superstate. You supposedly pulled us out of the memoirs. Is it true that we got out of the memoirs? For sixty years we still have to report and pay obligations. The Katrugalou law is a law, which applies as a tax. Next week, the bill for some beneficial measures for weak citizens comes for discussion. I would like to remind you of what you said: 'No house in the hands of a banker.' And it's the only truth you've ever said, because nine out of ten houses, unfortunately, they're gonna go through funds. Even this very serious issue has been dealt with in communication and disgustingly, because you have brought this issue under the urgency procedure, as, of course, you always do. At first, when you did that, I had the impression that you were incapable. Then, of course, I realized that it was your intention to reduce the time of the bill being discussed. That is why you brought it under the urgency or urgency procedure and added a number of amendments to these issues, if the debate is to go elsewhere, so that there is nothing we can support strongly, because you were creating a dispersal of interest. So you are doing this to have reduced resistance, reduced opposition, reduced objections. You do it to shave voices and bury the big issues underneath the carpet. I live on this issue because it is very serious and it is, of course, going to be discussed here. However, the Greek people do not care about the fine letters, about the contradictions between you, as to whether the prime Prime Minister was on a boat or Mr. Kammenos previously paid with his credit card or cash in England. These are not the dominant issues that burn the Greek people. The Greek people are burning him up the basic problems that have been created, concerning work, the pay of work, health, education and the future of children. We believe that SYRIZA has so far been ruling by promising much, knowing that he cannot satisfy them. Today you ask for a vote of confidence. I wonder where you found this nerve to ask for a vote of confidence from us. Ask the Greek people to give it to you in the next election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd General High School of Heraklion Attica (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Costas Zouraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, my respects. I thank those colleagues who gave me the order. And I would like to say, of course, that I too, because the President and the Exarch of the Right is relapsing again these days, because I saw him succeeding against everything and everyone and SYRIZA, for example, by taking it from an interview on television and on a telephony - that the way of Tsipras is fascist, because it corresponds to the fascist vocabulary and way of Paul. In a logical way and in a logical way, I think I should say to him that, if these apply to him too, with the slandering defamation he has done at my expense for a month and a half - and I have not yet seen him apologize to me - when he told me - in any case, with his prepared greek - the leader of the Right - probably did not have a conscience of what he said - that I am a MP - how did he say? - It's an opportunity price. The opportunity price in current and time-consuming Greek, late on the right, is that "I get it, I got it". So bring me the extraterritorial companies, which have given me 800,000 euros, my apartment in Paris next to Voltaire - I prefer Rene - Char, for example - to bring me one of them, Georgiadis, who is a pedophile with the manure, and the other Georgiadis, who is probably a childgirl with the children who live, and then come tense feet before me, on my feet, your Chief, and I simply try to convince me to say "Zouri, I have sinned" and I am glad to give him my forgiveness. And otherwise, you will go with Columbia with Weber, Obersturm Weber, Obersturmführer Weber, Obersturmführer, with the surrogate of eternal Greece, the long-lasting Greece, with this racist Weber. You're going to go to college with him. Well, don't you send him to the unscrupulous previously, Obersturmführer Weber of Munich's Metanic beer? What can we do and what can we do again,'veberian' rulers, exactly - how does our big guy say? - that you are a feather that binds mushrooms, "beberians" and "Weber - caterpillar", Obersturmführer that binds mushrooms, goats and monkeys! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u32	And we thank you for Mr Zurari's speech. Mr Gatis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Now what do you say? I intended to start with an invitation - a challenge to restore political correctness, but I think Mr Zouraris was politically correct in his way. We have never lost that sense of deep political perception, responsibility, and that is a huge and intransigent difference with the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have seen another hopeless attempt by the Officerate to escape the real political battle, to escape the real political struggle, to escape any debate on the important and essential demands of society, which are the essentials of the political act. It is a motion of censure, followed by a motion of censure, which has been voted against, followed by a continuous and permanent - almost deceptive demand for elections now - a proposal of form, which does not only demonstrate the evasion of the Anti-Population Officer from real politics, but also confirms its inability to respond with adequateness, content and, above all, with responsibility, to its institutional role. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a blow to democracy, this constant and lasting resort to motions of censure and distrust - in the absence of political speech and work - but also to yellowism lately, this political settlement that works without inter-parliamentary procedures to hide the impoverishment of substantive proposals. The New Democracy, at the moment, chooses to put down a motion of censure, seeking two things: first, by failing to address the essential positive results of the SYRIZA Government, which are slowly going through society, attempts to shift the political debate, to remove it from everything that our Government, together with the people and the people, has succeeded or strives to achieve, in the hundreds of twenty instalments for public and insurance debts, the non-taxation, the reinstatement of the thirteenth pension to low pensioners, the reduction of the tax rate on low incomes, the reduction of VAT on fodder from 24% to 13%, the reduction of energy for households and businesses from 13% to 6%, the extra subsidy for youth jobs. These important and important and above all necessary for the recovery of civil society, the weak, are of the character of permanent measures that enable, hopefully, tomorrow for many. The New Democracy and its Leader will not be able to remove SYRIZA from the people, because what we have achieved, we have achieved it with labor, with sacrifices, with the people and ultimately, will lead to its benefit. All this, ladies and gentlemen, which, tomorrow - not in any invisible and distant future - will now become the law of the state, is happening in an external economic environment of pressure, which does not favour us. In this environment we need determination in priorities, stability in objectives, the credibility that the SYRIZA Government has gained. We cannot allow the return to doubt, uncertainty, untrustworthyness, and we cannot leave the popular strata to the insurmountable neoliberalism of the Anti-Policy Officer. The New Democracy is now choosing to put down a motion of censure, for one more reason: it is its unsuccessful attempt to hide its deep anti-liberal and extreme neoliberal programme, what returns the country to the past of the few, depriving the future of many. The return is determined - in short - by the reintroduction of 1/5 to the public, the abolition of allowances and welfare policy, the predominance of private insurance and private insurance, the privatization of education and, ultimately, the collapse of the weakest and most privileged classes. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say, as a Member of the Dodecanese and as President of the Committee of the Regions, but above all as a person who continues to meet daily with his neighbours - in the broadest and narrowest sense - from a remote and demanding point of view towards their daily lives, how I feel politically, socially and morally proud of our commitment to a development policy, to strengthen innovation, particularly in these regions, for the measures we have taken so far in a great effort to reduce disparities in the regions of the country. In this effort, new measures will be introduced, which will take place next time, such as new additional aid measures, especially in our region, which is to reintroduce the tax reduction measure for the permanent inhabitants of the islands with a population of three thousand, the reduction of HPAI or its zeroing to islands with a population of up to a thousand inhabitants and the additional reduction in heating costs in the country's mountain areas. We've even heard suggestions from the Chief of Officer Representation, about what it's worth and what it's not, to us SYRIZA MPs. I have one word to say, and I believe that I am expressing all my fellow SYRIZA Members.It deserves us and what we have is humanity, solidarity, concern for the weak, who we do not negotiate with a cheap and vacant morality. We make it our political vision and work, and today we return it to it again where you have deprived it of it. Let me add just two words here. We understand the right of disabled people to equality, to dignity, to education, to training, to social protection, to autonomous living as our basic obligations through the introduction of specific legislation. In other words, we must build a foundation where it will not be a equality, but a equivalence in the living and evolution of all the social groups. We understand the struggles and claims of the SME as a struggle for an open society, a society of democracy, a culture, but above all a society of responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, if I may. And in this way, we have come to the establishment and implementation of important policies for disabled people, for chronic suffering and for their families, and we are moving on to a new overall legislative framework. We've heard Mrs. Gennamas too. It doesn't say anything different from the New Democracy. In fact, it is almost entirely identical with the New Democracy. The same political positions, which are trying to cover the same political impotence. Same political opinion. A faithful sequence that becomes an uncovered coexistence. A political morality, which turns the supposed, the possibility of the third mandate, into a tool for regulating political positions and positions, thus returning to a past from which they cannot escape. One is wondering - and society is wondering - what could be expected of KINAL. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government, along with the Greek people, has completed a difficult and painful task. Today she puts society back on her feet and gives her, not only hope, but also a tangible program, which leads to a better life. This work is important and important. Above all, however, it is necessary for the Greek people and must continue. That is why we are giving the government the vote of confidence. Society has already given its own vote of confidence to the government since yesterday, with its positive response to the package of positive measures announced by the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Makis Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has a history, it has a process with which it has arrived here. It was initiated by a statement of censure against a minister, Mr Polakis. Mr. Tsipras did not want to table a motion for a vote of confidence in the House. He wouldn't do it otherwise. He wasn't in his intentions. He had not felt alone the need to ask for the vote of confidence. He did so because he called for distrust, the New Democracy tabled the motion of censure against Mr Polakis. This is the dialectical order of events. That's how things went. So the main question is: why did Mr Tsipras do this? Why did he feel the need to do that, now ask for trust? Would he ask for it otherwise? Oh, no. So, in order to bind the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on the question of the motion of censure. It says: To discuss the big ones. Yeah. Question: Is the issue minor, Polakis? Is this a matter of a Sfakian, a little bit more of a chordra? Is that what we had to discuss here? Is that the problem? Or there was a deep question of content, that a candidate MEP, with a heavy mobility disability, makes a place and the Minister of Health comes and tells him not much or much: 'You are not entitled to speak, why have you been appointed with a privilege, with a positive distinction'? Isn't that a political matter? Is it indifferent? Insignificant? And in order to cover this, a vote of confidence is requested. That's the match, Polakis. SYRIZA, why do you accept it, ladies and gentlemen, now? Yes, the Prime Minister's initiative. Paulakis is fully identified with Tsipras. And I'm sorry, what he spooked the other day was that it was something misguided. Communications? So he said a little wrong? Wasn't it wrong as to content? Was it the form wrong? So the match has been made. Make this choice at this point in time. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is so much because you see that the way you have simplified and raised the issues - I have to say - is now falling apart. Simplification has advantages when it is done. It is fragile, it puts dilemmas in a clear way, it is easily understood by the people, it creates identities. And you played a lot with these simplifications. Memorandum - antimony. Do you remember that? This deep division that lasted for years, when you came here saying "we the antimony until we pick up the trash otherwise"? Do you remember all these screams about donors, traitors, contractors, foreign law? Do you remember all this? That's it. They collapsed. It was a false distinction. Actual discrimination is made on the basis of ideological and programming positions. That was a false distinction. You signed a memorandum. You've been privatizing. Now, listen to what you are talking about: From the donors, you are now talking about the surpluses, about budgetary discipline, about whether they have made reserves. It's like you're listening to Yannis Stournara when you hear Tsipras! Another reason. Discrimination collapsed. You have invested in a second distinction. It was the distinction between the young and the old. The momentum of the new civilian staff, the new system against the old, obscured and corrupt. Discrimination collapsed. How can it not collapse? When you look at the benches, what do you see? We have a good representative of the old, and today we are close to us, Mr Papagelopoulos. He's not the only one. And Mr. Kourublis and Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou. How many and how many! You've defended it now, because you see the contradiction. You have also set the terms for politicians. I have heard Mr Tsipras say: of course, they are the ones in PASOK who disagreed. Do they disagree or reject? Or didn't they find a career? Mr. Moraite, when did he, by the way? When he was ministred, did he disagree? Mrs. Papacosta? Mr. Kammenos, the young man's representative? Discrimination collapsed, new-old and what's left of it? The third distinction: we who didn't put our hand in honey. The morals. They have the moral advantage. We don't do what you do. You're the corrupt one, and we're the moral news. We may not know what happens to us, we may fail at all, we may not have abilities, we may have nothing, but we have the moral advantage, we are the dire and white! I heard Mr. Tsipras yesterday. He raised an issue which, on all sides, is of interest. He said, ladies and gentlemen, at some point: 'My privacy is being violated'. How barbaric! That's right. His privacy is being violated. Yeah. Two things I'll ask here. When Samara's child gets hurt, doesn't he have his child privacy? Oh, no. Mrs. Mitsotakis, when she is slandered and systematically smuggled by the Prime Minister, who yesterday... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have some time, Mr. President? As many as the others, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u36	You've never been deprived of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President, it is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u38	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u39	So when the Prime Minister comes and says to Mrs Mitsotakis and issues are raised about the absolutely personal relationships of the Chief of Official Representation with his wife, about the period of their dimension, when she says the house of Voltaire, which is not the house of Voltaire, which has been legally purchased, which has been checked and for which nothing has been found, but an epinomial, when he says middle management with Christoforos - a lie, why is the house of Christoferos and elsewhere the house of Mitsotakis - they have no privacy? Do they have or don't they? In order for the Prime Minister to invoke it. There is, however, one, ladies and gentlemen, and one element in which privacy is bent. What's that? When you're a hypocrite, and when your public words are controlled in relation to your individual behavior. Isn't it the Prime Minister who told us about the relations we have with the shipowners? He, who never would have accepted such relationships! And you take the fat and take the vacation, and when you're told it's contradictory - why, by the way, you've just voted on a provision that you're giving tens of millions of shipowners, because you're reducing their obligation - you remember you have privacy? Discrimination has collapsed. The moral advantage sank in Kalogerica's pastures, sank to Beglitis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u40	Anything new?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u41	These, you know, Mr. Colleague, because you're in a hurry, they're open...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u42	He's rushing to the Stepma, Mr. Voridis, because he's after you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u44	Bayatika. Very bayiac and poor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u45	It's not Bayatic. Do you know when this will end, Mr. Comrade? They will end with extrajudicial decisions. And it's completely open, because I heard you complain about it, too. But Katsakos is in the Trimela of felonies and is referred to as unfaithfulness in the DEPA and ELPE case. As well as the president of CEDEFOP, yours, has a conviction. So discrimination has collapsed. This simplistic way has collapsed, and now you don't have any new tricks. The elections are coming. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u46	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how much Valterlo can stand a Party and a Chief. A reasonable answer is one. And yet, the New Democracy and its Leader have thrown down all their records in dustrial failures and calamities. Remind the period before the January 2015 elections, where polls gave seven and ten points in front of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u48	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u49	What your favorite polls do now. SYRIZA finally passed in front of nine units. That was Waterloo number one. Then he assured that the government has three months' life. He's been disproved. It was Waterloo number two. And they followed more. Lots of Waterloe. In every evaluation, he bet the disaster. But the government’s success came. More Waterlo!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u50	Yeah?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u51	How many TV hours do you remember? How much ink was spent on that famous cutter, calculated daily and informed us of the channels how much the activation of the cut will cost for every citizen separately? And yet, this ramification has never come. On the contrary, the donor's in position. More Watterlo. And then, there was an outrageous prediction of the reduction in pensions. Alas, the pensions aren't cut. More Watterlo. Then came the increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the subordinate. More Watterlo. And against predictions that we won't get out on the market, we went out, getting a 3.5% interest rate. Background low since 2015. More Watterlo. And there are the hundred twenty doses coming, and the non-reduction of taxfree, and other Vatterlos and more. I understand. How to deal with this positive reality for the Greek people? How can he manage the bitter reality for the New Democracy? How to overcome the shock of exiting the memorials or the imminent release of the country from the International Monetary Fund, which you and your partners have brought to tie us hand-to-hand? Well, SYRIZA did it. And there are other permanent relief measures, as the Prime Minister announced the day before yesterday, positive measures of EUR 4.2 billion for this year and for 2020, which relieve society, stimulate demand and regeneration the economy. Another Vatterlo was waiting for you these days when you were moving holiday photos. All these measures, of course, did not arise from the gap. The economy's going well. In all the indicators, all the parameters, there is now an area of economic freedom to return to the people all that you deprived him of. And do you know where all the things that come from returning to the people come from? The ones we don't steal. Because neither we nor anyone else in our family have offshore. No homes abroad, no one knows how they were acquired. Nor do we owe EUR 250 billion as a party. But you owe 250 million and you want to house the country's economy? How can anyone trust you? Based on what credibility? Good, you failed as a government. Woe, though! Have a seat, Mr. Voridis, I'll be done. I listened very carefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u52	Are we going to consider later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u53	I'm afraid you need to come in September directly, because I see that you don't have to go through the lesson, because that's not where you're going, in the opposition. So continue with the political lead that characterizes your collection from your favourite Vatterlo. This government, along with a wide democratic front by citizens who daily coordinate their step with us, with a strong progressive alliance, will continue to fight to return all of this to the Greek people, which you deprive him of, with your memorials, with your strife, scandals and your authoritarianism. The country's recovery continues steadily. All you finally achieve is a collection of small and large Waterlos. It's your fault Tsipras, it's your Pope, it's your fault Paulakis, but what really is your political choices and your anti-popular ideology. They give birth to your Watterlo surplus and it's the only surplus that you can achieve. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can produce all you want for yourself. But as long as you have ruled, loaded with Waterloo and the country. You bankrupt her, threw her on the rocks and the memoirs. Now you want to rule again, why? To load the country with a new Waterloe? The Greek people, then, on 26 May at the European elections and in the autumn at the parliamentary elections, will give you the answer. It will keep you standing in opposition, if you at least learn to stand up, as with the government opportunities that have been given to you in the past, you have screwed up. You've done a bad thing in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u54	And we thank Mr. Darkness. Mr Constantine Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the House lived one of the most depressing moments in its post-military life. I do not hide from you that, while listening to the mud and personal conflicts between the top two actors in our parliamentary society, I felt the need to ask the Bureau for the floor on staff. To the question of what the personal issue is, my answer would be self-evident: I felt deeply insulted, consistently exercising the post of MP for so many years, to witness the insult of his own function, which we all have to serve, what is constitutionally guaranteed as a representative of the nation. I am sure many of us who belong to all the democratic parties have left yesterday really raged. Sadly, ladies and gentlemen, we are in breach of our institutions, our parliamentary customs and our parliamentary order. I will mention something that you may consider to be a plausible, plaque, but it is indicative. When a party exercises the right to resort to a motion of censure vis-à-vis a person or institution, it is now customary for the Prime Minister to exercise what is unfortunately his privilege - not now, but before - to turn the debate into a vote of confidence into a government, essentially by abolishing this right of counter-population in practice. Parliamentary order requires, if the Prime Minister wishes to do so, but after the debate on the motion of censure has been concluded, for which he has every right to insist, which puts forward a motion of censure to a person or an institution. You'll tell me: Tall letters. What are you talking about? But this is how we degrade every institutional function, we cut the Constitution to our own measures. It is not a good omen for the present and the future of our democracy to manipulate and use institutions and rights in due course. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we live these days and what does the people watch play in the political game? While the country, under the responsibility of Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, has entered a far-reaching pre-election period since last year's Thessaloniki exhibition, while we are only seventeen days before an important political battle, that of the European elections, the two gladiators of the small and deadlocked bi-group have opened their last election papers for the national elections. Would anyone ask: But do we not have European elections? Who cares about Europe? Here's the duplication of power. This is at stake in a fight without principles, without limits, without political morality. One, on a patronage Prime Minister, remembered the old and outdated for the last four years. He decided to play defender of the poor, something like Robin Hood, to avoid the pandemic outcry for the way he exercises power, which further impoverished the people, who managed the human hundreds in Matty, who is clearly and unequivocally traded with the cursed elites, to whom he bails daily. The other, waiting for an aspiring Prime Minister, chose the time to bring to the heart a person who also gathers the pandemic for his incomprehensible and unthinkable political ethos and respect for his behaviour, considering it easy and self-evident to see the Prime Minister's self-evident and long-lasting identification of "polluterism", a term that has now entered into our daily life. He's knocking open doors. We are unequivocal. And the motion of censure would also vote for the vote of confidence. Why would we be voting in favour of the government? For a national strategy, which tackles national issues and integrates them into the internal dialogue and election purposes? For a development strategy that breaks down the backbone of growth in small and medium-sized enterprises, is it dramatically reducing public investment and hosting structural changes that would lead to productive reconstruction? For a policy that the most modern, most productive, most active potential in the country either pre-election or sends it to an immigrant abroad? For an economic policy, which insists on austerity, tax latitude, the reduction of social costs and the bloody surplus, does it resort to an election benefits policy to ash ash in the eyes? For the practical systematic manipulation of institutions? For those who put themselves in justice? To dismantle self-government? Or is it about the speed that changes any conflict of political and economic interests and becomes a 'our own regime'? Finally, what European perspective and what progressive strategy, which can convincingly bring the European vision back to its surface and have the power to impose the necessary new European treaty? Because this should be the debate in Greek political life today. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we would not vote against Mr Polakis as a person, nor as an intent, nor as an intent, nor even as a last-dated statement, which hurts those with elementary human sensitivity. In his face we would vote against 'pollism'. It was with him, unfortunately, that the Prime Minister of the country was identified. What is this "pollution"? The one who turns to toxic political life, the one accusing of conceiving parties and parties, turning individual responsibility into collective, extreme practice of total perception and mentality. The guilty PASOK, tomorrow the guilty SYRIZA, yesterday the guilty New Democracy. Partys voted by the great majority of the Greek people at times of arrest are guilty, are accountable to the existent and non-existent scandals of individual, obviously, pursuits that exist in all parties and in all times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The one who pulls out real and non-existent scandals, which blackmails or prejudges judgments of justice, which builds constructions against his opponents, the one who turns us into judges, judges, and we are dealing with our opponents politics, the country, democracy, the very story that we leave the people out, mediocre, frustrated. Yesterday I sought from the daily press how many cases could be investigated as a scandal of the current government. I was scared because they're cases with a name. I'm only telling you the number: 16.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u56	The daily press!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u57	Listen to me. I'm not saying it's scandal, ma'am. Don't worry. Sixteen cases I counted. So what? Today the New Democracy is coming - whether rightly or not - and says that the offences should not be dropped. Obviously, the offences should not be filed. Evidently, justice should investigate every case. And we say it: All in the light. I'm interested in the climate. Think of what is going to happen next election. Again in the country's same critical situation, again in the same deadlock, we will seek the innocent and the guilty, finding each other, as was done here yesterday for personal affairs, which are unworthy of the height, the calibre of a Prime Minister and a Chief of Officer's Vice-President, who wants to rule the country. So I ask, where are we going? 'Quo vadis', which they would say, to really go back to a historic book. That scares me, dear friends and friends, much more than anything we are talking about today, because the country, anyway, must move on, because the parties will change into power anyway, because some people who are young are today, become older and are small. This taught me thirty years of parliamentary life and fifty years practically political struggle. That's what they taught me, and that's what will happen. The question that comes to the lips of the ordinary citizen, of what is most intense behaviours and practices, of what is held to be in the cheap conflict with a view to the election performance, not even the election performance before the European elections, is: who at last cares about Greece, Greece, who, without being taught from the past, is condemned to live in political structures, unfair transactions and market political confrontation? Who cares about Greece, who, while her people are seriously poor, is forced to live with the provision of glazed benefits and unpaid promises, Greece, who is again threatening to raise the threat of the expansionist review of Ankara and cannot create a stable path by defending its national interests and fairness, Greece, which, in the end, is marching without honesty in the middle of a triumph that has already broken out in the region? The country with you, Mr. Tsipras, at its wheel goes from evil to worse. Nor with you, Mr. Mitsotakis, can hope in better days. It requires a political overthrow, before the place enters into new adventures, which will prevent us from reliving yesterday's experience and which will bring Greece forward again, so that the Greeks will feel united and dignified again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Karakosta from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u59	Good morning to all who are in the Chamber, but also to those who are watching the Parliamentary channel. We are two weeks and a few days before the European elections and elections for local and regional government, and instead of the public debate about strengthening democracy in Europe or economic issues, with enormous hypocrisy the Qualified Opposition - but at least in part, it is also followed by the other Opposition - is raising a public statement by the Deputy Minister for Health, which is artificially, friends who are involved in the Opposition within them have hypocritically paraphrased. Just reading is enough to understand. But your desire to reap the moral advantage of the Left is the arm that chokes you. The so-called magnanimity of humanity and dignity, mentioned by your Chief against authoritarianism, is literally for laughter. The wheelchair movement itself is aware of your own authoritarianism, which ministers have horizontally curtailed their decency tools by looking only at the cost, which Deputy Head of Health - I repeat, Health - challenged the right, even out of the home for work. The motion of censure you make is the definition of disorientation from the political agenda of the days. You would rather not discuss the major issues of our society, the possibilities that we now have as a country to heal wounds caused by the crisis, the criticality of the Euro-elections for Greece and the whole of Europe, but you are trying to avoid dialogue that will reveal the poverty of your arguments. But, with the proposal for a vote of confidence in the government, you will, gentlemen, have to take a position, not only on the real political agenda of days, but also on whether you are in favour of the institutionalised procedures for the recruitment of disabled people or of which you consider them to be favoured. The citizens, ladies and gentlemen, know who dropped the minimum wage, which we invented, who invented the shameful underpaid wage for young people, which we abolished, who reached 28%, which we dropped to 18%, who cut the access of uninsured people to care and health structures and who have allowed free access of two and a half million uninsured people to the public health system, what we have really saved at the last minute from the total collapse, because of your scandalous policies with affairs and practices, which are now also working on regular justice. The citizens know who are responsible for the country's bankruptcy, who plundered the public funds, who put them in the memorandum. They remember the generalized deception of the country worldwide, and they are now seeing - without, of course, perfect things - its upgraded role in the Balkans and in Europe and they are listening to international rating agencies constantly upgrading our country. Citizens know that our Government is addressing the great social majority and supports low-wage and low-wage pensioners, middle-class and middle-income, those who have been hardest hit by the crisis. That's the ones we want to lighten up. For them we have succeeded in abolishing the pension cut measure. That is why we are now ensuring that the positive performance of the economy becomes permanent measures to support income and employment. And while we, after systematic work, brought the bill with the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments for debts, which are already being discussed in Parliament's Committees, while reintroduced the rate of replacement for non-aged widow's pensions, while announcing the immediate reduction in VAT on food, focus, energy, direct payment of a permanent third-party pension and other positive tax measures, which are coming and while the Community's economic forecasts are talking about the dynamic recovery of the Greek economy, which also allows for the non-cutting of pensions on maintenance and duty-free, it is time to ask the CSR, because the citizens must be aware of your position to abolish the Christmas gift, the social dividend, the unemployment allowance, your position to limit recruitment, the redundancy of contractors, the abolition of collective negotiations, your position on your flexicur and flexible forms of employment. We're asking if you're going to apply the adopted measures if you ever become a government. The President of the New Democracy to the D.D.1 said that in this time there is no possibility of a tenth-third pension and it was unequivocal. Your ERT1 address stated that it is not bound for any of the above. It seems that the only commitments of your party are the commitments with the "SIEMENS", with the "NOVARTIS", with the "Danish and Anxiety" of the banks, with the debts of "KERYKA", with the newly emerging debt of 150 thousand euros from the Journalists Fund, with the public with the "CORB" off-shore sponsor. You're escaping, gentlemen. Instead of talking about justice, equality, democracy, about a progressive economic transformation in Europe, about innovative and 'green' solutions in a social and solidarity Europe, you are talking about allegedly offensive behaviour. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In the face of false news, in the reports that throw lights on people's protests, which are measured in one hand's fingers, in the vulgar disapproval titles, we are confronted with the real images of our open gatherings all over Greece, the reception that the world holds with the Prime Minister, wherever he goes, from Crete to Thrace, where we have seen the entire village welcome him, to embrace him with enthusiasm, Christians and Muslims. We saw the Prime Minister speak against the stereotypes with the forgotten Roma and Pomako. However, since you cannot experience these unprecedented reactions of the residents, gentlemen of the Officers of the Anti-Civilization, you have created - always in agreement with the news manufacturers of your oligarchs and mediators - your own fake "WOMAN" from the originals "Polakis, Matty, Koster". With this lie you will, unfortunately, and with that you will gladly end up with all of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-three students and students and five teachers, from the 2nd Artas Municipal School and the Arta Municipal School of Arta, Nice. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, with Article 25 of the Greek Constitution, the principle of social law is guaranteed by the State itself. This means that the purpose and at the same time an obligation of every prosperous and fair state must be well-designed construction of a social state. Yesterday, for an hour, we watched the most recent President of Officerial Representation, Mr Mitsotakis. For one hour I counted three words on a social state. Do you know why the New Democracy programme for the social state has not developed us? Because 'neo-liberalism' and'social state' are completely incompatible. The government, from the very first moment, which took over the wheel of the country, has unfolded the design of its social policy and has implemented a well-targeted strengthening of the social state in the reality of the broken-down and inexistent social state that we have received. In four difficult years, therefore, the welfare budget increased by 408%. In 2015 we received a budget of EUR 790 million. The budget for 2019 is EUR 3.225 billion. We are creating a pro-innovative model and a social state for others with horizontal actions, not only for vulnerable people, but also for middle strata. In particular, I am making a very strict choice of the government's actions, because time is not enough to develop all social vendals. I would need not only an hour like Mr Mitsotakis, who didn't say a word to us, not just for the New Democracy social programme, but for the programme in general. Thus, with regard to family allowances from eight hundred thousand families and 650 million euros budgeted for 2015, in 2018, nine hundred thousands of families and one million six hundred thousand children received the family allowance and the budget was 1,1 billion euros. We gave and give school lunches. Moreover, they share a hundred and fifty - three thousand daily hot meals in nearly a thousand schools. The budget is EUR 50 million. Next year the goal is for three hundred thousand school meals and next year for six hundred thousand meals will be given to all primary schools in the country, since this government, SYRIZA, continues to be at the wheel. We listen now and then, sore and then or often for nursery stations. Mr. Mitsotakis said he'd give over a thousand. And we want to ask Mr Mitsotakis and all the members of the Officerial Response: are you really so interested in the child when we, as a government, received seventy thousand voucher, a total budget of EUR 172 million, and this year in 2019 we gave a hundred twenty-seven thousand vouchers and 236 million euros, not from the ESDP, but from the state budget? In other words, we had an increase of 60% further. We have established and established the Single Benefits Award Agency, OPEKA, for why? In order to provide all benefits on the same day, every month and not to wait for either the disabled or the other vulnerable social groups, when the allowance will be granted for various state, municipal, and Rusphetological logic. As far as the fundamental, inalienable and constitutionally guaranteed right to the roof is concerned, we voted for the amendment on the protection of first residence. In addition, EUR 500 million will be made available this year for a housing allowance and a'red' housing loan allowance. The beneficiaries will be a million hundred and seventy thousand of our fellow citizens. For the LEADER, because that was the trigger. If you wish, contrary to what was expressed by your candidate MEP - who did not, in my opinion, express the core of your policy on SMEs and on the social state, when he said that he does not want benefits, he does not want allowances, but claims on equal terms - contrary to this policy, we believe that the disabled should also be supported by positive discrimination in order to reach equal opportunities. They have been demands of the disabled movement for years, which this government has been coming and implemented, such as the 15% rate for people with disabilities and their relatives, in terms of recruitment in the public and wider public sectors. In 2017 we voted for a law, we are taking the step forward in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. An disability coordination mechanism was established under this law. A particular person has been appointed to every Ministry, in order for the government and legislative work to be implemented with respect to every article, in every law, to the rights of the disabled and the obligations of the state to our particular fellow humans. Did we create the Electronic Disability File that he's doing? It is already piloting in Attica by getting the disabled out of suffering, from bureaucracy, from rumphetia, of the EUR 46 that they have so far given to the CECs. For the first time - if possible - ladies and gentlemen - it is deafening this fact - under the 2017 Act, ELSTAT is obliged to collect statistics on the disabled, because until now our country has not had official statistics on disability, we did not know how many disabled are hiding in the homes, in the villages, in the region. The Greek state - I tell you again - has not yet officially had any statistics on disability, which are essential for the planning and implementation of specific policies. For diseases, which have been given indefinitely and for life, we have updated the single table for the determination of disability rates from forty-three, which you had for decades and made them a hundred forty-four. I would like to refer to the last two programmes, so that the fellow citizens who are listening to us know more about them. The Ministry of Interior, under the "Philodis" programme, issued an invitation to the municipalities of the country these days. We expect the municipalities to respond. Because, ladies and gentlemen, to date, seven thousand three hundred schools in our country have no ramps. Nine thousand nineteen schools don't have toilets for MEASURES. And this invitation from the Ministry of Interior and the "Philodis" programme amounts to 35m euros. We open closed and inactive for years camps. In the Pieria Leptokary, from which I come, who are hosted in these camps? Thirteen thousand fellow citizens of MEDA and not, by the sea, in nature, with creative employment, supported by these camps from the welfare centres, which we want to strengthen on staff. For ramps, burned by various mayors and district rulers that they put ramps, they do well and they put them. Where do they get the money? The money comes from this government, when, for example, we give 15 million euros for this year, so that there is no single citizen of AMEA who does not enjoy the good we all enjoy, swimming at sea during summer holidays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to conclude with general political conclusions, without mentioning the increase in the minimum wage to EUR 650. You tell us that wages are 300 euros and something. Do you know that we are the first government to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate? Pick what you're gonna do. Would you denounce the checks from the APRC, or would you denounce the minimum wages? We, ladies and gentlemen, are completely different from what the New Democracy president, Mr Weber, the New Democracy's chosen President, said when he described the measures announced yesterday as irresponsible economic decisions. Unresponsible, because it is responsible for policy on you and neoliberalism that the crowd should not take anything, nothing on the large majority and take it on all the possessors and possessors. For all these reasons, but also for many more, we support this government. We call on the Greek people to support SYRIZA and the progressive party in the Euroleaf, so that we do not have austerity, to have more rights, more social state in Europe, and we will call for the vote and confidence of the Greek people in the national elections in October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Cassidy from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u63	The debate began on the initiative of the New Democracy to propose reproach for Polakis. It does not reproach Macedonia, does not reproach the betrayal of the country, does reproach the misery and graphics of Polakis. Prespes and the infamous Prespecies Agreement were constitutional for the New Democracy. All the ethnic denial of SYRIZA was constitutional and when the Golden Dawn made a proposal and objection of unconstitutionality for the Prespecies and the assignment of the name of Macedonia, the New Democracy was then written with Tsipras and the entire wing of SYRIZA applauded the Treasury, depositing the Parliamentary representative of New Democracy, because you are together, you are united in the destruction of Greece. As the President of the New Democracy said, he will respect the infamous anti-national Ambassadors' agreement. He'll respect it! Well, no, there's an entire people who don't respect national mobility! There is Golden Dawn, which will abolish this disgrace, will abolish the assignment of our Macedonian name to Skopje. So you're together in too many ethnicly-ethnic. You are together in the performance of citizenship, unconditional to those who illegal immigrants enter Greece. Together you voted New Democracy and SYRIZA on the Mouzala amendment. Together in hotspots. The selector of the New Democracy for the Municipality of Athens, Bakoyannis, is one of the first district managers, who installed hotspot and, indeed, in a historical site, in the eternal Thermopylae, to house illegal immigrants next to the monument of the great King Leonidas. You are together Tsipras and Mitsotakis in the destruction of the Greek economy. Together you voted the third memorandum in August 2015. Together you accept and promote the transfer of the national wealth of Greece to foreign hands. Together SYRIZA and New Democracy you say "no" to the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, for which the Golden Dawn was first in 2012 in the Greek Parliament, tabled a proposal for a law to recognise the Greek EEZ and then to exploit the Greek natural gas deposits, our rich production sources, which would make us a dominant power in the Eastern Mediterranean, which would make us a great economic and defence force. You say 'no' and united you open the road to the Turks. In the European Parliament you voted 'yes' to move Turkey forward in Europe, at the same time that they are pressing Cyprus at the same time as they are causing the Aegean, at the same time that the Turks have literally escaped and trampled our national laws. I had given a solution, for what is being discussed today, for the drills in Turkey, which are circulating unnecessarily in the Greek seas. I had made a proposal on the major issue of the Cyprus issue in a Committee on National Defence and I said that Greece should install powerful aeronautical forces in Cyprus, have freshmen in Cyprus, have Greek Mirage 2000-5 at Paphos Airport, which with Cruise missiles and Scalp missiles can hit a long radius within Turkey. So all problems would have been solved and the Turks would not have been allowed to ride in the Greek and Cypriot Exclusive Economic Zone today. So there together, the Syrians and the neo-democrats also voted to fine me for my intervention at that time, because I had denounced those elected Members here and entering the Turkish consulate. You are together in the Islamization of Greece. Together you voted for all the neo-democrats and all the Syrians to create an Islamic mosque in the capital of the Greeks, in Athens, in the cradle of global civilization. You voted under the shadow of the Acropolis to create an Islamic mosque and forget the thousands of fighters and heroes who were sacrificed to leave the mosques, mosques and Islam from our country. You're together in all areas. You're together in the riding of justice. You dare talk about justice when the Prosecutor's Prosecutor has sent a request here to the House to prosecute and investigate the criminal responsibilities of former Prime Minister Samaras for illegal interference in justice, which led the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group to prison. The prosecutor and Tsipras with a majority say "no" to cover the New Democracy. This is what Tsipras is doing to them, and that is why we see no reaction to the essential issues, to national issues, only reactions to the eyes of the world and to the wrinkles of Parliament for Paul and his graphics. On the question of the persecution of the Golden Dawn, above all, you are united. You voted to abolish the financing of the Golden Dawn, an anti-constitutional measure. And yet, we continue, we do our fight without state money, and we have proved that the parties do not need state money, to work, at the same time that New Democracy and PASOK owe more than 400 million. The Greek people pay them with the recapitalisations of the banks and the memos, and SYRIZA votes for the law to be inconsistent with state funding. When we come to things - for that is why you fight us - this law will be abolished and then anyone who owes, PASOK, New Democracy, any party that owes, will enter the clerk and lifts them up the offices, walls, chairs, tables, as you do with every Greek citizen who is in prison for 50 euros. You're together in the fountains and helicopters of pluralism. Tsipras is taking his walks with the nuts of Panagopoulos. Mitsotakis is taking his walks with Sunday's helicopter. You are together the chosen children of pluralism. That is why they have you "first face" on their channels and every day we see this misery of resentment being promoted by the intertwined channels. Above all - and with this issue I will close - you are united in a very critical battle to be fought in the coming days. To the battle of the Golden Dawn, to keep Athens, the capital of the Greeks, Greek. We see the debates, as happened yesterday in the Alfouzouzos Turkish, which operates with Erdogan's Turkish funds, who debate and went symbols, neo-democrats, owls, PASOK candidates and you all unitedly said that you must rule out Golden Dawn. Bakoyannis has said that when Ellie Stai asked him that in the second round, confronted with Golden Dawn, they will all be united. He said, "We will all fight together against Golden Dawn in the second round of municipal elections for the Municipality of Athens". In this battle we will be present against all, and this battle will be victorious. We owe that to the generations that come, but also to those who left. We owe it to Nikos Mustaka, the child murdered in Philippappu by foreign criminals. We owe it to all these Greeks, who are diagnosed daily in the center of Athens by crime and illegal immigration. We'll be present in battle, present against everyone. We know you'll be united. But that is why, because in our view, we are going to have the Greek people on our side, in the end we will be winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u64	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a normal country today's debate would never take place. And it would never be done because if a Minister of any government had unleashed such a severe, incapable attack on a disabled person, or resignation or would have been released exemplarily at the same minute. We are in Greece, however, with a government of SYRIZA. And here, instead of the Prime Minister ejecting this Minister, he chose to do two things: First, he chose to provide him with full coverage, to justify his statement. And then take a vacation with him as a reward for this statement and therefore of his behavior. And second and more serious: the Prime Minister chose to turn the motion of censure against his minister into a vote of confidence in the whole government. So a message is clear: 'Since you're messing with Paul Paul Paul, you're messing with us all'. The message is we're all Pauls. All the same. Everybody equals, looking down. Because that is the dominant doctrine of this government. This embassies and that wants to apply to the whole society. He wants to create a society of drugs, a society of minor efforts, a society of equalisation, a society of hatred and division, a society without respect for the needs of many. He wants to create a 'Police' society. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy of moral deprivation is embodied in all the interventions of the government. I shall mention, for example, in the area of the economy by bleeding out households from any income available. In public security and public order, with the release of thousands of barbers by abolishing high security prisons, with the provocative tolerance of lawlessness and infraction. In justice, with unprecedented interference in the work of independent judicial and public prosecutors. Above all, however, this iso-depressive logic of the SYRIZA, that of the minor effort is embodied in the government's interventions in the very sensitive area of education. That government has demonized excellence. Let me remind you that the best student doesn't hold the flag in the school parade anymore. Excellency doesn't hold her, Mr. Friend. He's got it. He's got it. So you're going through a message to the new generation, to the children who are eleven, twelve years old, that in life it doesn't matter trying, it doesn't matter how you grow up. It only matters one thing: luck. This is the full level of education as well. You have, in fact, abolished the standards and experimental schools, these islands of excellence and innovation, which should be a guide to all schools in our country. You abolished the evaluation for all teachers, public teachers and private teachers. Not to be evaluated. You lowered the entire day's school and digital school. You have fully deregulation of vocational education and training. You've gone through the administrative training machine with a party army. You demanded classic letters in complete contrast with what happens in the rest of the world that are strengthened at all levels. Restore the asylum, turning the universities into places of all kinds of criminals. You dragged the foreign language programs into a reasonable introvert. You have established a very restrictive framework for postgraduate programmes, which are currently becoming a commitment. And you have dispersed the technological area of higher education with the arrest of the country's TEIs and their irresponsible absorption by the universities, without academic criteria, without evaluation, without sustainability and feasibility reports, without the guarantee of professional rights, without a project, with one single criterion: micro-policy, votes. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, everything we are discussing here is a matter of education. And your contributions to education are, unfortunately, the most destructive and degenerating of our worthy code. For us, New Democracy, education is the biggest investment we can make for the country. Because the education you give the young children today will depend on what country and what citizens you have tomorrow. And we cannot and should not tolerate this fall in the institutions and values in the economy, public security, justice, education and, ultimately, democracy as a whole. And that is why we are here today: to fight the values, to fight for the restoration of the institutions that have been deeply affected by this government, to fight for dignity and excellence, to fight for the restoration of quality and ethos in the public speech. We owe it to society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the lights are falling on you today. Each one of you - Mr. Friend, for example - call on you today to respond to the whole of society if you approve of your government's Minister to do the following: threaten journalists to bury them three meters below the earth, desecrate the memory of his dead opponent, refer to the numerous victims of H1N1 influenza and say that 'it is not a disaster, how do you do it?' to threaten namely judicial officers, to launch an unprecedented and inappropriate attack on a disabled person. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I understand the check on the party line. But there is also something called human dignity, which is called a personal code of values. And each one of us is ultimately judged in his life for the little and the great "no" that he had the courage to perform. That's what he's judged for in his life. You have, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the opportunity to prove to the Greek people that you do not have the same code of values as Mr Polakis. Will you do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u66	The Vice-President now has the floor. Then I'll give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr. Constantine Army. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I am bypassing the poems of the clandestine opposition poets, who rise to the Step and say 'In the Fishes the whole black back' that SYRIZA destroyed and denounces the 'polakada' as another 'Iliada', from the scourges communication apparently, and I will make a note of the representative of the Nazi paranoia that preceded the Stepma. And to say that this paranoia, Nazis, is that rodent, which drags around where there's damage. Where political wear is smelly, there it crawls to rock what can be shaken. And I would like to ask here a question from yesterday's debate: it can go further down, referring to the speech of the Chief of Police. Can we go down there? I'm afraid we can. Admiral to say here that I am seven years in this Chamber. It is not much compared to those of other Members, but because of work I have been many years before in the Chamber or in the gallery, and I can assure you that no myth has been in my head for what is called the functioning of parliamentary democracy. But for the first time I hear from the Step of the Parliament's Chief of Officerial Response to indict a malicious slogan, which is obviously written by some communicationists, foreigners or Greeks is irrelevant and there is no discrimination. For this kind of communicationist what are they doing? There is no distinction between commercial and political advertising. That's the product, good or bad. So this product must be promoted at all costs and by any means. So we have seen this phenomenon, and I say if that is politics, what is under-policy? What does the world expect from political leaders in the heart of an election campaign? To listen to their suggestions, criticism, vision or design now that the country is coming out of a ten-year crisis. No, that's not gonna happen, and it's not gonna happen. There are some measures. Is it a positive or negative view of the Civic Opposition? If she has a negative view and sees them as a pre-election or election trick, she will not vote for them. Because by voting on such an election game. You can't have the dog full and the pie all over. You can make fun of me, I don't know how long, but not forever, on that. I would like to say this: a hysterical intersection that goes beyond a sofa dialogue on Twitter, this archipelago, overcoming it, passed it here in the Chamber yesterday. Is that a political proposal? Can this be a political proposal? And can I tell you something? Where Twitter was invented - and I do not underestimate this type of propaganda, I do not underestimate it at all, the entire planetary commander took this position with Twitter in person - but I must tell you, because I have been following three - four election campaigns in the United States of America, and there, beyond this Twitter dialogue, when the political dialogue is taking place, etc., focuses on the main issues, economy, employment. For the time, Obama, I was expecting the show to take place with the extermination of Bin Laden. I'm telling you it was in the first eighteenth or ninth. What are we watching here? We are watching a show of wear, we are watching the Chief of Officerial Response addressing this wing, to us, as if we were the porphyry-born, as if we were the ones who brought us to the birthday present, to us as if we were the descendants of dynasty, gentlemen. It's not in this wing that one third of parliamentarians are in. One third of the Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - and you can do the statistics and you will find them more - are the origins of political families. So we are not the ones to address the Chief of Officership in this way. And can I tell you something? I wouldn't bring her in there and I don't want the conversation to come there. After all, the Greek people decide what kind of democracy they want to have. If he wants to have inherited, he'll have her inherited. But I would like to tell you this: even in the dynasties - if you remember from history in the book - there was the big one and the small one, who has remained in history, who will judge the story, who was the big one and who was the small one from any dynasty. I want to tell you this. Because here, in this Chamber, the SYRIZA Members have been devastated, I think there is a quasi-economy accountability of the Member, not every four years, not every election, but every day. Every day there is this accountability. So in top accountability, we will go before the Greek people, we will contact him, we will tell him under what conditions we have been called upon to perform some tasks, in the midst of bankruptcy, in the midst of major political pressures, if you also want psychological pressure, in the midst of multiple pressures. Here, we observe this, that artificially invoke some internal contradictions of SYRIZA, which were judged in September 2015, to deceive them and keep talking about lies, destroying political dialogue. I want to tell you this. How the defendant perceives the commitment to principles and values demonstrates it not only within politics, but also within everyday life among his citizens and does not show it there, who is, if he takes into account principles and values, who is a salatist of politics will be called upon to see it, where this phenomenon exists and to judge it. And, of course, everyone has the right to change their minds when it comes to top-level agreements, which, in our opinion, are a historic opportunity and a great success for foreign policy. But there is a difference between this and another phenomenon, which I have told you will be judged by the Greek people. Look, because we here, some of us, are not grazing around the sheep, our parents did it where they should do that. What I mean is that, because some so-called 'centre' voters were terrorized by the conduct of the extreme right wing of the New Democracy, which has imposed its law on the leadership of the New Democracy, the New Democracy is now coming to create a communal counterweight based on the morality of Polakis and to discuss going to elections for Polakis and not any matter that is serious and about the life and daily life of the citizens. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this. Politics cannot crumble in football, and when I say "sporting" I mean this detested Greek football. Because from real football you sometimes have some things to learn from, for example, from what happened with Liverpool and Tennam, the lesson comes out, if you want, that under the most difficult conditions, under the most difficult environment, from the most toxic environment, if you think you can win by cutting your own truth. That and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u68	He needs practice too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u69	Especially you will hear that, won't you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u70	As I have already said, the reason is the State Secretary for Culture and Sports, Mr. Army, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. The question that the House has to answer this three-day is why the government must take a vote of confidence and with this vote of confidence to go for the European elections in the next two weeks. The answer to this question also has a history. The starting point was the major government change in January 2015, which had the derailment and failure of the completion of the second programme and on a daily basis had to deal with the empty funds. Those who lived in those days of the government taking over from the government that came out of the elections, what we remember is the day-to-day fight to find liquidity from here and there to meet urgent public obligations. In these circumstances the attempt of the first half of 2015 has evolved. It led to a difficult compromise that we did not hide from the Greek people. In the vote of the Greek people, therefore, the government has had a renewed mandate to be the one to implement the outcome of this effort, which will implement the agreement on the third programme. That was just the beginning of the beginning. In the next three years, despite the continuing catastrophe of the opposition, there has been a constant effort, which has led to something that we first have to confess to ourselves: the mission has been fully achieved, a mission successful. We're completing the program. It was not at all obvious that this would become a reality. We have the clear exit, despite the cries for a credit line, expressed by various circles, economics, and even by recent developments, which lead to the exact part of the International Monetary Fund loan being repaid, this net exit becomes even cleaner, becoming clearer. We have an agreement on the debt, which opens a clear corridor for the country for the next fifteen years and has achieved this in August 2018, at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, it was announced and then implemented the first package of a new social and economic policy. With the 2019 budget, which has been passed and is the law of the state, we have marked the passage from the austerity era to a time when we have built up the financial space, that is, we have an end to austerity and, by continuing to resolve the issues of protection of the first residence and we are bringing to the House for a vote next time measures to alleviate private debt, measures that choke daily the professionals and citizens of that country, the measures that give a solution to this problem. But we didn't stop there alone. The government announced yesterday a new economic package for the use of an additional budget area in the years to come, a package which seals the fact that the country has actually passed in a new era. But that's not all. We have an important deposit leaving the country. We have a significant liquidity reserve that is the guarantee that in the coming years we will not be in the same situation as we were in 2010. And not just that. We have reconnected with the markets, and even under conditions that applied to the days of the cows of the rich. Overall, this is an impressive achievement of this government and of course of course of the Members who supported and supported it, an achievement that goes far beyond the expectations we had when we started trying in September 2015. Going through the issues of culture, what we had to deal with from the outset were major cultural actors at the limits of the collapse, indeed, and an upcoming systemic crisis that everyone saw, but no one did anything for years, in the area of copyright, in the collection and distribution of copyright, resulting from the immunity of a private monopoly. The supervised bodies back on their feet, streamlined their finances, dealt with their debts and now offer important cultural work. I will make a special reference to the Athens Concert Hall, which we have received bankrupt by individuals, and it has required a large-scale public intervention to stand on its feet and be able to continue to exist. I will also refer to two important public bodies, the National Opera and the National Library, which are an important part of the Centre for Culture, which is also operating under the public service, showing in total that the State is part of the solution, is not the problem. As far as copyright is concerned, by the first Minister, we have dared to control GDP, which one has not dared to touch on previous governments. We have passed a new copyright law. We have placed a commissioner in GDPI and when things have arrived in the unprecedented, we have set up the Special Management Agency, which has kept at this stage the entire system for the collection and distribution of intellectual property and has soon been transformed into an independent body of the authors themselves, which was from the outset the government objective. In this effort, unfortunately, in an effort that has not had a particular political object, the Civic Opposition was absent and has not even tabled a proposal. What did he just do? He built a spot communication at the end, after everything had been exposed. This is, of course, a communication cradle, as it evolved along the course, which can rightly be regarded as a candidate for hypocrisy Oscar. Through other cultural issues, I will refer to the single value of the book. Last year we voted here in Parliament to reinstate the European acquis in the field of the book, after its abolition in 2014 by the previous government. And by going to cultural heritage, what we have achieved in previous years is, for example, a change in the relationship between the protection and promotion of cultural heritage and major projects and investments. Remind the Metro of Thessaloniki, the passage from the false dilemma "or metro or ancient" to the great success "and metro and ancient". The ancients now form part of the design of the metro of Thessaloniki and the Venizelos station and elsewhere. To remind the Greek, where despite the communication war - a real communication blitzkrieg we lived in 2016 - and the institutional framework for protecting cultural heritage was completed and the investment was approved by the Ministry of Culture. In fact, it was institutionally shielded through this procedure, because it was done as it should have been. To remind Afantou, the region in Rhodes, where not only the institutional protection framework has been completed, but with excavatory excavations, the landscape has been fully cleared and we really have a model there over the Ministry's cooperation with the investment plan. We continued this in the bill of the PAOK stadium, where you will find powerful clauses for protecting cultural heritage. And then, however, this whole story of the Master Plan Piraeus Port once again proved that the ancients, the protection of antiquities and their emergence can and must be combined with investment and development. It has now been established to everyone that this is the way the country has to follow in the years to come. I would remind you of the law that we recently voted to reorganise the Solidarity Fund, to deal with a timeless pathogen at the Ministry. Let me also remind you that we were the ones who resolved the issues of the Acropolis Museum, abolishing the Creation Agency and ensuring jobs. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Also, I would remind you that for the first time the Acropolis Museum, the largest museum perhaps in the country, contributes financially to the upgrading of the rest of the public museums. All this, together with many but, at the same time, has led to the significant increase in the revenues of the Ministry of Culture from archaeological sites, monuments and museums. We are talking about more than doubled, from 55 million euros in 2014 to more than 110 million euros in 2018 and a new increase in the years ahead. Let me remind you of the establishment of the online ticket in the large archaeological sites and monuments of the country, a request for many years that we did. I would remind you of more recent developments, such as the regeneration of workshops that produce the only worldwide certified copies of the masterpieces of the Greek museums and the upgrading of the sales, which increase the overall image of our country to the world visitor. In closing the office of the Ministry of Culture, I am pleased to announce that we have tabled to the General Secretariat of the Government and we are bringing to Parliament the flagrant amendment that ensures that the biennial ownership and management of archaeological sites and monuments, ending all the catastrophe and the national panic that the Opposition had tried to cultivate in the previous period. This is a constitutional amendment that the government will be voting on in the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, having presented all this work, asks for your vote of confidence, not as a reward, but as a backdrop, as a delegation of responsibility to continue with even greater momentum. Targets? Role transformations everywhere, in the economy, in society, in the political system. And yet another major objective is the radical transformation of the state, which is the great issue of social progress and the deepening of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, here's how we proceed. I will now give the floor to Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. The European Parliamentary Representative from Potami has long called for the floor. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Wolferakis. The second cycle will be closed with speeches by Mr. Nyfoudis, Mr. Saridis and Mr. Panagoulis. Mr Dendias will be given the floor as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and will be followed, before we enter - Mr Hatzidakis, to inform you - in the third cycle, which is Mrs Vanja, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Karastasis, Mr Papatheodorou and Mr Psychogios, the first five, with the intervention of the Minister of Education. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, the JRC does not give a vote of confidence to the government, not because it has failed, but rather because it has succeeded. That is why it extracts the credits of the markets, of the rating houses - 'globes' - you once called them the SYRIZA - the European Union, the International Monetary Fund. Because it is for Mrs Merkel and Mrs Lagard the successful example. Because it receives the credit of NATO, the United States, the devilishly good Mr Trump and Piat, but also of Israelis who bleed the Palestinians. The anointed people tell us: "Tell me your friends, tell you who you are" and you have for friends all those who oppose peoples who break their rights in the name of ensuring capitalist profit. You claim to be a government that you are struggling for many. But you pull a flash to the left and turn right. Your economic development, capitalist development, that is, it is the one that breaks the rights of the working class and satisfys the people's needs, because it is the prerequisite to break every working right. And you say, on the other hand, that you want to restore the job, regain the job. In fact, who are you laughing at, gentlemen of the government, when there is - today is the 'RISOPASTIS' - a new European Union directive to strengthen the labour jungle? Transparency and predictable labour limit. So what does this directive do? This directive of the European Union generalises flexible labour relations, zero-hour contracts, contract workers, slave trade offices. It lets the employer be completely free to apply the anti-gauge. Of course, the so-called protection of workers is an absolute mockery, because European directives are mandatory for the Member States. You are voting together, as you, the New Democracy and the PASOK are voting together, even the far-right, 90% of the European Union's decisions. You are increasingly concentrating production and the market in less and less hands and monopolizing it. You are motivated by scandalous, developmental and tax incentives to big capital. And you keep giving. You are forming new fields of action of capital through privatisation. So the result of this development is not satisfying the people's needs, but at the same time even greater expansion of the lane of social inequalities, because wealth is concentrated in less and less hands, and on the contrary, those who live in conditions of either total or relative impoverishment are increasingly growing. This is your fair development, that is, bleeding the workers to win the bosses. And the relief measures, as you call them, are nothing but the alibi to the anti-popular class policy you are implementing. It is precisely because you want to legitimize this policy in the people's conscience. With these relief measures, as you call them, you have multiple targets: on the one hand, you want the people, workers and youth to live with the little, with the crumbs, to reduce the demands, to encourage the radicalisation of consciences. You also want to pursue the manipulation of the movement, that is to say to cover the fact that you are giving other scandalous privileges to big capital and that anti-Hallian policy will continue until at least 2060, because until then there must be the bloody primary surpluses. Because the question is who pays for these surpluses and where do these surpluses come from, as you call them? And the people are the people, they are the workers, they are the people. With your policy, in fact, you are making a redistribution. What are you redistributing? You're redistributing poverty. Of the less poor, you give the most poor. On the other hand, you are even more claiming on the monopolistic groups, wealth, supporting these measures with the needs of capital, for example, the further grant of insurance contributions for young workers, the reduction of the tax rates for capital, the 50% increase in depreciation for capital. In other words, it pays the working class and the people, whom you are taking into account in taxation, to outlaw business groups and capital scandalally. Of course, in the constitutional review neither did you, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, dare anything about the scandalous privileges of shipowners. You're all stubborn. Your policy is, therefore, a policy that serves the interests of capital, the planning of the urban order on geostrategic upgrading of our country and which involves Greece increasingly in the US planning. You have become the signifiers of American and imperialist designs in the region. And, of course, the worries between SYRIZA, the New Democracy and the PASOK do nothing but cover up your agreement in the policy that is being implemented. The third Memorandum was adopted together. The current government and its two previous Memorandums were legitimised by its implementing laws. Together you support the interests of business groups with nails and teeth. Together in the European Union, you are voting for 90% of European Directives. You jointly accept NATO plans. Besides, you are trying to cover up behind them with scandalology and scandals. But you want to hide to the people that scandals are a child of the system. The uterus that reproduces the scandals is precisely the symptom of economic power with political power. And of course, you want to disorientate the world, to form a false diaphragm, because in essence you agree, to encroach on popular discontent and on popular conscience. And, of course, the acceptance of less evil does nothing but load more and more burdens on the people's backs. This experience is now experience of decades. Because it has always been the logic of less evil that has helped to load more burdens on the people. So the single attack on the working class and our people must be a uniform response. Because one is the enemy of the people and of the working class: the monopolies, capitalists and the system that shields their interests, namely the capitalist system. So it must be made clear today - and this is necessary - in front of and in the pre-election period, the adversary awe, what can go against these policies - and goes against them - that is, the JRC, with a strong JRC everywhere: in the European elections, in the regional elections and in the municipal elections. Because that's how we might break fascism. Today, this is May 9th, the day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples. Only the JRC has historically fought fascism in our country and is fighting it today effectively so that the working class and youth can throw the fascist into the sewers of history. Because that's where they deserve it. Because the JRC is against the capitalist system, it fights it and it fights it. Because Golden Dawn is a child of the capitalist system that you excite and defend.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Karathanasopou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Two choices are in front of the people: Or he will continue to walk the path that is increasingly burdening him and making the future his and the youth black or he will go to the counterattack, seeking radical changes in the place and society so that we and our children can live better. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u76	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Lyberakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Today, 9 May is Europe's Day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u78	The anti-fascist victory, not Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u79	...the anti-fascist victory and Europe's Day. So May 9th is another anniversary. On 9 May 2010, the International Monetary Fund finally approved the loan contract and the memorandum was born. It was approved after great opposition from Brazil, I would like to remind you of the poorest countries. We are counting today, nine years from the crisis. We have three years for each Memorandum. It's three memos. But we also have a birthday on the river. We have been here for about three days, since we have had, in a way, grubbing up parliamentary work for three months and something. I myself speak again from this Step after about three and a half years of absence, having lost the third memorandum and something else. But I am talking again after three and a few years of doing things that we do not discuss in this Chamber. In addition, we are three weeks away from European elections, third parties from the start of the crisis. We are all in agreement that in these European elections the future of Europe, this agency, thanks to which we have had much better luck than Argentina and Venezuela and other countries which have ceased to go bankrupt. At such a juncture, on such an anniversary, the Greeks and Greeks would expect us to consider three issues: firstly, why did what happened? Second, how are we going to walk from here? Thirdly and more importantly, how do we affect Europe, if we want it to continue to exist, if the first two issues do not come to us, as we wanted them to. Indeed, in plenary we have been discussing for three days, today is the second. But what are we talking about? For Mr. Polakis? To regain confidence in a government he has - doesn't he have three months left? You know, in university exams, we teachers have learned to read behind the indebtedness and mainly the escapades of students and students, and when the question of pronunciation is clear, the experienced teacher can always understand the true view of the student who answers, even if she writes instead. So as I am also a university, but above all because I am Potami, a party that tells truths only, I will try to make an analysis of the positions of the two representatives of the two parties, as reflected in the positions we have heard in this Chamber, and I will try to put out cries and crowns, to explain what others say, and to conclude with what we in the Potami. The real and existential problem, however, is: Why did we happen to live in nine years of crisis and what should we do to avoid it happening again in the future? There are two worlds that are offered to us in high-strength. First, the New Democracy world. According to New Democracy, the problem appears to be identified in my neighbor, Mr Polakis, and in the fact that the government wing has turned into a pit. In paraphrasing the position of Antipoliticism, the solution to the existential problem of how to go in the future to avoid the same suffering to do so for the most part, the answer is simple: A change of guard in the chairs, the bad ones to come. But I have two comments to make. The first is that the phenomenon of political inadmissibility, of 'pollism', if you like, is not new. And I would like to remind the Chamber of the late Evangelos Giannopoulos. And he was very renowned in his professional space and he had undertaken to express with his own idiom what he thought was the voice of the people. Indeed, defamation of political controversy is something that should concern us, but political dilemmas are not solved by the adoption of good ways, despite the fact that good ways help to reach agreement where the debate has substance. We believe that the problem lies in what is said, what is said and what is not proposed. In other words, the problem lies in the contents of politics, not in the wrapping. And here is the second point. 'pollution' is rightly angered and rightly repelled, but it is also used as a pretext to avoid real exchange of views. It conceals - I fear - poverty and a lack of mood for discussion on issues of the future. I have to say with grief that the cultivated cultivation of anger for a manoeuvre, even when it is repeated and freaky, is a very bad policy adviser. We saw where the anger of the indignants took us, but also earlier the anger of the Zapea. Second, it's the world at SYRIZA. SYRIZA doesn't want to talk about people. But he wants to say that it's all the others' fault. Of course I understand that he has a difficulty, because he is now proud of everything he has denounced in his first parliamentary term. It has fortunately adopted these with confidence and enthusiasm in the latter. All that's been kept over time is the labels that slander opponents. And these words 'neo-liberal' and 'neo-liberalism' are an empty shirt, an Eleni, because it actually never hires a particular content, not that it does not exist, but that we use it in the wrong way. And when we use them without object, we cancel the cases that would be the case. So he screams labels, slanders and seeks to fill an empty policy box, but he can't give policy contents, putting a very nice red ribbon. The wrapping is important, but the content is more important. So the two twinks of bi-groupism, only three weeks before the big decision for Europe, are concerned to convince us that others are worse. A mere mathematical property, however, creates a political problem. Three is a single number. The bad guy who's going and the good guy who's coming has played since 2009. Even if we don't remember why, he's played and played before, and he's left us standing. That is why, instead of talking about the substance, we are being served by another poll, a move which, as a response, is out of the question. Fortunately, it is out of the question, because if Europe's leadership were to come up with a reflection of this level, I fear that there would be no one to save us the next time we needed him. Third, I come to the world on the river. Potami, as you may know, is made up of people living in society who have our eyes and ears open and when the attention of others is directed at chairs and power, ours is directed outwards, in the changing world, in Europe that is changing. We understand that society wants to hear something about the issue at issue, the Europe we want. That is why we are talking, and as strong as we can, so that we can hear above all the fuss that everyone else is doing. But instead of that, our power parties are obliging us to answer unrelated questions. If we have confidence in Mr. Polakis, one or all of us ask if we have confidence in the government of SYRIZA, the other one tells us. In the question that has been raised in this Chamber today, I will try to judge the context. We have a political system, government and opposition, which really conspires not to have a substantial debate on Europe, the institution on which our future depends. And only for this act of silence, we on the river have no confidence in this government. Unfortunately, however, this question avoids it and the Census trying to convince itself that a change of guard in the government will respond to the existential issue and does not need to resolve other internal contradictions, poisonous. So if the same question were to be asked by the other side, our answer would again be the same. So I come to the question which we should be discussing. How are we going to go from now on? We, you know, on the river, have a very clear line of cruising. We in the Potami are looking for ways to build a better tomorrow, we are not interested in getting tired of finding ways to vomit a worse yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u80	Although it is not customary for two colleagues from the same party to speak from each other, it is now for Mr Nyfoudis to speak for himself, so that we do not deprive him of it. It will not be repeated another time. Here, Mr. Nyfoudes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that I now have the opportunity to continue fighting for the good of the country and behind Parliament's headquarters. I am pleased to say that I have also been honoured by my participation in the River Parliamentary Group since yesterday. Today we are discussing New Democracy's motion of censure on the face of Mr Polakis, a motion of censure which the government has artificially turned into a vote of confidence. Why did he do that? But it's obvious. Clearly there was a risk of a leak of Members from the Group's parliamentary group. I am sure that a number of SYRIZA MPs would be reluctant, and would not accept the practice of Polakis, a minister who prefers to engage in violent and there conflicts, while his ministry is losing millions, as was the case in the case of the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to deal with intra-Holy infections in the hospitals of the ESS. It is also unprecedented for Greek data, perhaps even globally, that the Minister for Health should attack candidate MEPs, using as a reproach on his face the fact that he is a disabled person. The institutional diversion I would say is not a matter between Mr Polakis and Mr Kymbouropoulos. It's an institutional issue. It would be a cause for resignation in any other European country by a Minister - and indeed a Minister for Health - to be attacked by our whole group of fellow citizens. I'd expect an apology, even decayed. But let's go to New Democracy too. Sixteen days before the European elections and instead of discussing the problems of the European Union, the criticality of the forthcoming European elections, the future of our country, but also of the entire European structure, instead of discussing the phenomenon of nationalism, Euroscepticism, the rise of the extreme right, rather than being exemplified by the mistakes of Brexit and our British friends, what are we doing? It chooses New Democracy to use European elections as a communication tool to win, as it considers or rather as it deceives itself, election benefits, because of course it is not the first time that Mr Polakis' behaviour raises a point of motion of censure on his face, but it is another episode of "polakia", of the well-known bad-looking show. It is therefore clear that the motion of censure now has a purely electoral nature. Of course, on the other hand, SYRIZA, who admittedly has a talent in disorientating public opinion, who is not at all interested in the people who will be chosen as MEPs, and who only cares for him is to reduce the waste of the polls, did not fall into the light of the New Democracy. It changed the agenda in a familiar way. He was ready and offered it a simple package of announcements and measures. It is therefore announcing a series of measures that will actually give breath to many families, which will somewhat ease the difficulties experienced by many of our fellow citizens in everyday life in their efforts for decent living. We all realize that. It is a package of measures, however, which, according to the SYRIZA's tactics, are used as bait for the citizens, as if the citizens did not understand that this was an election boot. There are two thoughts, which I do not know which is the worst: there was this possibility of benefits from the government and they kept them in order to be elected, because we understand what this means to the citizens, or what this means to the citizens, or was not planned and without any planning, the government provides benefits that have not even been costed and have not even calculated their financial impact with a risk of paying them next to the future. At least, anyway, the measures are in the right direction, in the direction of restoring the economy to normality, with measures to support both employment and entrepreneurship, which will facilitate the daily lives of many of our fellow citizens. But do you really believe that you will in this way intercept the Greek people's vote for two weeks just before the elections? The world is not naive. He understands. The world expects us to be sincere now, truths only and above all understand the agony of government and counterpopulation to create those conditions that will allow each side separately to work on the results of the polls during the beam. For me, who I am a Member of Parliament for a few days or, in fact, a few days' time, things are simple, as I certainly just hope it will be for every citizen who will vote and who will have to vote. This is the great stake of all of us, the reduction of abstention and the participation of citizens in the top event of the polling of the European elections. In the next elections, I hope that the Greeks' voting process will be simplified, that the voice of those who have not left the country will be heard, but that as a result of the policy of the last twenty years. They left because they don't find a job, because the situation in the country has become unbearable. I fully understand the tactics of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, and as a clear choice of logic, the voice of the river. Potami is perhaps the only party that has chosen its candidate MEPs on the basis of their ability to offer Europe and to better support our country's interests in the European Parliament. He did not choose celebrities on television, but personalities that everyone has in his area. I call on my fellow citizens to see the curriculum vitae of the candidates of all parties, even at random, and then choose their representatives for Europe. I call on my fellow citizens to be informed of the European elections, to read. We, Potami, with a specific agenda of twenty-seven plus one, know the Europe we want, the Europe we are celebrating today, the Europe of citizens, the rights, the protection of freedom and progress. A European regeneration, a regeneration we all need. Obviously, and we will not trust the current SYRIZA government. Obviously, and I will call on my fellow citizens to see clearly, to put before the voice of reason, not to give in to the sirens on the right and on the left, and to choose consciously to support the river in the forthcoming European elections. Responsibly choose the useful and not the popular ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u82	You were the most disciplined, though. Mr. Panagulis has the floor. Then Mr. Dendias will speak and then Mr. Gabroglou will speak. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. The motion of censure on the Minister of Health was turned into a proposal of confidence in the Government. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Because a dozen SYRIZA MPs who had dignity came out and condemned this inappropriate phrase of the Minister of Health for a fellow man with disabilities, Mr Kyburopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, in the four years in power you have made the art complex, science. You collaborated with all the "buds", with the Petsite, with the Kalogris and all those who, when the darkness fell, entered through the back door of Maximus. Really, what happened to that famous date you booked and with what right? - Mr. Kalogerica and Mr. Marinakis? And because Mr. Marinakis didn't do your favors, you sent Mr. Kalogerica to ask him for 20 million. From that point on, Mr. Marinakis has become a bad man. But when Mr Marinakis was helping you in a variety of ways, he was good. That's the reality. I'm returning you to the 2012 elections etc. Why has anyone so far not objected to what happened on this date? Trained proof of the hundreds of lies you have told, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is this book, the "Black Bible of shame". This book unravels you every day. What you promised was the opposite. What you have denounced and achieved incomprehensible by doing a daily act - I repeat - the complexity, opacity, impunity, immunity, facilities and services, of course with undoubted. You've reduced the dreams of millions of Greeks, gentlemen. The hopes of the Greek people have been disproved in the worst way. Yesterday, the Prime Minister was panicked by the leaking photo. It is not bad, ladies and gentlemen, - I have the courage to say it - for the Prime Minister to take a cruise, whether paid or free of charge. But it is bad, ladies and gentlemen, that when hundreds of citizens were in hospitals and in intensive hospitals, the Prime Minister, instead of having taken a tent and settled in Matti to solve the problems of those inhabited, took the hen and took his holidays, when the TVs every day, the newspapers announced new people dead. And twice went to Matty, the Prime Minister, before leaving for the cruise like the thief at 7:00 in the morning. And you will remember a stigma he had with a lady who had asked him for this grand that they promised to give and said to the lady: 'If we had given it to you, you would have eaten it'. I want to see, gentlemen, when other photos come out of this cruise...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u84	You know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u85	I know something? I don't know anything. Whatever you know, Doctor, I know. Every day for four years you stole the Greek wallet and come now and give him the change. It reminds me, ladies and gentlemen, that joke with Hodja, which closed into the poor man's house all the animals and when the poor man started and said, "What's going on, Hodja?" he said, "Okay, I'll release your house" and take off the chicken. You have left nothing standing, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u86	This is a disgrace now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u87	The National Health System has dismantled it, and instead of Mr Paulakis dealing with it, he's dealing with anything else. You brought the ranch back to the hospitals. When you get sick, you have to take the sheet and the pillow to go to the hospital. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u88	Fact!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u89	You've turned the educational system of the country into a lasting laboratory animal. Development and investment, of course, have disappeared. The only growth and investment is from some desperate Greeks who collect 10,000, 20,000 euros to set up a cafeteria or a swab shop, which, of course, after six months, is also a year closed. Try again a few days before the elections on May 26th, as my friend and colleague, Mr. Loverdos, said, seventeen days and one is left, because I see that every day he says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u90	Sixteen and one!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u91	Sixteen and one, excuse me! Not only did you succeed, but popular anger will be expressed in the ballots of municipal, regional and European elections! And what you are doing about a progressive party, let go of these and stop talking about the struggles of the people! What progressive party? Your party has been filled with buds, paratroopers, ashes - that is the reality! - to have them fifty-five of a Member of Parliament! Buffeters, paratroopers... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In a minute, Mr President. You've turned ERT into RISEN of the junta!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u92	Shame on you to say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Mada, don't talk! I am four years of MP and I have not been taken out once by ERT because they have called from Maximos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u94	Finish, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, I will be a minute. And another thing: Who gives you the right to make a national hero Kufondina? I emotionally, if he had shown remorse, I would have been one of those who would have told him to be given permission. Protect freshwater rebels such as Ruvikon. Ladies and gentlemen, from the 'go back'. Mrs Merkel, you have become Mrs Merkel's'sponsor'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Panagoulis, before you came down, would you agree to delete the "YEN of the junta"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u97	No, the junta's YENS, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u98	Okay, you don't want to. I made a move if and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u99	I will say that later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u100	So the second cycle is over and, as I said before, before entering the third cycle, the reason will be for Mr. Dendias as Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy and immediately thereafter Mr. Gavroglou as Minister of Education. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the necessary European note. Today is Europe's Day. It is also the day of Berlin's occupation, of the fall of Nazi Berlin. I have to say as a general remark that it is worth wondering that the Golden Dawn did not ask for a minute silence in memory of Adolf Hitler today. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we here today? Why are we talking about giving or not giving the government a vote of confidence? First of all, this did not happen at the choice of the New Democracy. We didn't ask for that. We have tabled a concrete motion of censure, distrust against the Deputy Minister for Health on a specific basis, his unacceptable position regarding a specific candidate for a New Democracy MEP, a disabled person and the general attack he expressed as a disgrace to our fellow citizens with disabilities. The government has chosen, in order to confuse things, to use the procedure for the vote of confidence to the government, by mixing Articles 141 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure - in our view completely wrong - using the political precedent of Kostas Karamanlis, which was completely disparate and thus not giving the opportunity to the National Parliament, to Members from all the wings - I must say - to condemn this inappropriate attack. The Prime Minister did not do so either because he respects the National Parliament and why he wanted to use this, the most democratic, the most legitimate step, to announce a European programme or its own programme for the country's economic progress in the future. In fact, on the contrary - it turns out to be a pretext - it ran to Zappeion last day to announce there what he thought in the form of allowances and reductions would change the agenda, that things would change. He did not have the institutional decency to come and say that, to announce this in the Greek Parliament. And he did a little more than that, ladies and gentlemen. He got the characters involved, acted on the one hand as Prime Minister and, on the other, as head of SYRIZA's election campaign. And so he announced measures for 2019, which are part of the role of Prime Minister of the country - and of course, it should have been done here, by the Greek Parliament, but we talked about the non-institutional conception - and, on the other hand, he announced measures for 2020, 2021 and 2022, which concern future governments and which, of course, do not fall under the role of Prime Minister, but are election measures, the party leader announces them during the election campaign and depends on society if he approves them or does not approve them by voting in elections. These discriminations, clear to the average man, manifested in the political scene, to Mr Tsipras, to the Prime Minister of the country, are not of great importance. And he proved to us yesterday and in his speech here, ladies and gentlemen, that they are governed by a profound manicheism, a bizarre conception of vertical and absolute separation between some imaginary good and some imaginary evil. He identifys himself and his party with the good and corresponding demonizes all his political opponents as something by definition evil. What SYRIZA does, ladies and gentlemen, is by definition good or in any case forgiven for some reasons. Do we exaggerate people with disabilities? It's because of some character. But it's not bad. It's a peculiarity. On the contrary, does anyone express a different view of SYRIZA? Oh, no. That's handy. It's bad. You're a capital tool. You're an enemy of popular interests. You're a deeply reactionary instrument. Ladies and gentlemen, such a conception first is a deeply anti-European concept. It strengthens the way in which democracy and the rule of law operate. Democracy in every country and also in the European project - because for European elections we are going in the next sixteen plus one day, as the honourable Member said before - was not based on manicism, on the battle of good with evil within the system, but by definition it has chosen the way in which the absolutely conflicting forces should be consulted so that we can all go forward together. The original Coal and Steel Community was the placement in a common fund of war organs, so that we never return to war again. In the face of this European project, therefore, the Prime Minister of a small democracy cannot and cannot be placed in the Chamber of the National Parliament. It strengthens the rule of law and strengthens the country's European participation. And in listening to yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I understood very well - unfortunately for a very long time - the meaning of the phrase spoken by a executive - the word'stopper' in introductory terms - to the SYRIZA last year or before 'we're checking the government, but we have not taken the power' because power is the absolute control of the state, beyond the limits of the executive power. Ladies and gentlemen, to whom is it not obvious, to whom is it not clear in this Chamber, regardless of political position, regardless of party membership, if it is to be an honest man with a clear look, to try to influence justice by the government in the most absolute way? It is used - and will remain in the Greek vocabulary - the word 'working', thankfully against the great majority of Greek judges who will never accept such an effort. Who is not aware of the full, festive formulated, without any hope, of any institutional attempt to control the independent authorities? Who is he fleeing from? What is the criterion by which the government proposes and seeks to serve the independent authorities? What has the government allowed it to claim to defend their independence? Ladies and gentlemen, all this shows exactly what I have said to you, a maniac concept, which is deeply undemocratic and deeply dangerous and deeply anti-European and deeply disturbing and completely rejected. And this must be seen in the electorate in the face of the European elections. And if we go to the level of economic policy, which is the point at which the Prime Minister claims to have taken the country out of the crisis, that he was able to elect the functioning of the system, how much does that perception stand in the common criticism and the reason - in the ancient Greek sense of logic - of average humanity, ladies and gentlemen? What have we noticed as an economic policy of this government, in addition to the country's Memorandum of Obligations, which, let us put them half a minute aside to discuss between us honest and Greek? What is the Greek added value to the monumental obligations of the country that this government has brought? First of all, has Mr Tsakalotos and dozens of other ministers confessed to it as a major means of overtaxing everything? Is it or isn't it? In the Prime Minister's earlier announcements, if you see the list of taxes that SYRIZA and ANELs - then, no - have imposed, is it not partly mitigating the results that this government itself has imposed on Greek citizens, one, every word of them? What did the government who is not part of what the government itself has taken back? Is taxation recommended, then, that part of the economic policy of the 21st century be subsidized for the country, and this comes seriously from the Prime Minister of the country to say it here and proud? How does he try to justify it? What is the only veil he puts, the fig sheet against this incomprehensible, if you like, in terms of economic behaviour? That he's on the side of the good, that he represents the good, that he cares about the many. Ladies and gentlemen, beyond the stereotypes of politics, how much does this stand for criticism? Tell me honestly how much he can stand criticism. So what does the Prime Minister want to tell us? That there is a good party, from good, open-hearted, honest people who love little children, love workers, love their fellow citizens, and across from them there are Parliamentary groups like New Democracy with bad people who want to cut pensions, who want to limit allowances, who want not to have children's kindergartens? Is that the Marxist analysis that the Prime Minister invokes? Is that what she's coming to tell us in this room? Is that his financial model? Is that the model going to go to the elections? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Precisely because this model does not allow him to go to the elections, it passes Scandalology. He has to dress it up somehow. As the medicine has a little sugar to swallow, all this incredibly simple, incredibly unscientific, undemocratic framework must be covered with something to make it conspicuous by a common opinion that has gone through a crisis of nine years and is extremely weighed up. And here is the scandalism and, of course, unilaterally against the political opponents, because the residents of the Great Maximos are not a matter for the Prime Minister to answer. Private aircraft travel is not a matter for the Prime Minister to answer. He doesn't even want to answer. When one asks him a question, that's what the Prime Minister calls 'hybris'. But when he enslaves himself, even in the way of analysis, parties whole, institutional, decades of marches, this is simply a "reading of reality". Ladies and gentlemen, we, the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, believe as a basic good, completely acquired in the context of the crisis, the absolute need for openness towards the Greek citizens. This election campaign will be held ahead of the European and regional elections. That is how we will go, and that is what we will formulate. We will leave to the Prime Minister the way we have been analysing this yesterday in this Chamber and we will also give him the political model of the Deputy Minister for Health, which he accepted and which he seems to characterize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the American College. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As I said, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will now take the floor, Mr Gavroglou. The third cycle will begin with Mrs. Vranja, Mr. Hadjidakis, Mr. Karanastasis and Mr. Papatheodorou. He's got a problem on his way, if he hasn't come, we'll go to Mr. Psychoyo and then Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos. Four colleagues will speak and one Minister, because they are eleven ministers for today. There is no way that all the Members will not be able to speak until tomorrow. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I will try during my speech to describe the features of our education project, a project that has started immediately since the January 2015 elections, but I would like to make a few comments about what we have been hearing in recent days and especially about what we are hearing from the Opposition. I think it is of great interest to see exactly what the positions of counterpopulation are. I say that tensions, personal comments, etc. are legal. Are there, however, if we are to send out these positions, is there any substance? I think it's of great interest to see that there's abusive rhetoric to hide positions. Because there are positions, but these positions must not be understood by the Greek society. The Greek society must focus during the opposition on a rhetoric that builds a new reality. Fifteen days ago we passed a bill on higher education, high school, etc. I have made a list of hybrid attacks that have been used in this Chamber and have been reproduced in all the relevant newspapers and media. Head of the frequency of these attacks comes the word 'Neroon'. Nero. He who burns, destroys, which limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u104	It's essential, I'm saying it's about the order of the thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u105	Neron Gabroglou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u106	Nero is essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u107	Listen, I think you have a much better sense of language, but on this you're falling out. Attacking determination, say it as you like. The amorphic, the destroyer. These have been heard and reproduced the next day. ‘It makes students experimental animals’. Well, "hazardous" is almost something positive all over the case. That is why, when such rhetoric is intensified, it is not made by personal maliciousness, it is not done by personal empathy, it is done by a very structured effort - and it is your effort - to create a reality that just hides these positions. And these positions are not that they do not exist again, it is that you are afraid that society will not understand them. And now we have a lot of criteria, we have a lot of evidence. Is it not what we were three and three and a half years ago when we said 'What if it is so, is it any other way, do people not know'? etc. Compulsory two-year pre-school education. For sixty a year, a request from our teachers and society. Did we vote for it? We voted for it. Did we hear the millions against him? We heard them. The new architecture of universities, which began in August 2017 and that the Civic Opposition along with the other parties began the lamentation of postgraduates that will disappear and of the new administrations' selection system, where everyone will be fighting with everyone else. Three and a half years later, in fact, I fell out of my assessment. For the first time, postgraduate studies were rationalized. For the first time in all postgraduate courses - and what is available for tuition fees - there is the possibility for children to go without tuition to up to 30% of importers. Postgraduate courses increased without tuition, etc. And the democracies with the new elections are going well. Don't ask me, ask those who were elected and cooperate in a perfect way. We're setting up new departments. What was that? They say we're making bargains with a lot of people. You know, there is a subject called'science and its progress'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u108	As far as the cat goes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u109	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u110	Nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u111	Not if you have the courage, tell me exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u112	As far as the cat goes, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u113	As far as the cat goes! You know, that's what I'm saying. As the cat presses, there is a subject called "Science and progress". This must also be reflected in our institutions. Finally, you also need to modernise yourself and you need to understand that these must also be reflected in our institutions. With regard to TEIs, lamentation of technological education. Where'd you get it, how much you blow it in the air, etc. Who, us? We or you, who've been playing with the TEI for so many years? Do you remember it or don't you remember it? Fortunately they were various educators of different electoral beliefs and kept them on their feet. Because they were teachers. They were social workers in education. And also, for the TEIs, you were forced there to say what your view is. The establishment, he says, of universities of applied sciences. Decades of the '60s, it's not '70s, it's over. It's over throughout Europe. The scientific research is over, because now it is not the 19th century old and the beginning of the 20th century, "Theory and applications of the theory". It's another process, it's over. They're old-fashioned, preservative. The two-year curriculum. For the first time, the Greek university has the possibility of having two years of study courses to which graduates of PAAL will be able to receive professional education with European qualifications. Finally, ESDP children should also have this possibility of upgraded vocational training. But the top point of hypocrisy - the top of hypocrisy! - It's the Third High School thing. It has haird our tongue to ask a question and answer not to take. Are we a country we're proud of in high school? Are we a country that has a 3rd grade? That is a national problem. We're a country that doesn't have a third grade. We are a country in which the day-to-day life of the Third High School cancels the teachers, who with huge sacrifices try to hold her in their hand. And the Third High School and the perception of a society that has set its hopes, so that children can study in an institution outside the public school, this as a carcinoma now eats the Second High School. We must therefore agree on the problem and disagree as much as you want with the solution to the problem, but agree on the problem. So long I hear, I read this simple question: “Do we have or do we have a third grade? Do we have to be a country where there's a third grade, yes or no? Should children be in school for the university or should they not be in school for the university?" It's an answer. Why do you avoid giving us this answer? What we are saying is that the great national bet is not just the government, not just the Opposition, and not just the politicians here, because it is a matter for society itself to change. We have to be able to believe in public school again. To believe that the public school and our teachers have all our facilities to prepare our children for universities. And that's what we do with our law. This law is a law that guarantees few lessons, few lessons, many hours, as it is in many other parts of the world, so that we do not think that we are discovering America, as they say, from the outset. Of course, we are proposing a way of introducing the existing system, the examinations and, as far as possible, disrupting the existing system, but for the first time, allowing free access to universities. And you voted against that. But you also voted against something else. Six months ago we brought a bill for our support structures in our schools. The support structures so far have been cognitive, that is, you said that some teachers, some schools aren't doing well, they have some other problems, but we're actually going to focus on making the lesson more effective. The problems in our schools are mainly social. We have to deal with the problem of youth multiples. A piece of it, obviously, is also the cognitive. Very important at school, but it's not the only one. That's why we built multidisciplinary structures, with psychologists, with social workers, with training coordinators, so that they can get to know how these schools will be supported. That is why we founded the National Educational Training Centre to use both the know-how and technology of the Greek Open University. I say all this because it is very important to understand that there are two different political cultures. The one which says 'planning and proposing'. I'm planning: it's not common in our country. You also saw the previous day with the press conference and yesterday with the speech of the Prime Minister that what has emerged was this long-term planning, which has already been made fun of by all of us since the summer of 2015 and you said "you will not make all this possible, etc.." And yet the time came, and that's where we did the same. We planned from 2015 in front of - back, with many weaknesses, first with my own. Secondary things. There's a plan. Do you want to tell us your positions in this plan, or do you want to hide behind this incredible rhetoric, which develops as long as things turn around in a way that wants to hide positions, causing a new reality? Of course, unlikely, but very honest. Yesterday he opened the system of applications for the four and a half thousand appointments that are for the special treatment, and in two months it will be the equivalent for the general treatment. We'd heard it wasn't gonna happen, and so on. But it's done. Now applications are coming in, aren't they? There's money in the budget and it goes by saying. Yesterday he opened this system and yesterday Mr Mitsotakis - and I welcome that - revealed his main position on this issue. It says 'we are not in favour of appointments'. I don't know if you heard it, this is where the man said it. We must applaud this and we must applaud it, because this has not been hidden behind a rhetoric to confuse the world. It's called. I'm not saying what he used to do, and he kicked out people that we hired back, and so on. I say what he says now, that the public, if you want to know, has enormous needs. Don't go into the misery that people sit in public and don't work, etc. The public has needs. Universities also need administrative posts and not just teachers. So we say yesterday was the first day. Fifteen thousand appointments in three years. The four and a half will take place in 2019, as you well know the ten and a half thousand that we will publish in two months is for 2020 and 2021. Five hundred new university membership posts. So this is our plan that unfolds, which finds wide consensus. It is a project that is also a bet for the future - because nothing is in the automatic - and it is a project that we are now completing institutional intervention and that, in the next four years, we will put the quality issues from pre-school to doctoral times on the table in an absolutely aggressive manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Loverdo, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u116	I request the floor for two minutes under the Rules of Procedure to react to the position of the previous Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u117	Under the Rules of Procedure, you are not asking completely, but, anyway, because we have gone quite well, I give you three minutes, but not...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u118	It's a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u119	Good. I give you three minutes, but we don't get a reaction, and we get out half an hour. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, in this debate on Parliament's confidence in the government of each Minister, as the previous Minister has done, he must refer to his issues, beyond general policies. In this sense, there are no personal things here after this intervention or any other matter. When, instead of presenting a project, according to each minister's perspective, there is a frustration about how well everything is going and because it has been mentioned in a special way, I would like to address a phrase of criticism and a question. The question comes first. Tell us: Since everything is so well and so much effort has been made to replace the Latin you have done with Sociology, when do you intend to determine the matter of examination - I do not say the teacher - and the booklet when do you intend to take it away from the children who, in a year of time from today, have given tests, since everything has been done perfectly? The phrase of my criticism - and I conclude - is this: you have received a problem - we are all saying it - in relation to the orientation of children in high school, which was an examination, and you have renounced it. You did the high school schools, because no student and no student are involved in anything more than four courses or how much it is that he wants to teach. That's what you did, and you did it consciously. Why did you do it consciously? For you have been relieved for voters' reasons, since the elections now take over all the thirteenths, all those who paid attention to the four main lessons they were interested in in their examinations, but they were 'working' - the word, Minister, and the rest. You erased everything and did high school what? A permanent three-year course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes to answer the question asked by Mr. Lovers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u122	Thank you for giving me the floor without asking, Mr President. Mr. Loverdo, despite your stay at the Ministry of Education, you don't remember what we received. Apparently, you forgot. This is a good feature of the human brain, because it forgets the tragedies it has experienced. You handed us schools starting on paper in September and really in October. These schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u123	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u124	Leave, Mr. Loverdo, please. It is not a personal matter, and I did not say that I am opening it up to schools, but that on SYRIZA they are opening schools on time, which should not even be commenting on, which should be a regularity of self-evident nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u125	Tell your predecessors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u126	We received half the schools without a building permit - you know, I hope - or on an NATURA campus area. That's what we received, and that's what we've arranged, too, I want you to know. That's the first. Secondly, with regard to the Latin you say, look, we did not abolish Latin. We didn't remove them. Latin is a chosen class in High School III. Anyone who wants to study Latin, glorious glorious field, because there are many cognitive fields that Latin do not need. As for this lamentation about what is going on in classical studies, or those who have this lamentation do not know what the classical studies or the whole subject of classical studies have it around the Latin issue, which we have also not abolished. Thirdly - and finally - it is the issue you raised about care. I would ask you, like all my colleagues, not to have this easy answer to something you may not understand. In all parts of the world, the Third High School is an intermediate grade. It is between the completion of the Circular and the beginning of the University. Do you know any country where it isn't? You don't know her. But here, just to maintain the paradox, just because you want to degrade the public school, you want to cancel with all that noise in the class classes that are held by the Third High School, the Third High School, and therefore cancel High School, so cancel High School. We're not going that way. He'll regain his credibility in public school and children and their families will understand our proposal for High School III. Unless you have another proposal. We're open to talk about it. But for a year and a half we have been discussing this desert, and we have not had any other proposal. However, we are determined to defend the public school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Gabroglou, you did not answer the question when you would give the book with the matter examined in Sociology, if I understood correctly. That was Mr. Loverd's main question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u128	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Loverdou was a lot of questions together. You're right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u130	No, that was the basic one, and that's why I gave you the floor, without even asking me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u131	You did not say to me 'Take the floor to answer that alone'. Well, I'm sorry, but I forgot. Well, look. When do children give tests? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u132	Are you asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u133	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u134	Me and my kid in high school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u135	But I didn't ask you if you had a kid in high school. I ask when they're taking tests. They shall give in June 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u136	You're a year before the exams. When are you going to give it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Loverdo, let's hear the Minister's answer. Here you go, Mr. Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u138	In June 2020 they give the Third High School Children an exam, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u139	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u140	So children, our families, our society must start to get used to the fact that for the June 2020 exams you have not been preparing since January 2019. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u141	Give him a hand, SYRIZA colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Loverdo, I thought we shouldn't get away. We're doing great in the rhythm! Tell us when to close this conversation!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u143	No, it makes sense, because it makes it seem like we're doing sloppy. They're not sloppy. It's a regularity, as it happens everywhere. In any case, instead of us doing so, as usual, during the summer, before the end of the month, the matter examined will certainly be announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u144	Not the book. He did not say "the book". He said the 'example material', Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u145	"The matter examined," he said. I understand very well. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committees on Social Affairs, Economic Affairs and Public Administration, Public policy and Justice have submitted their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Home Affairs and Finance: "Debatement of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and OTAs 1, Pension regulations and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening the protection of workers and other provisions". We start the third cycle with my colleague Mrs Panayota Brandza. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, because the Qualification has chosen once again to set up a communiqué, assuming that it will gain election benefits. The opportunity for this was a confessedly unsatisfactory, unnecessarily and, in my opinion, wrong statement by the Deputy Minister for Health. However, the reason is the need for the conservative party to cover its political insufficiency and its sadness which led to the country's destruction. Of course, this New Democracy is not even capable of setting up a successful fiasco. As always, it is out of the climate, without contact with reality and in a completely different direction from that imposed by the public interest, because today the debate in the bill on the hundred and twenty instalments of insurance funds and tax and positive economic measures announced by the Prime Minister should normally be focused. Unfortunately, thanks to the supposed and hypocritical equilibrium of the New Democracy we are having this debate here, and I am sure that the Greek people are much more interested in the first ones I mentioned, for the positive economic measures, too, for the operetta you are presenting here today and yesterday. Apart from the political controversy you rightly seek two weeks before the critical election of the European elections, it is particularly important that the field of confrontation, its style and its level. Unfortunately, the Chief of Officer County, with a truly sad presence yesterday, chose to compare to the lowest possible level of gossip, tumbling, cheap patriotism and lies. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that with this outdated old-fashioned and vulgar reason you cannot be useful to a citizen of this country either. There was a clipboard design with a base gun the moral specula that certainly does not constitute your privileged field. The loans of "CARRYKA", ERIC, "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS", offshore donors, issuers who pay your rent and a lot but from your works and days simply do not allow you to speak. Of course, when you do, you reveal. Unfortunately for you, however, beyond the communication fieste and performance you are giving, you are also obliged to talk about the essential issues that concern Greek citizens. The citizens of this country, ladies and gentlemen, know very well that in 2010 the country went bankrupt and the account was paid very expensively by the Greek people. That's something he can't forget. They also know and realize that it is the SYRIZA government that leads the country and the economy to recovery. As much as you try to prove the opposite and do the "white" "white", reality disguises you once again. I am not going to mention - and other colleagues have done so - in the last year's events, in the exit from the committee in August 2018 and in everything that has happened and changed and changed the country's course and the lives of the citizens, because the citizens are now aware of them in their daily lives. Whether you like it or not, the country came out of the memorials you put it in. The minimum wage was increased, the subordinated was abolished, the collective labour agreements returned, the country borrowed at the lowest rates of the last 20 years. All citizens have access to the public health system. Social policy expenditure, support for the weak, the family, the child and the disabled - for which you are in theory only cut - have been multiplied. And you have the courage to present yourself here and move the finger, basically not to us, to the government, but to the Greek society. But beyond you, you're also naive. You have provoked this debate at a time when you know that the government, having the budget space, can - and it has announced - a series of positive economic measures and significant reductions. This really reminds me of the sprout that scratches on the sip-glaze. Now, you have to put yourself on these measures as well as on the statements made by your friend, Mr Webber. Of course, you should be invited to vote or vote against the measures from next week. Your attitude is really interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have to repeat the same. It has been repeated many times in the Chamber. But we must be honest. Obviously there is a question of reproach, and this is about the disaster that has taken place in the country over the last few decades. It is about the maritime loans of parties and politicians. It is about the party in health, the client state, the rural bank, the "ERRIKOS DYAN", LARCO, the Urban Transport of Thessaloniki and much more from the list of shame and destruction that you have created. There is also a question of the vote of confidence, which concerns the country's economic consolidation, transparency, the public health system, the public insurance system, employment, fair growth and, obviously, the SYRIZA Government, which is fighting and serving these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u147	The Vice-President of the New Democracy Mr Constantine Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I suspect that tomorrow evening everything will be fine. The government majority will prove to be solid and all together will celebrate that you have won a bright victory, but a victory, which will be a torrent victory and even a clear defeat in society. Some poor people - because there are always - may say that the government majority decided to cover the lies of the Prime Minister and mistrusted will add that the Prime Minister had lied and lied to anyone who speaks Greek. Some other just as badly offended will refer to government failure, they will dare to do so and they will talk about the understanding of the Ministry of Education which wants to turn us back to the 1980s. That's his vision. They'll talk about 'Tosca', doing whatever you sleep in. They will talk about management, not only the essential, but also the communication, the tragic communication and provocative communication management with Matti and Mandra. They will talk about the EUR 100 billion or, if you like, the EUR 86 billion professedly by your Member, which Mr Varoufakis has put us on the back with their negotiation. They will speak of Greece's expansion of the gap with the other European countries in the four years that SYRIZA governs. They will talk about the fact that Greece has unfortunately taken the championship of increasing taxes from 2015 to 2018 in all 40 OECD countries. And they will, of course, talk about the fact that our country is the last country in Europe in 2018. And at the time the Prime Minister celebrates the supposed exit from the memorials and for a new era of blooming, one will find that in 2018 we had three billion investments less than in 2017 and 2017 three times less investments than in 2007. Now the government is celebrating - it has a torque at the fairs, we know - for three of the thirty-three meters that it has taken over all these years that it wants to say thank you and, together, to say thank you to the worker, the retired person who has seen a series of deep antisocial measures, including in these measures the complete abolition of the EKT, the cut-off of supplementary pensions and the reduction of new pensions up to 38% by the 'Katrugalos Law'. But, ladies and gentlemen, to change the tone, I expected all this because I know both the government's demagogy and the dogmatism and the inadequacy, but I also know of course the discipline of the government's majority: it has proved all these four years that anything that the government can bring and the black and white supports them. It's your problem. However, there are some things that surprise me - at least, to a certain extent, they surprise me - and they have to do with the political morale of the government and especially the Maxi Group. I don't speak arrogantly. I do not want to argue that we of the opposition have been a time-consuming one. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the political morale was your pride you would change everything and create an ideal environment in politics. Uh, well, let me know if I'm wrong with you. The Maximos team has already taken care, before the elections, to go with the Himalayas cat and then drag him out with Kalogrisa and his pastures, with Marinakis, who, in a statement, said that he voted for SYRIZA, went to Maximos until you "done it" and then drag him out, with the Petsites and the DEPA scandal - Laurentiadis, with casinos which are the only case your government had made a reduction in direct tax, with the multinationals of the drug that you recently put in place by strengthening them and facilitating them to get better prices at pan-European level and with Mr. Kokkas who goes down to your Eurogroup, while otherwise you are talking about the war against the dispute. I wonder if I am inaccurate in all of this because I speak with facts. And we are reaching the present, the most up-to-date issues. I will not repeat what has been said. I want, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to ask you two questions, and I would like, please, if you do not want to answer public, when you celebrate tomorrow night, to answer your conscience. First question: If Mr Tsipras did not cover Mr Polakis - and yesterday with his placement from here he made it even worse, because, for Stelios Kymbropoulou, he said that he was surrounded by a pot, that is to say that he is of reduced intelligence and that we want him to - if Mr Tsipras did not reward Mr Polakis, would it be better or worse? I mean, if he didn't cover him, would things be worse for our democracy? Would things be worse for our humanity? Would things be worse for you? Answer me. And above all, you who say you're sensitive, answer yourself, your conscience. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the second question: was he obligated to rest Mr. Tsipras, after the Eye going hiding in a pigeon? Was that the only choice he had? I don't incriminate the boobs, even though I've never gone on vacation in the nuts, but I don't incriminate it! I say, however, that while he had spoken, he - not us - about the foxes and those who go to the fowls, and he spoke and talked about the elites, he thought that the best way to make a vacation was to take a vacation to the lower elites, and even at the same time that today you are still saying that you are against the elites, that you are the government of the many. Hey, excuse me. You are not a government of many, you are a government that deceives many and has an incredible hypocrisy. And even more, you are a government that despises the many and even more its own voters. To them you are exposed, to them because they had believed, what you were saying. This government is a government which has acquired a status quo and in four years' time. So the motion of censure - and I close - ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, for me basically is an invitation to a new worthy political framework in the country. And this invitation is not only addressed to the right-wing and centre-right citizens, it is also addressed to our left-wing fellow citizens, who are disappointed by a government which has been politically mutated at all levels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Hatzidakis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u150	I'm closing, Mr. President. And it is the motion of censure that we had presented to Mr. Polakis an invitation to a new beginning away from the political theatre, away from cynicism, away from the contempt for the values of the Greeks and the intelligence of the Greeks. It is a call for Greece to become a normal European country. And this course will begin - you have no doubt - on May 26, because the Greek citizens are pissed at you by this provocative and arrogant attitude and they say: We are coming now, we deserve a better Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u151	My colleague, Mr. Apostle Karastasis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin with Mr Hatzidakis' position, although I do not often do that, who said that some issues are astonished by him in terms of the functioning of the government. This takes me immediately to 2018, in the Senate Hall, where we were surprised by Mr. Hatzidakis on the issue of not reducing pensions for 2019, when the attack on Mr. Moscovici on intervention in the interior of this country was then carried out and on the fact that the New Democracy had not been informed, so as to adapt its programme for the non-reduction of pensions for 2019. I think we need to remember how we make a policy, when the Commissioner of the European Commission has taken him down, you are fighting him, because he has made a proposal, which was made by a scientific document, that is, that the economy of the country was going very well. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the government's vote of confidence comes a few days before the European elections and a few months before the national elections, which will take place at the end of its constitutional term of office, particularly in Greece's political times. This gives us the opportunity to discuss all the matter with the people, to reveal to those who do not know or forget what we received in 2015, to explain our options for the four years that have taken place since then, to highlight what we have achieved and to analyse our planning for the future. Mr. Mitsotakis and the New Democracy could not give us a better gift at this particular time juncture. In addition, they are not renowned for the adequacy of their manipulations and forecasts. I really can't remember a single prediction of them that have fallen inside. I would remind you that they abandoned the country's rule in 2015, without resolving the commitments they had made themselves and without closing the memorandum they had signed. They abandoned the country's rule before the apparent overwhelming defeat in the upcoming elections, awaiting a rapid return to power after a brief left parentheses. This parentheses opened up, we changed page, we removed the country from the memorials and we progress firmly and with a plan on the next day for society and the country. And the parentheses, colleagues of the New Democracy and of KINAL, well hold and will continue with the people's vote in October to last for several more years. Four years ago we received a broken country under the ratification of the International Monetary Fund and the European Union's Headquarters, with unemployment close to 30%, with pensions and salaries reduced to the limits of poverty, with a large proportion of our young people abroad, scientists in particular, with the public health system broken down, with GDP down, with a society in a deep humanitarian crisis, but also a crisis of institutions and values, with Greeks in despair. And these are only a small part of the misfortune we have received. To go through for a while in the infrastructure and transport sector, which is important, I note that this area, which is not particularly good for New Democracy, has for decades been the engine of the national economy and has identified its development with the development of the country. It is the first area to be tested by the crisis and it is the one that paid the heaviest price. During the six years from 2009 to 2014, the production of private projects collapsed almost completely. At the same time, in the public works sector, small businesses, mainly active at local and non-national level, could not be maintained, since local projects were significantly reduced, support from the banks was stopped and the obligations of all kinds became clearer. So a large part of them were shut down, while the rest of them were planting. The great works were veiled or abandoned. We know. This was the situation that was inherited in 2015 by the governments of the New Democracy and KINAL, who are now swinging the finger. We were overshadowed, we worked with a programme, we set targets, we worked with the European Union, and the results speak for themselves. We have completed or continued the process of completion of the major projects, which we have found 'frozen' and resurrected them, such as the five roads and the high-speed rail. On Wednesday, the high-speed rail line from Athens to Thessaloniki will be officially launched. She's ready. It is also the metro of Thessaloniki that goes ahead, the new metro lines, the freight stations, all the roads, Ionia Corinthos - Patras, Tempis. In the past few days, we have ratified the Kastelli contract, which is at the BOAK. It is also the implementation for 2019 of the anti-military and fires that are caused by disasters due to many mismanagement of the previous years and decades. Ladies and gentlemen, if one of us said in May 2015 that we would have come out of the memorials in December 2018, and our country would return to normality, getting a voice in the world forums and respect from the international community, it would have received slime, mud, ridicule from Anti-Population and media friendlys. We did not, however, fear in front of the Gordian bond, which seemed we could not then cut him off. Turning the story, we decided to solve it and we did it. Following consistently the design we have defined from the outset, we have managed to take the country out of the weight and the reproach of the memorials, as much as you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and KINAL, are still alone throughout Europe to question it. Before reaching the exit from the memorandum, but, above all, we have achieved a reduction in unemployment by ten percentage points, a reduction in the insurance contributions by freelance professionals and self-employed farmers, an insurance contribution for young people under twenty-four years and a series of social support and reinstatement actions for the country on the path of development. With the measures announced by the Prime Minister, we signal our policy for the next four years and our country's definitive exit from the crisis. And these are permanent measures to build a social state for the first time. Finally, it is certain that we have given our country an international entity and we are already an important factor in the south-eastern Mediterranean and the European Union with global recognition of our important role in the region. Besides, the mere quote, what we received in 2015 and what we are guaranteeing for the Greek people today, is a disappointment for the critics of the government. I am therefore incomprehensible to the New Democracy's choice to provoke this debate. I would remind them that the people in this case say 'the wing is broken, the evil of their heads'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that we are being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-one students and students and five attendants of teachers from the 1st Igoumenitsa Municipal School and the Margaritis Municipal School of Margaret Thesprotia. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u155	I understand that because you mentioned your name, Mr Hatzidakis, you obviously want the floor on staff. I'll give you the floor for a minute. I don't give you time because you're disciplined. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u156	I'll be very brief. Mr President, Mr Karanastassis, repeating the lies Mr Tsipras mentioned yesterday, implied that I, supposedly, was in favour of reducing pensions. Apart from the fact that, of course, any Member of any party with a brain in his head could not claim that, that is, it escapes common sense, I have the Minutes here to end the matter. So I read from the Minutes. I say to Moskovis: "There is not a single Greek citizen who wants pensions to be cut." I would add that if, Commissioner, you tell us that this pension agreement will be cancelled, welcome. Well, let Greek citizens draw their conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u157	In any case, you have responded more twice from the Minutes, Mr Vice-President. We're moving on. We said Mr. Papatheodorou has apologized. But he'll be here. They're on their way. If we do not waste time, I will give the floor to Mr George Psychoyoyo. Let it be two of the SYRIZA. It's not my fault. The Minister will then take the floor, Ms. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou. As I see some 'abuses', I would ask that the secretariats of the parliamentary groups inform those who are not in the Chamber, because some of them are, in other words, Members. Next fellow speakers Kikilia, Skourleti, Sahinides, Bakoyannis, Lambroulis, Megamystaka, Psariano. They're shutting down the c-circle of speakers. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today's position with the completion of seventy-fashioned years of great anti-fascist victory and the slogan 'Never war any more, never fascism' that followed the collapse of a thousand-fashioned fascism, and which remains extremely topical today. I am also given the opportunity through this report to comment on some sensible, but also political acronyms and misinterpretations of colleagues, especially New Democracy and KINAL, in everything that has to do with SYRIZA, the extreme right and all this. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we must also be a little careful in this Chamber, because MPs, ministers and SYRIZA officials have fought great battles against far-right and fascism. They're also attending the Golden Dawn's own, which you haven't even been through outside to see what's going on. The Ministry of Justice has made moves to speed up the trial through the exclusive employment of judges and the conduct of the hearing at the court of appeal. Of course, through all our actions in the anti-fascist movement in society, outside the House, in solidarity with refugees, in social inequalities, we try to reduce and cultivate the monster that you, in particular, with your rhetoric and your policies are strengthening and rearing. Furthermore, it is true that yellowism and scandalism do not satisfy anyone in this Chamber. But again, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, how can we equate a speech by the Prime Minister, who referred to a specific exit plan at the moment from the crisis, with concrete interventions and policies, with a speech by the Chief of Police, which focused mainly on parapolitical comments? Obviously, they are the same, equal distances that you have on a political level towards SYRIZA and New Democracy, unlike Sanchez, Costa and Corbin who have taken their place and have been justified in Europe. But I want to say something about the rest of the left. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, is currently giving a very big fight for the social state, for rights, for the weakest. And, perhaps, some do not think that it is the left of our dreams - which may not - but what the road shows is that we have a lot of room for it. We need to see what we have in front of us. On the contrary, we have this: we have a memorandum, without a memorandum from the New Democracy. We have one by five, instead of one by one for the recruitments to the public. We have the concession to private individuals of all services that SYRIZA has currently brought back to the municipalities and ministries. We have the eighth hour, which is overdue for the New Democracy, which wants to make a rule on flexible working relationships, which we have reduced, not extinguished yet. He wants to make the minimum wage floating - listen, listen - with indicators of GDP and per region. Of course, with a Pinochet insurance system, in which private insurance will be the one that will advance. Anyone who can survive, who can't, in Kaidas. That's what you discussed at the Center for Liberal Studies and that's your program. So let's see what you're trying to hit us now. Are you trying to hit us in reducing VAT to 13%? To reduce the food factor to 13%, from 24%? To reduce VAT on electricity and natural gas, which covers all households and businesses, to 6%? The provision of the thirteenth pension graduation to all pensioners? Or do you want to hit 2020 measures? The abolition of the solidarity levy, which hit us all, free professionals, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, up to EUR 20,000, and the reduction in the upper incomes? Are you also disturbed by subsidising insurance contributions and young workers, where with the increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the subordinate, will they come to balance both in the support of workers and in the support of small and medium-sized enterprises? The tax reductions of island residents? The 10% discount on the taxable income of cooperative farmers? The further reduction of the cost of heating oil in mountain areas? With the motion of censure you tried to move the finger in SYRIZA to what exactly? Social policy that we're working on? In the rights policy that we have brought from 2015 onwards? Are you trying to strike what exactly, ladies and gentlemen? In the positive arrangements that we have brought to SMEs? In 15% of the new posts declared to the public are reserved for HEIs, in addition to the 5% already in existence? In keeping with his allowance, the disabled, appointed for training or fixed-term employment, who obviously proves a different perception? Because the allowance has to do with meeting the basic needs of the disabled, it has nothing to do with his salary. Is it not to exclude an invalidity allowance from his income? To be donated to the child with disabilities to all benefits granted by the State for their children and families? Or does the Minister for Education have just said what we are providing for children with disabilities? Of course, there are still issues. The CSR function has been greatly improved, streamlined. But we still have a way. In any case, however, these have also been addressed. So that's all the measures? For us these measures are not charity, ladies and gentlemen, nor are they gifts, nor are they benevolent benefits. They are permanent measures, they are necessary safeguards, they are keys to giving equal opportunities, equal conditions for other people in that country, to get close to the concept of social justice. The Constitution itself also provides for positive measures, positive discrimination to be taken with legal accuracy, in order to achieve the concept of equality. But in your elitist perception, these are fine letters. And I keep asking myself: What exactly do you want to hit us with all that noise you're creating? In that all the citizens of this country, two and a half million uninsured, had access to the National Health System when you had thrown them out? The recruitment of the National Health System, which upgrades their service? In what? What about the hospital surpluses now and where did we get them bankrupt? In what? The contractors you favored and put them everywhere, and who used to exploit the workers and overreacted the hospitals? What exactly of all this? Measures to tackle the humanitarian crisis? The social income of solidarity? Increasing the positions and infrastructures of nurseries? To strengthen public education, university and research programmes? Or even in the last announcement by the Interior Minister that we will fund ramps for the disabled in school buildings through the "Philodimos"? However, we, ladies and gentlemen, do not triumph. Just because we come from society itself and know very well what it means, we note that the extreme austerity applied has left its print and its consequences are still here. But they're not just numbers. They are people, and there are many, and for these people we fight, we look into the eyes, they have to resurrect, and we serve their own interests. You, again, can mourn for the interests of the few who, with such consistency, have been serving for so many years and continue these policies that Mr Webber is exalting in Europe right now and is a mixture of neoliberalism and authoritarianism. So I, through all that the government has done, am voting for confidence, knowing, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that the road is still difficult and long, but that several images of another world, another society, fair and better, have already appeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in August of last year, when our country finally had a clear exit from the memoranda, a new period began for our country, for the Greek people, for the economy and for society. The way out of the memoranda and the way it was made was not a given one, that is to say, through a particular negotiation, which, on the one hand, ensured a clear exit without any other type of memoranda, mediator solutions that, as we know, existed at the table and, on the other, a regulation on debt. However, what was mainly not a given was the policy that followed. Because exiting from the memorandum meant - and it means - a gradual resurgence of sovereignty for our country, a gradual recovery of political initiatives and choices. The political front, ideological and political controversy, as well as the comparison and confrontation of the programmes, are being restored. And that, of course, is a health for democracy. Because one of the major victims of the memoranda was democratic processes themselves because the iso-Peteran Memorandum of Understanding also worked as an alibi for a number of policies imposed by the dominant neoliberal approach of the last decade. So what we can say, today that the Prime Minister and the Government are calling for a vote of confidence by Parliament, is that since September, from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the SYRIZA Government and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras have made concrete choices concerning precisely this different political approach. A different mix of economic and social policy on medium and lower incomes, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, the real economy and a new policy mix. And as the Vice-President of the New Democracy was mentioned earlier, Mr Hatzidakis, earlier and questioned that the SYRIZA Government is a government of many, whether you are government of many, it turns out, first of all, of what you are embassing, of what political and programming positions you show, and of what policies you are introducing in Parliament and what measures you are implementing. So the measures that the Prime Minister announced from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition were all implemented. They were voted until Christmas and they are being implemented. So are the measures that followed. I am also talking about restoring collective bargaining gradually over the last few months. Right now, we have twelve sectoral collective agreements after too many years. And of course, we decided to increase the minimum wage and abolish the shameful underpaid wage. I would remind you that these were the major hits of the second memorandum, which have now been restored, precisely because we are in this new memorial regularity. The Prime Minister in Zappeion yesterday announced a next large package of measures, which are in line with the regulation for the hundreds of twenty instalments. Vice-President Kaklamanis previously announced that this critical draft law, which will be passed next week, will give a substantial breath to at least five million Greek citizens, may be more. So the Prime Minister, the day before yesterday, did not just come to announce new measures. He came to present, deepen and give strategic depth to a new development, redistributive and social logic. Because that's what this is all about. He even set it within a framework of budgetary responsibility and with a view to 2019 and 2020. Critical measures for 2019 will be adopted, as he said, next week with immediate implementation. This also applies to the reduction of VAT, the redistributive perception of the 13th pension and all relevant issues. So all this proves that we are the government of many. Because it's not just what we're talking about, it's mostly what we're doing. Like the ones we are planning now that we have the option. The New Democracy, now - and we saw Mr Mitsotakis yesterday in a speech which had personal targetings and parapolitical reports without planning - how does he treat this whole policy from September to today? He's talking about impulse. But it means a wish. Here, we have measures adopted and implemented, and measures which will come next week to be passed and implemented. He's talking about election benefits. And the question is this: do they consider it to be benefits for measures involving, in fact, either one hundred and twenty instalments, either VAT, or redistributive pensions, or labour matters? This is their concept of redistribution for the social state as well. They also talk about crumbs. Anyone who talks about crumbs is probably completely detached from the needs of today's man of labor and the wide majority of the middle class and weaker layers of our country. Of course, there was the last line of defence that everything we implement is their own measures. This is, at least, a more positive approach, although it does create very great impressions and questions. If these measures were their own, for so long they had opposing positions, which is the subject of duty-free. I will not go into more detail, but the inconsistencies of the New Democracy have been mentioned. Today, then, it is clear that political controversy again makes sense. This is also the point of a substantial programme debate in Parliament in view of the critical European elections, and much more so of the even more critical consideration of the parliamentary elections in October. Because the people have to choose between different policies, a neoliberal - with far-right rhetoric and dispersal - on the other hand, a clear democratic development, redistributive and social direction. And this is a dilemma for the European elections too - since it is Europe's Day today, another democratic and social Europe - and of course much more for the parliamentary elections. If there is one sector where political and programming confrontation is particularly important, it is the public administration. You will allow me here to insist more and to be very specific. In this area, the New Democracy has no hidden program, it has an obvious programme. What it does, however, presenting its obvious programme, is: It has a selective memory for the past and conceals the consequences of its obvious programme. So, you will allow me, in particular, to place myself on and respond to what the Chief of Staff Response, Mr. Mitsotakis, mentioned about the public administration yesterday. Because that is the point of a debate at the National Representation. Mitsotakis was the Minister of Administrative Reform during the period of governance of Samaras, and for much of this governance he was the Minister of Administrative Reform. I would therefore remind you that more than three thousand redundancies have been made in governance 2012-2014. If we add ERT redundancies, it's over five thousand redundancies. There were a thousand eight hundred civil servants unaccompanied, because the 2015 elections took place earlier. These are civil servants who have all been restored to the first laws brought by the SYRIZA Government. He is here and the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, who was then Minister of the Single Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, who brought this law. As was also the case, the famous availability, which served as a premier of redundancies, was also abolished by the Government of SYRIZA. This is a first answer, that even in a memorial period there were choices, and the SYRIZA Government was able to restore redundancies and abolish availability and agree to the institutions too, let alone in a period of no Memorandum obligations now. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So let's go to the obvious program. Mr Mitsotakis tells us that he will return to his Memorandum of Understanding one by five, and today one by one. Look, one by one just stops shrinking, it doesn't enlarge the state. Over the past ten years, public administration has had 20% horizontal reduction and the ageing of its staff, with an average of fifty to fifty five years. In particular, 2019 recruitments, based on the departures of 2018, are nine thousand forty. One to five, if applied today, would be a thousand eight hundred positions. The following questions are raised: Who will be recruited? The thousands of eight hundred positions cover the productive schools of the Army, the Diplomatic Academy, the Police, the National School of Public Administration. There would be no room for a doctor, neither for a professor, nor for a JEP employee, nor for a researcher, because Mr Mitsotakis referred to scientists. No more intake. I therefore hear the representative in various debates with Members of the New Democracy. They'll make, they say, internal movements. Mobility is right, and we are applying the institution. The question arises: When you don't have doctors and teachers, who will you put? Will administrative or technicians be placed to make doctors and teachers? Today, there are no doctors, no nurses, no teachers. This lack of mobility is not solved. Where we can meet needs we can, through mobility and implement it. What, then, does this New Democracy position hide? He's hiding two things. Whether there is an obvious programme, which does not explain the consequences, or at the back of their minds, they have - but state it, if that is - the privatization of specific services in the social state. Because otherwise the bill won't come out. Let us be clear. More so, said Mr Mitsotakis yesterday that the number of graduates is 10% in the 2018 recruitment. We'll answer everything here with evidence. Obviously Mr Mitsotakis is not well informed or has no updates, because I do not want to question the briefing of the Chief of Staff. So I am tabling in the Minutes the elements of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction from the census, which has not been questioned either by the European institutions or by any party. The evidence, therefore, that in 2018 there were seven thousand two hundred twenty-two recruits of permanent civil servants in the public sector. Of these, the three thousand five hundred forty - five were P.T., university education, a thousand hundred ten T.T., Higher Technology Institutions. 64.5% of 2018 recruitments and not as was said to be 10%. I submit it for the Minutes, so that things are not said. [[At this point, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] With regard to other recruitments, the public needs employees and compulsory education as well as secondary education. ........................................ I shall mention a characteristic example of the notice. 3K for cleanliness employees in the municipalities. A large proclamation in progress last year has been taken into account the figures from the 3K provisional tables in the figures they mentioned. Recruitment is covered by municipal fees, not in the state budget. The question is: Is it less important for the public interest, public health, the quality of life in the city and in our villages to have cleanliness officials in the municipalities, knowing the working hostage that has existed for so many years? No, of course not. So, is there another secret program here as an expiry of one to five, even where it is a recompense, to privatise the city's cleanliness services? You should tell us openly, and the Greek people should know. We know, however, that when we invest in permanent staff, we have better services and better industrial relations, and we open up a prospect of its development. But let us move on to other issues too. Why did the New Democracy as a government denounce the National School of Public Administration (NRC) and did not competition? From there they are graduating executives, the selectors of the public administration. The SYRIZA Government has launched a tender for three consecutive years for the ECHR - and now the fourth proclamation is being prepared. When you claim some things, it must be proved at the same time. As also, I would like to see an additional position on the New Democracy side. When Mr Mitsotakis said this yesterday, did he ignore the fact that there are two thousand doctors in progress and four and a half thousand professors, as Mr Gavroglou said before about the special education, as did the pre-migration in the next few years for a number of teachers, doctors and nurses and other staff? I do not think he ignored it because this is a matter of university education staff, which is essential for the functioning of the social state. We have chosen in the post-mortem period - to pay particular attention first of all to the institutional dimension, strengthening the AACC and establishing for the first time the multi-annual and annual recruitment planning, based on the law, which was passed last January, which has already been implemented. Recruitment isn't an end in public. But it is a prerequisite for the public to function effectively. It's a fake little or big state. What we need to answer, ladies and gentlemen, are: What is the necessary state today, the necessary administration that the rule of law guarantees, the functioning of the institutions of democracy, the social state and which really can serve the country's development strategy within the financial framework? That is exactly what we predict and apply. Forgotten by Mr Mitsotakis, who yesterday saged the question of evaluation, on his own minister, the famous assessment of 15% of punishment, which led to a mandatory 15% insufficiency, automatically inaccessible and possible dismissal in the overall range of redundancies at that time. A provision which he had to withdraw at that time - I remind you - after the outcry he had within his own party. The government after 2015 had to restore confidence within the public administration in terms of evaluation, so that we now have positive evaluation results corresponding to 84.5% in relation to the evaluation that ended in October 2018 in the evaluation process, which will become digitalally, we believe that participation will be even greater. Because the evaluation is carried out to support the quality and upgrading of the public and not to punish and intimidate the employees. More than that, the evaluation is not exhausted to civil servants. The evaluation concerns the structures of the public administration themselves, the policies implemented, and much more the results of the reforms. For this reason, again with Law 4590, we have established and already presented the Public Administration Observatory in order to be able to self-assess the public administration. Reforms are not only carried out with their institutionalisation. A substantial evaluation of the reforms and their results is necessary in order to adapt and be effective. At the same time, we placed particular emphasis on the social and educational rights of civil servants with regard to social rights, widened the rights of families, parents, mothers' leave for children's diseases, health mobility for the whole family. We have extended the possibility of an examination. We have abolished the unacceptable regulation of the exclusion of the possibility of a postgraduate qualification for employees over forty-five years. We have assimilated the permanent and the IDACs to the issues of education. And I will focus particularly on the LEADs, as we have taken very specific measures as the Prime Minister yesterday with the 2016 law of 15% in the recruitment of the LEADER necessarily corresponds to the LEADER. We further strengthened it with Law 4590, resolving a problem involving people with deafness and extending the rights of third-country families. At the same time, we have enabled reduced working hours for all mothers and fathers who work in the public who have children of LEADER. We are proud to pass Law 4591, which ensures the accessibility of small and medium-sized enterprises to all public administration electronic structures and applications. In fact, yesterday we visited the National Printing Office, I am pleased to say that it is moving on with a programme - in June - which will be completed by which our fellow citizens with a visual problem will be able to access the VETs with a special system to be applied. We also proceed to the recruitments of civil servants who are aware of the writing of Braille, as well as the Greek sign language, to justify pilot JEPs in Athens and Thessaloniki for people who have deafness and blindness. Ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for the vote of confidence in the House - on the credibility and consistency of the programme that the government has implemented to date to be able to complete this important work and much more on our programme. A prospective programme for the development, social future of our country in this new era. The emergence of a progressive left-wing proposal is a political and social need of our time. We call for this vote of confidence tomorrow in Parliament. This vote of confidence we believe the people will also give us European elections, and much more with a strong new progressive mandate to the parliamentary elections in October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kikilis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought very much whether it would be worth it to the people of this country who had yesterday's debate, the three-day confrontation, where we have political arguments in relation to your governance and the overthrowing of the reproach of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Polakis, in a debate of distrust and trust or not with the Government. I would like to tell you that for many years Greek society as a whole - right, centred and left - had forgotten and left behind civil wars, passions, hate and on either side. The national ruler and founder of the New Democracy, in 1974, who was born - Constantine Karamanlis played a very important role in leaving as a society behind us what made us pay as a state, as a country and as a nation a very heavy blood tax, the hardest, the most unfair, the worst wars and the civil wars, the ones that took back the country and damaged it. We were caused by huge problems and left very deep raisins. It took many generations to get through it. In 2006, in the Municipality of Athens, I met a new politician on his own side, representing the Coalition, Alexis Tsipras, and I've been watching him since until today who is the Prime Minister of the country. I, like many other young Greeks and older people, believed that perhaps entering the political scene, in the policy of younger people, would bring more morals and other attitudes, probably the possibility of talking in another style, forgetting the bad texts, the things that separate us and hurt us, have political controversy, lead the country, the middle Greek family, the middle class, the popular strata in another era. I was wrong. Since then Alexis Tsipras has invested in a civil-war rhetoric and his attitude is permanently split in terms of Greek society. I cannot say the same for my fellow Members in this House, for some ministers, for people we have worked with, even if we were in opposing camps, in local self-government. And I feel it is too unfair that it has lured SYRIZA, which today has the majority in the Greek Parliament and governs this country, on this slippery path. I have collaborated, spoken and politically opposed to several of you and I do not see that you are all identified with the content of this rhetoric, this policy and, in general, this political behaviour. But he chose to split Greeks and did it targeted, giving orders. He said financially to the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, to talk directly about scratching the tax in the middle class and targeting some, over-taxing them, so that others can survive and submit. I saw it in the Municipality of Athens in the way that he was politically opposed to the then resignation of Nikita Kaklamanis or the position he took in the sad events of the incidents with the tragic end of December 2008 in Athens. I have retrospectively seen it here in Parliament, when it was a party of the opposition minority, in the way the Indignant Movement was speaking or bragging, the squares, its rhetoric in the years of the crisis, in the way in which, in my view, it has made use of power and now in the way it is being dealt with. In any case, Mr Tsipras made his choices. It has been four and a half years and will now be judged by the Greek people. What makes me feel like algal impression is the way he chooses to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, the value of the winner gives glory to the winner, but the winner should be able to find a decent way, with a code of morality, to know when his policies failed and when in a democratic manner always and with the choices of the Greek people he was in the government in 2015 and that he can be found at the headquarters of Anti-Population in the next elections. I see, however, that it is impossible for Mr Tsipras to prove this and, unfortunately, he is politically opposed, but his colleagues and MPs in the SYRIZA, in order to achieve his personal objectives and objectives, because, in my view, he has dragged SYRIZA into rhetoric, the behavior and manner of his civilisation, Mr Polakis, the Deputy Minister of Health, in order to achieve his personal goals and objectives, because, in my view, he is a sad parliamentary practice and unfair to many of my colleagues. I was in Parliament's Chamber and I heard many of you who spoke in this Step, burning personal political behaviour towards a man who is disabled in a stroller and who is a fighter of life and called Kymbouropoulos and it doesn't matter whether he is in the Euroleaf with the New Democracy, but none at all. It is obvious that this controversy and the way Mr Paulakis chose to attack a new man, who, in my view, is a hero of life and a fighter, escapes the parties. It has nothing to do with the sterile political confrontation between us in any case. It raises the human sphere, offends our culture and, of course, certainly the sensitivities that many left-wing people have. I thought that, following the suggestions of your colleagues and colleagues from SYRIZA, Mr. Paulakis would review and apologise or bring him back to class. Not only did that happen, but instead Mr. Tsipras dragged you all to the level, to the rhetoric and to the state of that Deputy Minister. And this has done a great deal of damage to the entire Greek Parliament and we will all pay it to the Greek people, who sees it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. So do we come here, after the reproach has been turned to the Minister in a motion of censure for the government, to discuss the events of these four years? I am trying to find out in all your policies, in foreign policy on the basis of the Prespecies Agreement, on the issue of the refugee - immigration that you have opened the borders, on the economy that you have broken down the middle class, on the issues of order and security that all citizens live in uninsured neighbourhoods of Athens and Greece, on the issues of taxation that you have over-taxed everyone, on the investments that have all been blocked, on the education that you have returned to the country - you do not allow private universities - in the way you think, on the way you are thinking, on the policy in which you have achieved and on which the Greek people should reward you. And sincerely and objectively - despite sometimes good intentions - I cannot find it. We will obviously vote against your government. Obviously in a few days' time is coming for the European elections and the self-government elections and sooner or later - Mr. Tsipras can run, but he can't hide - the national elections. I am sure that the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, those who are expressed, but those who stand silently on the edge and are not expressed, will give an answer to these political behaviours and will certainly push to new governance and a new era to get Greece out of the staircase and guarantee a better life, not for the right-wing, not for the centrals, nor for the left-wing, horizontal for the entire Greek society, for all citizens. Because that is the duty and duty of a prime minister, not to be class, not to divide, but to serve everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. Mr Skourletis has the floor, and then Mr Papatheodorou will speak, who had informed the Bureau that he was on his way. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because dialogue must be alive, let me start with some thoughts that were born to me by listening to Mr Kikilia. When I heard him, I said: 'A very interesting position, which differs from the climate of the positions of the last days of the New Democracy, and especially its Chief, to take a position which differs from the references to the Civil War, to the necessary conclusions to be drawn as a country, as a democracy'. Of course, after a little bit of these first conclusions, you have confused them a little. You have confused us because, you know, it is another confrontation between substantial programmatic differences, another polarisation based on a different perspective, another reflection of the time struggle of classes in politics in today's democracy, and another one that you have said, that - in any case - whoever sees things with a social sensitivity, a class partition, divides. That's what they need to clarify. And you have also made a reference, but I hope at the edge of your speech. In 2008, Mr. Kikilia, we didn't have a tragic event ending, we had a tragic start when a new child was in front of the barrel of a stupid policeman. And they followed what was followed and fortunately then there was a Minister of Home Affairs and Public Order, the current President, who did manage matters with sufficient seriousness. I would therefore ask you, as far as your introduction is concerned, to advise your Chief, Mr Mitsotakis, to take something from the seeds of this logic that you have presented to us. In the second place, you ruined us. Ladies and gentlemen, exiting the programme in the summer of 2018 actually enables us to see the real differences. It enables us to find that a new memorialism is indeed being formed on the basis of programming dissimilarity. And that's good, it's healthy. False controversy, fake confrontation, it is the "yellow" confrontation that undermines democratic dialogue. But even during the implementation of the memoranda, the third memorandum, what we had to sign, even there - perhaps not with such ease - were different concepts. And let me refer to a few things, by comparing what you have done and what we have done. When you closed health structures, we put the reform of primary health, the TOMY. When you flew out patients, we received two and a half million uninsured people, who were unnecessary expenses to receive hospitals. And we have been able to do so in these difficult budgetary conditions and have been hiring priority in the health sector. When you wanted to achieve your commitments at the time, you presented an image in the field of the health of the increasing of EEA obligations, we dramatically reduced them. When you dispersed every concept of energy planning and put PPC's canalism project forward through the unacceptable 'little' PPC project, when you used PPC's accounts as a collective mechanism for you to be able to catch the previous HPAI, this famous motif, which was really a charismatic shot in relation to the possibility of the PPC collecting the accounts in the midst of this tough Memorandum of Understanding, we chose to save the public character of electricity networks and within a new framework of open European energy market to give perspective. We did this, at the same time that you condemned with all your previous strategy things that we now find in front of us and still follow us, PPC based on the political choices you had made to be outside the market for Renewable Energy, which is the most profitable. Why did you do it? Who would you like to favour? Apparently, the private. When you have cut the spending on local government by 65%, we are implementing the largest TA I funding programme that has been post-population, which exceeds EUR 2 billion right now. We are in a pre-election period, ask the three hundred twenty-five mayors to tell you whether it is true or not. When we brought the simple analogue, you defended in the area of self-government, but also in the central political scene - in particular, in the area of selfgovernment - an opaque system of representation of local societies, a dominance center. When we acted on the concept of island policy with motives for doctors to go to mountain and island municipalities, with the equivalent of transport, you were all across the street. When you dropped the minimum wage in one day, we increased it by 30%. When you've implemented the most unfair thing that this new generation, the undersubordinate to the under-25s, we've done away with him. When we brought the vote to seventeen, you said that the seventeen are not mature to vote. Remember them in front of the polls and I address the young people of the 17 years. That's your idea. When you reduce the GDP of this country by 25%, we since 2017 consistently move along the path of growth. And we've been coming to the Waterloe for the last few days. So, there you were telling us that we were going for a fourth memorandum, now you are saying'supports you are doing', 'friendliness'. What do you call tips? That policy is socially targeted. Do you know why? Because the core of your policy is in favour of the interests of oligarchy, because you are a deeply class-defined party. That's it. And you come now and you say tax-free. Come de being betrayed by the 'think tank' that fuels your party's positions and talks about extending the tax base by EUR 2.5 billion! Come on, let your Chief just in the previous Thessaloniki International Exhibition forgot to refer to this issue and even suggesting the reduction of the first rate, the first rate of taxation of income, which starts with zero income. From scratch! Then, of course, you went to ball them and came with one of the amendments that were safe. So things are clear. That is why you chose not to have this debate on programmes. So, why did you choose to poison every day the political life of the place with false news, with stunning news, having put a whole flawed news industry forward. Never before after 1974 had a government against it such a mechanism for making false news, you and your friends of the fewer who own one, two, three, four, five, eight media. Or are these structures of our imagination? Can't people see these? There is therefore a common struggle for the interlocutory, the old interlocutory of the New Democracy and the oligarchy. So why would Mr. Mitsotakis go to a debate? What's that supposed to mean? Why not make proposals for distrust and come to talk to the programmes? Because he'll be revealed. But that is what the Greek people now know. The world met you, paid, blunted, and years later he might hope again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr Papatheodorou will have the floor from the Democratic Compact for seven minutes. Immediately after Mr. Sahinides, Mrs. Vaki and Mr. Vits. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's debate was a bad time for the Greek Parliament. I think we all understand that. First of all, however, it is understood by the citizens who have seen a decline in parliamentary dialogue, a steadfast, small competition of barren confrontations. It does no good to anyone, but to the extreme right, this abhorrence of citizens towards a political system which cannot hold any level in this debate here. Today's debate on the granting of a vote of confidence is Mr Tsipras' last attempt to hide Mr Polakis and the rest of his misappropriation government behind the temporary majority of the transaction of willingly, because that is what this is about. It is a dead end, since the people are no longer being deceived by the "Zappa" - it was a bad choice by the Prime Minister - neither by the proclamation of electoral exchanges, nor by the alliances of the so-called progressives who were bought under short-term political leases. The time of this government, ladies and gentlemen, is over. Yesterday's speech by Mr. Tsipras, who appeared in the House yesterday except for himself and out of control, shows the panic before the fall. The citizens now know that Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA Government give them little back from what they have been given four years now by imposing the toughest austerity and tax bleeding program in the years of the memorandum. People now know that they are returning as election gifts little of the billions that they have been deducting from their incomes for four years in order to pay back the damage to the economic and political disaster of 2015 and the inappropriate third memorandum. When citizens hear the Prime Minister speak of an excess of budget space, they understand that it refers to their own lag and to the constant austerity that it imposed on them, which it imposed on Greek households. But why does Mr Tsipras ask for this latest and meaningless and political content of a vote of confidence? Evidently because he thinks he needs a little more time to show the images of inconsistent and imprudent government cohesion. That is why he covers with his friendly participation in the beaches of Crete, Minister Polakis, no matter what he says or what Mr Polakis does. The message that the Prime Minister sends is that not only does he adopt the insurmountable, verbal trabourism, the insurrection and political ruthlessness of his Minister, but that he is personally in the trouble to support him in his constituency as his own person, with which they do not fit distance, of course, without regard to the other Members of the Prefectures of Crete. But that's their problem. Mr. Tsipras when he looks in his mirror, he sees Mr. Polakis' face now. It's his problem, too. The issue is that citizens are now very little interested in Mr Tsipras and Mr Polakis' communication objections, in the face of their daily problems, in the face of the problems of everyday life they face. The awkward government apologies tell us: do not look at Mr Polakis' behaviour. Look at his political production. Look at what he did to the Ministry of Health. Easy, I'll tell you. Mr. Paulakis is the Deputy Minister of Health, who has left public hospitals without a budget every year, already since the beginning of the summer, who received the pharmaceutical expenditure at EUR 1.9 billion and launched it at EUR 3.5 billion in 2019, with patients paying more than 600 million drug participation in their pockets. This is the political production of Mr Polakis, who appointed his party managers of hospitals in opaque procedures and in bibliographical forms, who are still secretly accused by CEDEFOP employees of directly entrusting EUR 2.8 million for maintenance services of the Ministry of Health, without a competition, in breach of the provisions of public accounting. It is the Minister whom the Greek Federation of Cancer blames for the tails of cancer patients in the pharmacy of EEA. Read yesterday's announcement. He is the minister who is abusing and threatening judges, just as Orban does. He's threatening journalists that he'll put three meters under the ground. It offends the memory of the dead. He's redeeming the S.H.I.E.L.D.s. He is proclaiming prosecutions against his political opponents. He suggests that the SYRIZA parties enter two, three in prison to win the elections and drags them into disciplinary prosecutions of political expeditions of his ministry that are not good for him. It is also the Minister who, when he comes to the Ethics Committee for a simple slandering defamation for which he has been prosecuted, hides behind the shamefulness, as he says, of Article 86 of the Constitution for Responsibility of Ministers, who otherwise wants to abolish, and calls for his immunity not to be lifted. Mr. Paulakis trembles the lifting of his immunity. That is why it obliges you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to vote in favour of it every time. He is therefore a Minister of Ministers who has failed in his ministerial duties, a politically and parliamentaryly self-interested. There is no other word, if you saw him in the Ethics Committee every time he says: I have many criminal persecutions because I reveal scandals. You must not lift my immunity! These, Mr. Polakis and Mr. Tsipras, will support, colleagues of SYRIZA and others willing, with your vote in this last pragmatism of the transaction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. But you'll support them on your own. We let the government in its political isolation look for the way out, without being able to break out of the chair of power. Finally, I am surprised to hear Mr Tsipras apologise for his holidays yesterday - with complete discretion - is the truth! - on a ship of his associate and businessman a few days after the hundredth of the dead in Matty. Apart from the moral part - I am not talking about it here, the citizens have understood - that I do not personally care if Mr Tsipras is succumbing to the secret charm of the bourgeoisie, if he is systematically hosted by big businessmen in villas or in lower places or if he appoints advisers of the big economic operators and among them some drachmas. Look into it. What I am interested in is that in the European Union and in the democratic world these innocent gifts to politicians, holidays, accommodations in villas and inferior, are simply illegal. There's no other word. These facilities and gifts are illegal either secretly or are clearly given. That is why transparency has been imposed everywhere in the civilised political world in taking gifts and other facilities. The Prime Minister's not sneaking out for a vacation. He's announcing it. He doesn't go anywhere and with any provision. He justifies it. Yesterday we saw a Prime Minister panicked saying that "I have good friends and they invite me to villas and lowers". So this is not what the irritated and no longer exposed to the citizens' crisis, Mr Tsipras. All of this and Mr Polakis will give you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, a vote of confidence tomorrow. I'm not jealous of your position at all. I am voting against a government that has fallen into the people's consciousness and will understand it when it decides to hold elections. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr. Shahinides from Golden Dawn has the floor for seven minutes. Get Mrs. Vakis ready and then Minister Vitsats will be ready. Here you go, Mr. Sahindi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, some moments also have crises of truth, such as the previous one, who spoke about the alleged Article 86, which has been voted on by PASOK. We fully agree that it is a plentiful matter. These, then, presented as expressions of political culture, ethos and self - control yesterday, gave us a great lesson. Even your own media, such as 'iefimerida', is entitled 'Shokat the Tsipra café'. Yesterday, in plenary, one of the worst sessions was recorded in the history of the Greek Parliament with protagonists Tsipras - Mitsotakis. The Greek people, like all of us in this Chamber, have witnessed a professional unbuilt telecons. You have succeeded and dismantled once again, as I have said repeatedly, politics. You managed to leave the Greek people watching from television receivers once again. In all reports or complaints of events made on either side, there were of course the useful idiot applauses from both sides, who were obsessed with what they heard from their leaders, from their so-called ones, from the intertwining of the two so-called gladiators. You'd be jealous of the late Artemis Machas. But, as the Chief and Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn said yesterday, Mr Michaloliakos, none of the two of the things he was accusing each other of. And that is what today is playing on many sites that show that everything that has been said is true, since neither one of them has taken a position. The question, however, arising from the controversy about who is less dangerous and not more competent, is that half of what was said yesterday, is criminal offences. Was there really a prosecutor listening? So, seeing the reaction of useful idiots, as I mentioned before and predicting the future, judging from the present and the past, I imagine you can applaud each other together. It is something that has, moreover, been recorded as a real event in the case of Treasury-Northern. And as a seal of what I say I call on Mrs Bakoyannis' statement that in 2015 there was a coexistence agreement between SYRIZA and the New Democracy and not just. We also have a large number of draft laws and amendments that you have adopted together, not of course for the benefit of Greek citizens, but always at their expense. Discussion today, then, of the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy and took it and the Prime Minister turned it into a vote of confidence, of course in this way he wanted to provide full coverage to Polakis. We have heard all this time that this is a rough Sfakian who has learned to behave like this. Sadly, however, as if it did not last one day, thirty years back - I shall submit it in the Minutes - a report that mentions Mr. Paulis as a member of the board of Directors of the Student Association head of two hundred and fifty ciders in the attack on the Sevastopol, because he dared - he says - to Oody, at the Medical School, to speak about the North Continent. And listen to the democratic views of the current Minister. The slogans were: 'Death to nationalists', 'Albanian border will reach Lamia', 'Sevatian fascist'. Rejoice him, Democrats! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have raised a serious, secondary issue, the repeated misery of the Minister, leaving behind and wanting to disorientate Greek citizens from the real serious problems they face in the economy, education, social welfare, unemployment, illegal immigration, immigration from Greek workers and scientists, and finally the very - very serious national issues. National issues, then. After betraying and selling Macedonia, you tolerate the daily challenges of the Turks and respond to lukewarm and submissive. In fact, I would like to point out to you here that if they finally succeed in the two plots of Cyprus, where it has not signed a contract with a company in Cyprus and are drilling, we will be finished. And once there is a plot of land where there is no interest in 'Exxonmobil' and 'TOTAL', French and American interests, be sure that no one will take a stand on this matter. So the upcoming SYRIZA election defeat will certainly not come from the hard opposition that the New Democracy has exercised. Jamie, Covenant, Prespecies Agreement, you've all signed it together. And since I am referring to the Prespecies Agreement, on the basis of the words of the Head of New Democracy Mr Mitsotakis yesterday that he supports Weber, I would remind him that no Member of the European People's Party, nor Vebber himself who supports it, was against the Prespecies Agreement. A set of European People's Party. To tell us that any New Democracy Member has taken the floor, if they support this policy of Webber, that the Prespecies's Agreement was correct. Measures announced by the Prime Minister in Zappeion. Tax reliefs, allowances of all kinds, are not money that has arisen from the recovery of the economy. It's not money that came from investment and development. The surpluses are the money of the Greek people, which you removed surgically, but without anesthetic. From an unnecessarily overtaxed tax which you have imposed, you want to tell us that the money has been created, from which you are paying dividends and subsidies mostly to Roma and illegal immigrants and a zero percentage to the rest of Greece. If you want to convince me, then, that better days are coming and the memorials are past, if you want to disprove me of what I said about where the money you're supposed to be using as a social policy, you will have to prove to us the origin of this money. Because, as I said before, there was neither economic growth nor investment. They came clearly from the overtaxation you have made to Greek citizens. So the common demand of the Greek citizens is the return of the dreams that you have deprived us of, is the return of the stolen ones, it is the return of those who have migrated from the application of your own policies, the justice of those who have lost relatives from the memoranda who have killed themselves, the justice of those who have lost relatives in Mandra and Matti. Finally, we call for the exemplary punishment of those who have abused public wealth. The thieves in prison and the stolen to the people. Finally, because yesterday she had her honorary and poetry, I was expecting the Prime Minister to close with poetry from a book very well-known to the poet "On word bodies". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is running, thirty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Ferra Evros and the 18th Municipal School of Lamia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Vaki has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the communication strategy of the keyhole and the trumpet recently adopted by the New Democracy demonstrates its overwhelming defeat in the field of positions, arguments and programmes. The "yellow" publication toxicity, illegal photographic material, Paulakis and the lower ones are dictated solely by your desperate attempt to shift the centre of gravity from positive measures to economic and social policy, for which we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss thoroughly today and tomorrow. The morality and crocodile tears, your late false sensations about your rights, which the entrepreneurs of the law and order, the irresistible suppression, the hidden or obvious racism have despised and circumvented, are disproved by your obsessions and ideals that expose you. The thirteenth pension as populism, the unnecessarily inappropriate gift of Christmas, the social state as a favor or privilege, the outdated eight hours, the anthems of flexible work and the mind of your chosen and faithful ally, Mr. Weber, against a European insurance for the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, you appear to be intimately sensitive to the fair demands of the disabled movement when your own governments had hit it in a variety of ways. Everyone remembers the suffering suffered by people with disabilities from the scarcity of rare medicines in the period of governance of Samaras. Everyone remembers how much disability benefits have been submerged. Everyone remembers the suffering suffered by disabled people to the disability certification committees. Everyone remembers the tragic shortages in special schools, where - I am passing away - this government, among other things, heals with four and a half thousand recruitments in special education, unless you consider them to be a pretext and a bonus. Everyone remembers that, in Samaras, the International Monetary Fund required disability benefits to be granted on the basis of income criteria and assessed in addition to disability and job capacity. If, for example, a mentally disabled person was judged fit for manual work, he would lose his allowance. However, everyone remembers that this government voted for Law 4488/2017, which incorporates the UN International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into Greek law. Who, in turn, introduced Law 4440/2016, which provides for a 15% recruitment rate in the public sector and in the wider public sector for disabled people? What government has, therefore, upgraded multi-faceted special education and training in line with the accession orientation? Who ensured universal and equal access not only to the uninsured, but also to the HEI in the public health system? Moral sermons from open - minded preachers of people’s natural inequality, from you who do not have any illusions about a society without inequality, are not accepted. If your rights are given selectively and hierarchically, if for you your rights are equal to the charity of the crumbs that have been obscured by the great foodstuff, for the Left rights are reserved to the man per se, regardless of individual accusations. They live at the core of our ideology and have been transformed into laws of the state. Because there had to be a left-wing government in this place to give the right to citizenship to immigrant children, in order to transfer from the middle-century to the innermost penitentiary system, in order to obtain rights for homosexual couples, in order to guarantee the right to self-determination in terms of gender identity, in order to ratify the Istanbul Convention on Racial Violence and Post-Medical Servation he is listening to in the name of trafficficking. Did you vote in favour of any of this, the ethics of morality and the detail of the parliamentary speech and life, which are affected by the cigarette of the Minister and the Prime Minister's cigar? Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the letter of the Greek Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the motions of censure must be made to enable the ministers, of course, to monitor their work and their policies. For example, check whether ministerial thugs are degenerated in corruption and black money blunders, if at night they sell hospitals to private individuals, if by means of acts and decisions they sign favorable to companies invoke drug pricing decisions, if they demolish public health, by transferring costs to the citizen, by dismissing thousands of doctors of the public health system. You know, the 'black' money in health has been estimated at EUR 23 billion, a memorandum of understanding. I do not know whether any motions of censure have been made because universal access to the public health system of all uninsured people, or why the 'ERRIKOS DUTY' has been returned to the ESS and the citizens, to the people, or because the shameful five-euro has finally been abolished, as was the abolition of the shameful underprivileged wage. Ladies and gentlemen, in toxic ruthlessness, in the keyhole and gossip, in the degeneration of public speech in a beside-political order, we respond with confidence in democracy and on this basis we call for a vote of confidence. The guiding principles of democracy are the rights, an irresponsible condition of democracy, the voice of the buffalo faces of society, the light to the invisible and defeated of history. Democracy, however, is also social justice. Developing and increasing the national wealth that you have used without a fair distribution replenishes the inequalities - which, of course, seems to be signing - and opens the Aelo's bourgeoisie in neo-fascist structures. This government of symposia, gangbangers, communists with the defective ideas, which should not be allowed to govern again or which in normal countries should be in prison, how much truthful proposals of resentment should we have tabled for your civil war misconduct? So this government has, at the moment, managed to have a liquidity reserve of EUR 31 billion, to repay the extremely expensive debts of the International Monetary Fund, to indirectly reduce the primary surpluses, but also to provide EUR 6 billion for society, for citizens to access basic goods. Because justice is not about escaping surpluses in offshore paradises, but about returning to where they belong in society. Apart from yellowism and the courtesy of your parliamentary speech, leading the citizen to depreciate politics, which we know very well where it leads, there is also the great picture right now and the great dilemmas. If you want to talk, let us discuss the major contradictions and contradictions that haunt Europe. Today is the anniversary of the end of World War II and the defeat of Nazism. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us face up to programmes, ladies and gentlemen. Are we going to attempt to re-establish the post-war social state, or are we going to vent the full deregulation of every protection framework? The selective, now, kinships of neoliberalism and extreme right are palsidides. In Pinochet's "Sicago Boys" programs, your cheering for coups and not free elections in the country of Maduro, your vows of faith in the International Monetary Fund and pension cuts, we opposed the policy that will give back work and dignity to many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u171	Ms. Vaki, if you'd like, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u172	Unfortunately, however, you now add a word 'yellow' and 'yellow', 'yellow', 'yellow' and 'yellow'. The only thing that New Democracy can do, unfortunately, is to feed back hatred for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much. Immigration Minister, Mr. Vitsats, has the floor. Minister, you have 15 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. I have a permanent question. Let me put it back, even though I don't expect an answer. But let us remember this again: How did the New Democracy and today's PASOK - to create a public debt of EUR 320 billion? How did these two parties manage to create a deficit of 15% every year? Do you know how much it's 15%? It's at least 30 billion. How did they do it? Will they ever tell us? It is important that the world remembers, that the Greek people remember where it all started. The second thing I want to say is that we're losing a chance. The opportunity is to discuss seriously what has happened and what will happen. Don't expect the New Democracy to take this opportunity. And you know why? Because it will be an automatic comparison between what we were discussing in 2014 and where the country was and what we are talking about in 2019 and where the country is. And only from this comparison would it come out that this government has done something good. And yet, I don't know how you felt yesterday from Mr. Mitsotakis' speech. I, you know, felt sad. It was a very sad speech. Whether with expressions of kindergarten "here, there he is" - even when we were young, we talked about them in kindergarten - whether by reproduction and adoption of all the make news, Mr. Mitsotakis made the "yellow" official political position. That is the main issue. It's the way to try to throw the ball at the platform. But he doesn't know that either, because he'll have to know that only in football from all the team sports, when someone throws the ball on the platform, he can win some delay. All the other sports stops time and comes back. So you will also be required by SYRIZA to place yourself on the real problems. Allow me to make a break. Speaking of yellowism and sport, I should also like to speak about Olympiacos. Olympiacos is a big team. But he's a team of his people. He's a group of his people. He is a team of Nikos Goda, the captain of ELAS who was executed in Lazaretos, Corfu, during the Civil War, wearing the Olympiacos shirt, wanting to show something. It is not a refuge for some strange presidents - old gourmets, now the new one - so that they can build a social base and think they can get away with it. These are clean things. And as much as he wants to support the New Democracy and start the debate on who is the best man - we are not interested in or interested in these kinds of relations - he will not succeed. However, I would like to tell you this: Those of you who think you have seen everything from the SYRIZA Members, those who think Mr Mitsotakis "finished it" yesterday are making a big mistake. You haven't seen anything. There is, indeed, a double threat to what Mr Mitsotakis said yesterday. One of us is involved. It tells us that there will always be a shadow behind us to watch where we are going to eat, where we are on vacation, how our personal life and a "yellow" type of large complex is ready to give these things north and a multitude of social media to produce and reproduce them. And not just to mess with one another, let me mess with the other. You have seen that "SKAI" is coming out, for example, and says "from valid sources of "KATHMERINI" and then comes out "KATHMERINI" and says "SKAI". I mean, one is making the other a valid source and it's over! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] But that's the least they've got to do, because they've got to be hampered with who they're dealing with. We come from far away and the things that scare Mr. Mitsotakis don't scare us. We have suffered a lot both as a party and as a person to fear what all curious plays on Drama's or Xanthi's website, and then the subject is the subject of the "Thema". But do you know what the second most dangerous is? It's a political whole. It is the policy of each Greek and it says to him: "Whoever opposes me and in my policy will treat him through yellowism." You will see this in front of the national elections in your regions. Katerini cases will be minimal in what they'll try to do. What they do not understand is that the same people will deal with them. His speech, however, was also sad programming. I would like to point out this: I was surprised that the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Hatzidakis, in other words - no reproach for him - has exhausted an eight-minute speech in 'cotterology' and in Scandalology. In addition to the huge surprise that may happen in this House, the other Vice-President will come and speak programmed - there is this case - I say that this is now beginning to become a second nature. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] So he said Mr. Mitsotakis yesterday that the New Democracy has a programme. He took it off, and he showed it to us already. The problem is not whether the New Democracy has a programme and Mr Mitsotakis will show us. First of all, the first problem is whether he read it, because if he had read it, he would have found three things. The first thing he would find is that there are within as claimable things that have already been done and done. I'll make a second parentheses about this story with 13% on the focus. Because we are a little old in here, we remember - and Mr Samaras can confirm this - that the agreement with the institutions or the troika was once and we will see how it goes. There was no second time because the government didn't go, not the measure. The measure was good to make it clear, see what it would be. They even blame us for copying them. Well, good, I'll take your place and not go on the other side, and we'll start talking about whether we copied or didn't copy. Why aren't you happy about that? Why don't you be glad that's happening and where, if you want, they have a community? Secondly, there are things that the New Democracy is blocking in the programme and in the public speech. The bad news about the New Democracy is that what is already not done is done. And now, let's not start saying 'Not said', 'He said it', 'He didn't say it'. There is an interview by Mr. Mitsotakis to Papadakis, where he says in a very clear way "No way. We do not have the opportunity at the moment to give a third pension.' Well, it was given now. It's a little back. There's a third thing. There are dangerous ideological convulsions within the program. What's the most dangerous of them? It is that the Memorandum Policy and everything that it brought about is seen as a well-established and correct data. Let me give you an example. Mr. Mitsotakis said so yesterday. He says, "What do we say? We connect the minimum wage to growth..." - this is written in the New Democracy programme about in the autumn, it says - "... and every time we have growth, then we will double and raise the minimum wage. If we do not have growth, the minimum wage will not rise, etc. Then what happened to him? It happened to him: The minimum wage from EUR 586 went to EUR 650 with us, that is to say, with 2.5% growth Mr Mitsotakis would do it after three years and the underpaid wage was completely abolished, that is, what Mr Mitsotakis would do after ten years. If this is not stressful, if it is not at the same time stressing to connect this to investment - I beg your pardon, but by the way, we have done more than you have done over the past few years - what should we say? And don't come and lie here, because you're putting both domestic investments and external investment, that is, an external factor, without seeing the dynamics a policy can create in the economy. And let me tell you another clue? How much did the wage costs come down during the memorial period? It's 27% down. How much did the prices get off at the same time? Not at all. Zero. To see the relationships of these things, if there is no politics and a government that takes you forward. The comrade Xinoyannakoulou previously said, and with specific examples of what has happened in the public administration and how fakely Mr. Mitsotakis acted yesterday, who usually says "say lies". So let me tell him ten things to tell me if it's a lie - I won't mention them here - because if he tells me that's true, then he's lying. He's not saved either by the communications consultants or by the American consultants and everything else. Because all this is tested, we won't invent it in Greece. Anyone at least who has seen how the elections took place in the United States and this time, knows how such an influence is being made, or even in America, they are looking to find out how they were created and whether they were created in Russia accounts, which are disposable and are trying to influence much more. And add something to what you said. I have the feeling that Mr. Mitsotakis has the logic that graduates in the future work in the cleanliness services of the municipalities. That's what I'm thinking. Going to the end to keep one or two other notes. Did you follow him yesterday when he said that the Prime Minister didn't come or that it wasn't done despite what I told Mr. Voutsi to hold a preliminary debate on a number of other things? He said about the refugee among them. Remember this: Beyond the frequent questions that he sometimes asks me when I am abroad Mr Varvitsiotis and who talks after me, who has done this to me and discussed this, I would remind him: On 29 October 2018 there was a debate on the topical question of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, seventy-three Members of the New Democracy, who took part in this debate of five Ministers. Four days later Mr. Mitsotakis tabled a request for a pre-dated order for debate. What's happened, I'm wondering? Either he was not happy, he was not satisfied with the performance of his parliamentary group - their own topic - or his parliamentary group was not informed at that time that there was a topical question for the whole of his parliamentary group, perhaps in the logic of 'what to inform him now', so that I would not go a little further. In any case, because he asked a question and I want to stand on it, the country's Armed Forces guard national sovereignty and borders from any invasion. And in these difficult times we have - if you like - full confidence in the leadership of the Armed Forces and the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and we can oppose any invasion. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] But because yesterday he started and told us: "I am with him, I am with the other, I am with the third", I wanted to do us a favor and tell us what they are with: With those who give the hand of solidarity and are fighting for legal migration procedures or those who consider refugees and immigrants invaders? Because Mr. Orban says that. That's what she thinks. Now listen, even though I took the time, so I'll hang up with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen of the progressive alliance, we have chosen, as we always do - and so we are going to oppose - programming, say what we have done, say what we have done, say our failures and say what we are going to do, what we are going to do and where we support them. I liked this one the other day, what we said we'd do this, the money is so much, and we'll get it out of there and do that. We are not saying that we will reduce the space and hide that we will dismantle the public and the social state. We don't do these things. But even that's what New Democracy chose to roll into the mud. And it's an extra reason to beat them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u176	We've heard a lot of fake dilemmas. Mr. Vitsa, just one answer, why do you ask? And you ask repeatedly, even though you have received all the answers. We are talking about a policy that guards the borders, protects human rights in refugees and tells illegal immigrants that you know that you are not welcome and through legal procedures we want to return them from where they came, in a living of dignity. None of this has ever worked. And that's our big difference. But let's go to the bottom of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the political life of the country for many years, and I have seen many governments which are in a state of dismissal. I've seen many political leaders face electoral defeat. And I have seen many parties of power whose executives fear in front of the apparent defeat and loss of positions of power. I've never seen any Prime Minister turn any political opposition into a personal conflict. And if we are talking about a Left, as you imagine it, and as it was shaped in the common consciousness over the years, I never remember Elias, Leonidas Kyrkos, nor the recent leaders of the coalition, Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Alavanos, in tough constituencies here, addressing this Italian style, transferring the debate of the cafeteria and the style of the cafeteria to Parliament. Many people wondered and said that after the coffee shop's dress came to the House, there would also be fate sometime and the coffee shop's style in the dialogue. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in any government Mr Paulakis, following his comments on Mr Kymbouropoulos, would have been removed. No Prime Minister would have held him. And many of you, many of you in public, some in private, many more I imagine, had reacted to this attack by Mr. Paulis. I do not believe that Andreas Papandreou, Constantine Karamanlis, Costas Karamanlis, George Papandreou, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Costas Simitis would have kept as Minister and, in the health field, a man thus exposed to a crippler who makes a life struggle. And instead of having seen either his expulsion or his marginalisation, we see the Prime Minister come and become Paulakis yesterday. We see the Prime Minister coming here and saying that this man who struggles, you walk around as a pot. And finally lead all of you to identify yourself with that style and that spirit. I judge Mr Polakis and I judge him very strictly both for his style and for the effectiveness of his policy and for his style the market in mid-night - influenced - I imagine he is also a boulevard Cretan rack - Facebook posts, but also for his effectiveness with the images of cancer patients waiting for their medications for hours, with his choices such as people not related to their health, the people who were working as vulcanizers, who are placed in various hospitals as Governors and so on. I also believe that it has also made a policy which has ultimately favoured specific interests in the field of medicines, and in a way which also causes many questions. But we've been in another era. And this other time has shown something. We're not in 2014 again. We are not at the time when SYRIZA would abolish austerity, privatisation, restore normality to the economy and society. We are at a time when SYRIZA has implemented the toughest austerity, which has gone ahead with a privatisation programme, with which you were vertically opposed and protesting and has been deprived of the main political impediments. Instead of sitting here and looking at the real political differences, you are fortified behind an extreme and market look. Know that this will be very problematic the next day, because political change will take place and you will not be forever in power. But Mr. Tsipras will be an isolated political leader, who will not be able to sit on the same table after the style he has used, to make serious decisions on national issues. We have differences. The Greek people will condemn you for your policies and for the failures of your policy. This is the fate of democracy. He will condemn you for your policies on national issues, condemn you for your policies on security, justice and tolerance, as well as on immigration issues. With Mr. Vitsa, we can have a tough political dialogue with different starting points. He believes that the refugee and illegal immigrant are the same. I believe that they are two different people with two different rights frameworks and we will prove how we can finally make our country safe. You are finally returning after four years of incomplete policies, slowly slowing down the economic situation where you received it. What are you talking about VAT? You received the VAT at 13%, kept him five years at 24% and brought him back to 13%. That's what you do, you don't do anything magical. Just prove and confess to the Greek people that the SYRIZA experiment was a four-year failure and that is why you will be condemned. But do not turn the style of your protract, which you want to say is both modern and progressive, not to turn yourself into Polakis. Because this ultimately does not represent either Greece of 2019 or the agony of the Greek citizens and the young people who aspire to a better future, nor of course the harmony that we should display in serious national challenges, which seems to open up before us in an uncertain and unstable world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Varvitsiotis. The Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the KIC, Mr Lambroulis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Once again in the same spectators work! In the well-known, thousands of work aimed at deceiving and disorientating the people. A project that his script, addressing the people, tells him that he should endure sacrifices without end, stirring up the living room by taking it past - forgetting everything that has been lost - perhaps at one time, when the budget figures allow it and the bourgeois governments do so - to throw away any crumbs of the fame of capitalist profitability that has been built through tax exemptions, privileges, privatisations and reinforcement of the entire anti-Serbian arsenal. This is an anti-popular direction, which also marks the stability programme submitted by the government a few days ago for the period 2019-2022 to the European Commission, with a further escalation of the tax-pay and the people's'match', with interventions and collapsing further health funds by half of GDP, education and saying. In this work, people will not bite. Don't fall into the trap he's set up to get caught in front of and in the elections. Because, behind all this curiosity, the commitment of all parties, their strategic involvement in the anti-grassroots policy of capital and the European Union, which breaks down the rights and needs of workers, pensioners, self-employed people, people with disabilities. Thus, any announcements and interventions by the government on the one hand are intended to cultivate'sulp' expectations of positive measures, on the other hand New Democracy, PASOK and the other parties are talking about impulse, when the truth is that what is legislated in no way will change the anti-popular reality that the people live for and for which all other parties are bound. In no case will there be any discussion of the biggest scandal, such as the political worsening of the health care conditions of the people, since for the sake of business groups there are further cutbacks in public health expenditure, benefits being cut, payments and carpeting for the purchase of services in health are being imposed, public health establishments are being subordinated, business groups are being strengthened in health, medicine, etc. Thus, the wishes of equal participation, non-discrimination, and others, in the language of the European Union's disability strategy mean the greatest possible exemption for capital and its state from the costs of supporting disabled people and strengthening the deeply reactive, racist idea of individual responsibility. Because both the aim for the disabled and their disability is to cost the state and the business groups cheaper, so that the additional needs of the disabled are exploited by the producer groups of products, goods and services for extra profits, while the State's contribution to a minimum of those who are part of the extreme poverty and impoverishment created by the present government, as well as by the previous governments. In addition, in the name of the gospel of the Euro-Union strategy you are sworn out of all the other parties, did you not vote together, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK and Potami, the third memorandum containing the express commitment to to towels by half of GDP, that is, by EUR 900 million of welfare funds? The responsibilities of both the current government and the former are enormous and criminal against the rights of disabled people and their families. In fact, the SYRIZA Government is taking the lead, as it continues and completes the dirty work of the previous ones, since, for example, in the context of the inhuman strategy of the European Union, it is implementing the introduction of the use of disability functionality, in order to reduce disability rates, cut allowances and pensions, cut down and reduce government expenditure, thus expanding the number of disabled people who themselves need to meet an even greater of their additional needs because of their disability. And all this against the rights of the SNEs is scientifically enforced. Here to remind us that even before the crisis, in 2002, the PASOK unsuccessfully tried to pass this measure, then New Democracy attempted it until SYRIZA succeeded. At the same time, however, when with the criminal policies of SYRIZA - New Democracy - PASOK loses people with disabilities and their families, thousands of SYRIZAs are struggling for whether they will salvage the petty allowance or disability pension from the KEPA slaughterhouse, since in the five-year period 2012-2017 hundreds of thousands of people from seven hundred thousand who went through committees have remained without disability allowance and pension while children with severe mental discomfort, i.e. they have reduced the rate of under 67%, had the right to indirect insurance to their parents, but also the right to transfer pension to them in the event of their death. More than 40% of Greek households with disabilities are deprived of basic living materials, so our country ranks in this area in the second highest position in the European Union. Unemployment among the hard-to-working disabled exceeds 95%, and it is even a mockery of encouragement and not even the imposition, for the implementation of certain rates of employment in the public and private sectors, when flexible forms of work are provided, when the small and medium-sized enterprises - and not only, but especially the small and medium-sized enterprises - need a stable working environment and working hours. In special schools, in what they operate, they were studying about ten thousand pupils, reduced by 50% compared to ten years ago when they needed a special treatment of more than two hundred thousand students. Thus, for example, of the thirty - thousand children with heavy autism, only five hundred are in a public or private center, while of the two thousand blind and four to five thousand with partial blindness at the age of less than 18 only fifty attend any form of education. Of course, the list is long, while the impact on the families of small and medium-sized enterprises and the majority of the people are serious, dangerous and tragic, and on the issues of health services, on the medicine, due to the implementation of the structural changes that have been voted on concerning: Firstly, the continued drastic reduction in government spending and their transfer to workers and poor people. Secondly, maintaining the current disastrous situation in the public health system. In fact, it is a challenge for the Prime Minister - but also for other speakers - to refer to overcrowds of hospitals, when at the same time we all know the people more, but also the workers in hospitals, in what state they operate, work and provide services. Thirdly, the continuation of a reduction in state funding, a basic package of minimum benefits, in proportion to real and modern needs. Fourthly, the cuts and caps of public pharmaceutical expenditure, thus escalating patients' payments at around 30% today, from 9% in 2009, while patients reached these years to date to 43.1% more, compared with the state by 57.7% less for medicines. Here, then, is the fact that the famous rationalisation of public pharmaceutical expenditure in the first eight months of 2018 cost the patient's pocket an additional 280 million euros, which were deducted from the expenditure that had to be borne by the EEA. And while you break the people, at the same time you share packs of hundreds of millions of pharmaco-industrial gifts, either by changing the way the price of medicines is calculated or through the clawback mechanism. Of course, as far as medical care for the people is concerned, there are no signs of confrontation between SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, KINAL and the other parties, but also between you and the other parties, you continue to make fun of the people, and you are fighting harder about who will relieve the people more of the burdens you have charged with, faithful to the commitments you have made to continue anti-grass politics, for bloody surpluses for decades ahead, with the continuation of tax fraud and cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u180	I shall conclude, Mr President. And now you come through a disgraceful performance that you set up, to sell 'a comfort to the sick' with the ethos and styles of given - both anti-popular politics in order to hide your conspiracy, your agreement to the main anti-popular strategic choices. And since the people have seen this disgusting performance many times, like their anti-grass finale, they can draw conclusions and reject, burn all the anti-grass scripts and the role of the spectator that you hold up to them all the urban parties, become the same protagonist in evolution and in the struggle to satisfy their modern needs. Guarantee for this is the decisive support of the JRC in the upcoming elections in municipalities, regions, in the European Parliament and in parliament, whenever they occur. Because with the JRC stronger, the only hopeful and racing response can be given to the rot that the system managers are breathing. For these reasons, Mr President, we are voting against the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Christoforos Papadopoulos, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Immediately after the Minister of State, Mr. Vernardakis and the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Partnership, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u182	The motion of censure of Officerial Response to Paul Paul Paul Paul was a gift to the government. Besides, the Prime Minister said so. At the same time, however, it is a gift for us, the SYRIZA Members. It gives us a great opportunity to revert to a five-year regression now and the prospect. We didn't have this opportunity. We've always talked subdivisionly, that bill, the other measure. It gives us the opportunity to develop what our plan is for the end of monuments, the overcoming of austerity, discrimination, the redefinition of the social state, a project that we have built four years, slowly, leapy years, since we had to deal with gods and demons, local and imported, by extortion, arrogance, convoys, lies, insults and slanders. We've put up with it. We did it with stubbornness and devotion. We chose to stay and fight in the adverse conditions. We didn't surrender and we didn't deliver. We didn't hide in the enmity of symbols or in the expectation of better times. It is not just by revealing capitalism or neoliberalism and markets. We were trying to give the battle to every field, every moment, every opportunity, every opportunity that the juncture gave us, if you like, the correlation of power. In the first few years, we fought for the basics, to tackle the humanitarian crisis, the solidarity allowance, the insurers, the hospitals and the schools, the refugee crisis. After all, for industrial relations, primary care, discrimination and human dignity. For peace and friendship in the region, with the Embassy Agreement emblematically. For me, the feat is that we have reduced unemployment by 10 percentage points and, in terms of a memorandum and a high, disproportionately high surplus. We've blocked young people's fleeing. They're opening new jobs. Allow me here to give you a parentheses. The image I want to throw out of my mind is the padlocks, the despair of the world, the pension of the grandfather who has nourished the whole family, the people looking for food in the garbage cans. It's not a war picture or a civil image. It is the picture of 2012-2014 and we cannot forget it, the image of an experienced reality, which colleagues of Anti-Population forget it, do not mention it, do not examine it. Who created it? Did SYRIZA 2015-2019 create the humanitarian crisis, the 300 billion debt, the devaluation of labour? Apparently, no. And from there on, KINAL's colleagues behind it wonder how it is possible to have taxes, to have coercive, to have surveillance, as if they were bloodless, drama-owned. In August 2018, we took the country out of the memoirs. The debt settlement, of course, had taken precedence, the clean road for at least fifteen years to turn to normality. In these ten months, we were given the opportunity to develop our own programme for the world of work, the populace, for social protection. Do you know what the paradox is? That the New Democracy chose to peak its attack with the motion of censure on the pic, the top point of the development of our programme, with the government's positive measures, on the days when the hundred and twenty instalments, the insurance funds, tax and local government were being discussed. In fact, the law on the protection of first residence with the grant of rent and housing loans, the restoration of collective agreements, the increase in the minimum wage, had taken precedence. In a few days' time, in fact, they already knew this, and the newspapers were writing it before we even gave the interview - new measures are coming with tax relief, basic food, energy, feeding, pensioners' pensioners' pensions. A rough answer says it's another mistake, another Gabe of the Head of New Democracy. Another will say that it is another failure of the communication staff, another foul of the New Democracy strategic planning team. Personally, I don't believe these interpretations. On the contrary, I believe every day and more that the New Democracy follows a recipe, the recipe of Trump and Bolsonar, Brazil, the recipe of post-democracy, the biopolitical management of fear, insecurity, the absence of prospect for large parts of the population. It replaces politics and democracy through fear management. In this sense, it is not new, it is not unprecedented either Scandalology, make news, nor constructed news. Instead, these are successful recipes in other parts of the world, of course. I do not believe, for example, that yesterday Mr Mitsotakis thoughtlessly spoke exclusively of scandals. Use the terror once again. He spent time on Paul and Madour and left outside the basics of political and programming confrontation, even though it was caused by Alexis Tsipras repeatedly. The Chief of New Democracy has deep confidence in the handling of information, in the manufactured news, in the pluralism virus, as experts call media control by major economic interests. The misfortune of course of the New Democracy and its Chief is that here is not the Americas of Trump or Latin America of Bolsonarro. We live in a politicised society, which is not being lured into cheap tricks and communication tricks. And this will prove very quickly in the next elections, in the European elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. In an agreement we had - and thank you, Mr President-in-Office - Mrs Kefaloniann will take the lead in attending an obligation. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Bernardakis and Mr. Loverdos will be followed. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the recent unprecedented behaviour of the Deputy Minister of Health, the Greek Parliament is now called upon to ratify with its vote his confidence in the government of Mr Polakis, a government that has been moving on the path of the absolute reappointment of everything: democratic values, rules and institutions. For four years we have been looking for a moral advantage in this Chamber. But in vain. The recent racist and brutal position of the Deputy Minister of Health is the top of the iceberg of the political vulgarity that exists in this government as a whole. After all, this is also borne out by the full coverage enjoyed by the Prime Minister himself by the policy of mercilessness and cynicism, a policy that spent the sacrifices, but also the hopes of the Greeks in the systematic lie, consciously, not fraudulently. Because your delusion has been over since the summer of 2015. You, however, continue with the emphasis to bet your political survival on the constant deception of Greek society. The reality, however, is inconsistent and betrays you in the consciousness of all Greeks. Since the new year, therefore, employees and pensioners, who have already cut them off by the CSCE, will pay tax, since they receive an income of more than EUR 600 and EUR 700 per month, while so far they have not paid. We therefore call on the ruling party to vote in favour of the amendment brought by the New Democracy to the House, which will not reduce duty-free. Otherwise, the election package announced by the Prime Minister the other day will come in and come out. Greek citizens know that by signature SYRIZA they were charged with twenty-nine additional taxes. Greek citizens know that with your policy you are consciously raising the generation of 360 euros, while this unjustified generation of twenty years, thirty years and over forty years is fleeing home, in order to seek its self-evident right and the corresponding opportunities for academic progress, the reward, social familiarity and merit, and all that you deprive her of by obsessive attachment to power. After dismantling the middle class, you have wiped out the small and medium-sized enterprises, plunged employees and retired people into impoverishment, handed over education to the chaos and the abyss of state and immunity. You have delivered the country to national humiliation, signing a nationally detrimental agreement with Skopje, just as you have been deceiving for four years and the cultural area. As a government you have put your political stamp on unjustified bleeding of incalculable public revenues from cultural resources. It is the fifth year the country welcomes its guests with closed refreshments and licensed sales in its archaeological sites and museums. The online ticket has been at a pilot stage since last year, while you have announced its installation already since 2015. You have completely excluded the modern cultural heritage from your political agenda. You have drugged copyright. We are also waiting for the regulation to protect the concession of ownership and management of monuments and archaeological sites in the supranational privatizations, if anything from the unprecedented in the historical time outlet of the Greek cultural heritage that you have drunken since the summer of 2015. Because the protection of culture is a constitutional obligation, not a political obligation, as the Minister responsible said. In the four years of governance SYRIZA one is your work: the drunken and systematic deterioration of all major issues of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place in Parliament shows in the clearest way that soon the SYRIZA Government will be in the past. This is shown by the speech by colleagues of the Complex, the collapse of the arguments, the end of the rhetoric that SYRIZA had been building so long. The Greek people are soon called upon to give their strong response to the divisional speech, populism, pheasantness. Starting on 26 May, Greek citizens will, by their vote in the European elections and in the self-government elections, give the clear message of political change, of change of style, of ethos, of change of attitude to politics. And a change message means a strategic victory for the New Democracy in all the elections. Because only in this way can we, together with the Greek people, make a great turn towards a more democratic and fairer state, build an inclusive society, with equal opportunities in employment, pay, insurance, health, a solidarity society, away from bankrupt models, where development and entrepreneurship will go hand in hand with social welfare and the defence of citizens' rights, where the vision of a more quality education and education will not conflict with obsolete ideas so that we can motivate the great human capital of the country to remain home, so that we can finally bring back all those who left the country in the years of the crisis, having established a new relationship of trust with the state, in relation to terms of sovereignty, transparency and legitimacy, to give Greek citizens pride, dignity and faith that our country is a place of their personal, family and professional prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-two students and students and four teachers attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Perama Rethymno. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of State, Mr. Bernardakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin on the occasion of today's debate, which was the pretext of reproach of the New Democracy in Paul Polakis. This is because, in my opinion, the management of the issue and the work of both disability and the candidate Member of the New Democracy is an unprecedented practice of institutional racism, because I am going to support it first. The President of the New Democracy is constantly using the stigmatistic term "fighter of life", attacking his candidate and all the disabled. The damage the disabled have to their bodies doesn't make fighters. This is the highly medical-centrifugal approach which considers that the difficulties of the disabled come from their own individual restrictions. The way in which society meets their needs makes them disabled and not their individual physical condition. We have ratified it by law of the State, No.4488/2017: The definition of the International Convention on the Rights of Disabled Persons. I read in words: "In disabled people, people are included with long-term physical, mental, spiritual or sensory damage, which, in interaction with various obstacles, can hamper their full and effective participation in society on an equal footing with others". The way the New Democracy candidate presented insulted the disabled groups in our homeland. The title of newspapers and televisions is "The perfect person against the bone". It offends the four disabled candidates of SYRIZA, Panagiotis Kouroublis, Constantina Kuneva, George Christakis, Antonis Rellas and the disabled candidates of all parties. He called on the theory of personal tragedy, highlighting the real, obviously, personal difficulties of the candidate, Stelios Kymburopoulos, saying inaccurately that he wants to send to the European Parliament for the first time a man with a very heavy disability, he means harm, while in the European Parliament he is five disabled, among them Marek Pluras from Poland with heavy kinetic damage. The core of the manipulation game by New Democracy is no other than trying to control social counterparts, delimiting the permitted limits of the question, because through the convenient image of the candidate MEP, New Democracy is attempting to cover everything that it has done against the lives of disabled people in our country, horizontal cuts in disability benefits and pensions, refusal to ratify the UN Convention on Rights, public rights exclusion legislation, such as the law of excellence for entry into the dramatic schools, refusal to legislate against the wheelchairs' lives for 15% of recruitments in the public, refusal to apply the Directives on accessible cities, public transport, beaches and so many others to which Members will be able to refer. What Kyriakos Mitsotakis really believes in disability acted on as Minister of Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance, when he closed all the offices of AMEOs with the new organizations of the Ministries, for which he was responsible in October 2014. The President of the New Democracy in the debate on the Prespecies Agreement said: "Whoever votes yes, becomes the winner of a crippled system of power that wants to drag with him and the country." That doesn't need a motion of censure? Isn't it the typical racist pattern when the disability is identified as bad, anti-national and insulting? A similar example of racist speech is the provocative statement by a New Democracy MEP: "Let him attack a man - Paulis means - who stands at the same height as him". According to the perception of equality that this Member of Parliament has, Paulakis is causing, unsatisfactory and insulting a man with whom he is differentiating his physical characteristics, as if Paulakis were provoking Kymbouropoulos in a struggle of Greek-Roman wrestling. But also the placement of today's New Democracy MP, at the edge of his spontaneous speech, states about the appointment of the deputy commander to "Evangelism" by reproducing the most heinous stereotype: "Do you know what 92% disability means? It means that the man must not leave his house." That doesn't need a motion of censure? These statements are typical of a serious ideologic intake of disability by the New Democracy. Apart from working on this matter, these statements hide, firstly, a disgusting paternalism, where adult and therefore responsible for his choices and politically active candidates are not a competent political opponent, but only worthy of protection. Why then did the New Democracy choose him as a candidate? Why does he have political reason and vision to deal with the burdens of disability and the representation of his voters, whether or not, with the European institutions, or why should he cause the pity or other feelings to the voter? And how much does the candidate feel about this image himself? Second, they hide an extreme individualism. The candidate MEP in this understanding is conducting an individual, personal struggle to overcome the consequences of disability and is a hero thanks to his personal efforts. It therefore urges our disabled fellow citizens to seek equal opportunities by reviving molecules, benefits and favors. Undoubtedly, of course, is it worth admiring himself for efforts to overcome disability, but has it not been put into the labour market by means of regulations, public policies, interventions by the state and its coordinates, in other words, because of all that is being expelled? There are no equal rights in this concept. There are only equal opportunities. But the big question in the modern history of societies was, is, and will be: What are equal opportunities for structurally inequality people, in unequal societies? How many equal opportunities will it fit when the New Democracy ideology thinks inequality is a natural phenomenon? And as has been said in the years of the French Revolution, when equality and freedoms, collective and individual, have been placed on the bench of society: What is the value for someone who does not know written and reading, the opportunity of freedom of expression? Thirdly, these statements also conceal an attempt to demilitarise disability. The emergence of the issue of disability for the neoliberal right lies in its dismantling in reality, namely the concealment of the political attachment to ideological uptake, which is the usual practical response to political risks from neoliberalism in all areas. In our case, there is an effort to deal with the manipulation of public dialogue, major social issues facing disability, from the field of political awareness to a philosophical margin, and therefore to resolve disability issues by means of decisions in the context of client-private relations, with corresponding political benefits, the measures taken to be taken as charity or subject to para-economic transactions. New Democracy won't hide behind the pretexts. Given that we are before the European elections, it is an opportunity to tell us what its opinion is about the refusal of the European People's Party to ratify the European Accessibility Act, which is a central part of the institutional chain to achieve independent living, which is also needed by its candidate. The European People's Party refused to include the act in the structured environment in the audiovisual and media sectors, in the means of transport, in products such as household appliances, while insisting on the complete exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises from the obligations of the operation in the name of disproportionate costs, and refused to extend the act of accessibility other than disabled persons and persons at risk. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity for all these reasons which are given to us to unfold before us and above all before the Greek society real political plans, not only for disability, but also for work, rights, political and individual freedoms. Behind the phrase of Stelios Kymbouropoulos: "I do not need any favours and benefits", however innocence one sees in the same person - and so it is - we will remember the unbearable pressures of the International Monetary Fund to support in 2017 his proposals on operational disability, with which he would obtain a huge financial surplus, but which would be thrown into Caucasus only in Greece and exceptionally all European reality, the disabled, the disabled and the social state. It is an opportunity today and tomorrow, of course, to state officially in this debate whether or not it agrees with the proposals made by the International Monetary Fund for operational disability, namely, the absolute reduction of the social state and its protective networks, if the disabled can 'operate', i.e. work, protect themselves on terms of their own. However, in general, because disability is a study, for example, we would say, about what society and what work we want, it is an opportunity to learn and answer some of the key questions, questions that lie behind the secret programs and advice of various supposedly scientific centres. Will our development plan be based on new human resources and on high conditions and wages, as it is entitled to, or will we continue to talk about high wage costs and the need to reduce wages? Will workers provide their work under fixed working hours, or will the logic of employment be the 'ladder', where workers will be invited to work a card without the recognition of overtime and overworking? Will workers continue to enjoy holidays and be paid in the event of employment during the course of the holiday, or will they become the Sunday north of the employer's arbitrariness? Will they be protected against dismissals and vengeance or will rules apply to strengthen their position and the right to work? And what about the strike? Will workers be able to resort to it when their basic rights are threatened or should they have to pass through the hottest doubles? Will collective agreements come back to full and enlarged force or will the reasoning of the Letonian prefecture in favour of the labour force prevail? Will workers end their working life in order to claim decent pensions for a fair redistributive system, or will we go to the logic of a privatised insurance company that cuts pensions and promotes the interests of insurance companies? What about the public sector? Will we have a modern operating public with a social sign that will not be afraid to recognise that there is a problem and an increase in wages and a return of the tenth wage and the gift, which will meet the increased needs of the social state, which will also play a role in development, in a state which I recall has the lowest average wage in Europe, or will the logic of contraction prevail, the Memorandum 1 to 5 and the privatisation of the critical functions proposed by neoliberalism? Are we going to have public education, health, social security accessible by all citizens, or bleed from misery, private care and drug trafficking in partnership with insurance companies? It is a key dilemma in Greek society. The political plans on the occasion of this debate, which is taking place on a major issue, a political issue and not an individual issue, the political issue of disability, are before us and, of course, before the Greek people and no one will hide behind pretexts or ignorances. In this plan, the government asks for Parliament's confidence, and in particular with this plan in a few months' time, the Greek people will ask for their trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Minister Vernardakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House, firstly, that the Ministers for Health and Finance, the Deputy Minister of Health and the Deputy Minister of Finance, today, have tabled a draft law: "Surrendering the donation contract between the Greek State, the Children's General Hospital of Pentelis and the Counsellors of Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant". Secondly, the Ministers for the Environment, Energy and Finance, as well as the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, tabled a draft law today: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Azerbaijan on the protection of the environment". Thirdly, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister for Economy and Development, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Economic and Rural Development and Food, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development and Energy have today tabled a draft law: "Building the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and on the fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use, to the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in six months' time two proposals of confidence were made to this House. I repeat that, in six months' time, two proposals of confidence were made to this House. Do you doubt yourself? One was January, and the other was now. Perhaps one should think that some of you are right to doubt at least, because with so many parliamentary alchemys you are holding in this House, because there is no parliamentary alchemy that you have not done, it would be reasonable to ask for every three and a little confirmation of this House that you are, at least in your seats. You are a government of parliamentary alchemys with disposable loaning politicians. No one says big words in the House when we have elections in front of us, but some of the people you borrowed to make a little government will never see them again and will never see Greek political life again. Your attitude, political and parliamentary, last year especially, is innocence, with arrogance, insulting and daily vulgarities. The examples do not end. The generalisation of the reproach which the New Democracy colleagues wanted to make and its conversion to a proposal of confidence means politically adopting the vulgarity and sharing of whatever vulgar things they have heard from a member of the government to all members of the government and after the vote tomorrow evening and to all members who will vote in favour of confidence in the government. That is why we did not agree yesterday with the objection made by the New Democracy by Mr Denkias. I asked the President of Parliament for the floor in vain. He didn't give it to me. I thought I'd like to say something parallel. On the contrary, I wanted to say that it was very wrong to object to the procedure that they had done. But the President of Parliament has not given me the floor. He did not see me and then when I told him that he invoked the decision of the Conference of Presidents, but violated it on his own, because he could say: After you give the Prime Minister 20 minutes, he cannot speak sixty. After you give 20 minutes to the Chief of Staff, he can't speak sixty-seven. It is your fault because, first of all, at the Conference of Presidents you did not say that they would speak more and here it is your fault because you are giving them the floor to continue with what was going on yesterday. That's why we were yelling and we didn't do it for the first time. We didn't do it like the Prime Minister, who was very badly doing the President of Parliament, ordered me to sit down. Who now? He's the one with me. He was yelling at me to sit down like he's a president of the House. But what we wanted to say was not about him. It was about the procedure. Since it is a debate between the political leaders, the Rules of Procedure are dominated, and he is the only President of the House who leaves these hours. Everyone also made a reminder that time passes, that there are others in the Chamber, and they must take the floor. So you have anti-parliamentary behavior. He reminded me a moment ago - I don't remember on what occasion - he's a Prime Minister. He reminded us here. Yesterday he also substituted Mr. Voutsi for his duties. I would like to say a word about the subject that was the core of this debate here today. The violation of apparent rights of disabled people by a member of the government, ultimately by the Prime Minister and shortly by all of you. Is that an exception? No exceptions are, ladies and gentlemen. We were not here a few weeks ago when we discussed the resignation of Mr Giorgos Stavropoulos, former Vice-President of the Council of State and President of the Hellenic Authority for the Protection of Rights and on the same day the letter of the respective President of all these organisations in the Member States of Europe? We were here, weren't we? We were not here when the sexual harassment of the Venezuelan ambassador, the former, to workers at his embassy, and you, who are being cut out for equality and rights, have not spoken and have been five years and are still silent? Aren't you the ones who have demonstrated institutional barbarism in terms of the functioning of the independent authorities that you have gone to 'plant' your own people in justice to do what you have done? Aren't you? It's you. So it is not strange what was heard at the expense of a disabled person and as the Prime Minister covered him, and you will cover all this vulgarity with the vote tomorrow night! I have said many times that in the House, the biggest mistake of a politician, who has a number of years, is to display double data! But for me, but for you. To defend double standards of power, but also to defend the opposition and the members of the opposition, I think it is very, very sad and revealing of what kind of quality that authority has. Haven't you tried institutional barbarism in 2015 and 2016 in relation to the media? Didn't you go to form a National Broadcasting Council in an anti-constitutional manner? You do not reveal every day and more that you know not only who will get licensed on the channels, but who will also make political emissions. You're the ones. You're, above all, the one who's turned the Justice Department into a SYRIZA Department. It is a matter of short time before we speak with more specific information and conditions on these issues. However, beyond the rights issues, the Prime Minister, I believe, in a constitutional way, has turned a motion of censure against a member of the government into a proposal of confidence. It's happened before. Indeed, if the President gave me the floor yesterday, which he did not give me, he did what he did not see me, and I would say on how many occasions my scientific quality has allowed me to have done the recordings for many years. However, once the debate is general - and I have said so in one of my speeches to Mr Gavroglou - every member of the government has the right to come here to say how he works in his area. And since I see in the Chamber of a number of Ministers, I change my mind's layout and I will speak about their own ministries: Development, Mr. Minister of Development, you are behind the needs of the Greek economy that everyone admits that in order for shocking surpluses to come out, we should also have shocking growth rates to cover distances. You are the government that has changed, if I am not mistaken, three or four Development Ministers and even for symbolic projects of development, but for smaller ones you do not really have to show before the Greek Parliament. I regret, Mr. Pitsirla, that I praised you as President of TIAD, who you were then, for the course of the Greek in a television station. I regret that, because we arrived in 2019 and have not seen, no Greek citizen has seen any progress in this work, which is symbolic work, but much more. I would remind my dear and dear colleagues of what we have had here with Mr Papadimitriou on development issues, how many discussions, how many words we have broken in vain. Do you remember what he said, how much he said about laws that he suggested and which were actually revealed were not implemented, why were they drugged by their arrest? You've dissolved the middle class. And anyone who breaks the middle class in a Member State of the Eurozone and the European Union pays this electorally because it is the largest social class. I have here, and I remember the debate when we were discussing the budget, because there are ministers you can discuss with them, that it has cost the measures of the New Democracy programme then, Mr. Juliarakis. Because two - three of these we have and we recommend, first of all, we took the floor and said to him: 'Why say, for example, about the VAT on the catering, which had gone to 13% and took him 24% and about the products that man buys from the supermarket?' I told him: “Why are you doing this? Why do you cost what a government had done a few years ago?' He gave answers to a list of Members, ladies and gentlemen, who on a list betrayed his refusal to adopt these measures. Now, all of a sudden, because you're cramped, you're asking to be disembodied and you present a set of measures that will apply to 90% from 2020 onwards, when you're not going to be government. Pressure brings allegiance, but with allegiance you cannot create an economic, development policy. He was here and gave me the idea - I'm changing level, I'm going side by side - which is your Undersecretary of Sports. This is the first time that in the finals of the Greek Championship Championship, we see this downhill: A little dead last year, this year without fans. This is the first time that the Greek professional basketball championship has been screwed. It is a minister who has been roaming, announcing measures for two years, who have never done so, announces that he will bring laws that he does not bring, make statements, comeco-tracting sometimes. I remind you of what he said on a Sunday where there were parallel racing obligations in football and basketball. One regrets to note that the leadership of such a critical and sensitive area of quality of life there is a minister who can boast that he has passed and did not understand or did nothing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I don't have much time. I have a minute. I will ask the President to one more - Mr President, I would ask you for another minute - to speak about the world outside the Chamber and perhaps he is watching us. Elections are coming. We have to deal with this - I live every day - a recent past - there are discussions on this - of the three elections in 2015. In 2015 you held three elections: two parliamentarians and a referendum. You've earned all three and you're leaning on it. There is no government, ladies and gentlemen, that wins elections and does not regain them if it does them in one or two months or six months or in one year. There is a political prefecture, caused by the charm of the winner. There's also a multiplier operating on Monday after the election. We have this and tasted and experienced as a political organization: Sunday's winner, on Monday, has voters who voted on Monday, who have not voted for him, on Sunday, but who go with the first. You have had four years of stay after those three consecutive victories - which, I say again, have no political effect, perhaps outside Greece have created a start, that he is winning the elections. Any Prime Minister who won elections, if he did two consecutively, would win them - and you stayed four years because you had no political appointment in between, you did not have presidential elections to treat you as you were treated in 2015. You had no European elections or regional elections, you had nothing. You were four years with an Opposition that played honestly, at least as far as PASOK and the Change Movement were concerned, and without political intersections. Now the lies are over. Sixteen and one day, ladies and gentlemen, they remained until the Greek people were expressed. You are responsible for the fact that Greece has gone through two crises: the first, the public debt crisis, the Greek economy's ability to export products, all that we have discussed, and the second crisis, which the Greek people have had to take again - for example, your measures - to abolish what had been done, 13% in the focus, to become the Chipras Prime Minister, so that it could be abolished after four years. This is the double crisis. It is now time to value this not in public, not in political debates, but in election, in polls. They do not save you any measures that you are presenting in this House and which we will talk about on Monday and Tuesday. It's a prefecture. If he gets you underneath, you don't raise a head because you're going to bribe your electors. There are governments that have given billions of money and lost with overwhelming differences. You're gonna get that. And you're gonna get it, and that's what I'm closing from two sides. You'll get it in relation to the one who's first, but you'll get it in relation to us who's been showing up as a third clear political force and who's been your target, with all the unfair means, bridges, etc., embarrassing things, for seven months. You'll get the answer you need. And with the multiplier I mentioned Monday, let's see you on the 27th of the month at the National Representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u189	The President of Parliament has asked for the floor. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Loverdo, I want to say something. You may need to place yourself. I obviously don't watch through the tweets every day you count us our days. Indeed, everyone's rhetoric is a result... Here we are, and I do not want to reverse that logic for you. I am obliged to speak on what you said about anti-parliamentary behaviour, not on the points of view. Alas. Firstly, for the discussion process, I really did not see you. I didn't pretend I didn't see you. I have no reason to pretend I don't see you. I was surprised yesterday to see that the issue raised by Mr Denkias was totally solved. It was resolved on Monday and in the first debate - I repeat it now - by President Kaklamanis, presenting the representatives of the parties. No issue has arisen during the procedure, which stated that according to parliamentary practice, etc. We were going to change the procedure after and the speech by Mr Drasakis. In other words, I have been able to sign a agenda for a vote of confidence now and, of course, the President of the Officerial Representation had been given the opportunity for twenty minutes, if I am not mistaken, in detail to say all the reasons he wanted to say about Mr Polakis. It was therefore an absolutely unsolved point of order which was wrongly raised yesterday for discussion. I repeat that no dispute had arisen twice. Obviously I did not see you - it was broken up in my mind and I answered immediately so - and I had no reason, if you had any reason to add or against them, not to give you the floor. I'm telling you straight away. Secondly, for the far-sightedness of the Heads of State or Government, it is true that throughout this period, at the four sessions, we have been following a very comfortable discussion with regard to all parties' leaders. No one's cut. There are too many, more than twice as many - and unfortunately this also requires time from the Members, and none of us is happy about that - that 50% more, 50% more, others more than 30% more, and everyone has spoken at times too much. That is the bad thing I said earlier, a time limit for other colleagues. But it also has the good thing that comfortable discussions are taking place, and that is very important. And for the intervention you have made and for which I, from what you have seen, gave you some clarification, because the Prime Minister obviously did not understand the type of intervention you have made, I said that, in fact, I did in fact intervene on why I left this ping pong to be - put it in in introductory form - that is, the answer between the two. You have raised from earlier point to point, as on other occasions, the question of why to continue this, and there are other leaders to speak. I have given the explanations. The Prime Minister obviously didn't understand. Perhaps, from what he said, he felt that somehow you wanted to deny him the floor, while he was not at your disposal. I would like to tell you right away that this is a choice which I consider to be the President of Parliament. I think it is - and indeed at the difficult times that we have spent these years - a much better choice than the one we lived for two and a half years, where you were a member of a government whose Prime Minister did not just answer Members' questions, but was never present at discussions at the level of party leaders. This House has breathed, breathed democratically, watched the whole world by hundreds of thousands of these very fertile and dense processes and discussions that are taking place. I am not happy with the level of some debates, but this concerns all of us. Nor am I the columnist I'm going to say every time if it's too high or too low. Each of us is judged according to the way he speaks. But for this relaxation that exists, I personally do not accept that it is an anti-parliamentary behaviour. I think it is plus our parliamentary function, of course, accepting that it has some extreme expressions at times, which, too, bothers me very much, because we are then trying to collect them. In any case, however, it concerns Members, and you are very experienced, dear fellow Members - all proceedings are under way, and we are almost all of our colleagues and we have never gone since the 12th night, and it was a norm in the previous years to go and not just in the first semester, and we are trying with good cooperation between all of us and the Bureau to run the proceedings. That is why I accept your opinion. I accept that you can reasonably table a different view. However, I do not accept in any case that this is an institutional anti-parliamentary function of my own or that of the present majority of this House. I want to be very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u193	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Loverdo. But I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u194	This debate must be completed. I will plead so that it can be completed. As for what I was pleased with the President's replies, I will not comment on anything at all. However, I would like to give two clarifications. The first clarification has to do with yesterday's process at the beginning, when she did not give me the floor. It was my position, Mr President, that both Mr Papatheodorou and Mr Cremastinos supported at the Conference of Presidents. We agreed to the procedure. Therefore, since you agree with the procedure, as the New Democracy did at the Conference, it is pointless to raise the first point of order in plenary, and I have the opportunity - and I have said this in my speech - to be able, for scientific reasons - to make reference to this institution in the past. However, the objection was also a form of wrong policy on the part of the New Democracy. I want to add that. When in vulgarity the Prime Minister says 'I'm a shareholder', you leave that. You don't make it difficult. One of the prisoners. It's over and over. As far as the decisions of the Conference of Presidents concerning the Heads of State or Government are concerned, why are you calling us at the Conference of Presidents and proposing twenty minutes of speaking time for the Heads of State or Government? Why don't you tell us there's going to be one hour each Chiefs and Chiefs of the smaller parties forty minutes? Why do you do this to us and give us given the fact that we are always talking backwards and in empty Hall? Why are you doing this? I believe that this is appropriate and we have considered it as a parliamentary group. My intervention had no meaning to anti-SYRIZA. It had meaning to do with the attitude of both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police Response. Because when each speaks for an hour, after two hours, at 10 a.m. and at night when Mrs. Gennamas spoke in an empty room. That is not good, and we asked for institutional protection. Who gives it to us? The Conference of Presidents shall decide by majority voting and minority voting. So, after it has been a rule that other things will be said in the Conference of Presidents and others, why are you calling us to the Conference of Presidents and that produces decisions binding on one Member - the seven minutes - and not binding on the two Heads of the largest parties today? A few months or weeks left. Don't call us again. Do it yourself. But since we are taking decisions, Mr President of Parliament, we must respect them to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u195	I think that the clarifications have been made regarding the Presidents' time. In no government, as far as I know, the times of the Presidents of the parties who were speaking were not precise, and that is what we used to do over time. It's not just been in the last four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u196	That is not the case, Mr President. Mrs. Benaki had sat down on Mr. Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u197	Now don't go to individual events, Mr. Loverdo. You know that. I'm talking about what's common.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u198	I said it because you referred to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u199	Mr Balafa, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by attending these two days the debate, particularly some of the speeches by colleagues from the Opposition, I feel that I am moving in a parallel universe. In my universe there are questions, there are the citizens' questions, there are the concerns of the citizens. In the data from the Opposition, the New Democracy main, but unfortunately also from the KINAL sometimes, there is a permanent disaster, there is a misery, I would say. The economy is falling apart, the pensions should have been cut from January 1st, duty-free, etc. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the real society, in my universe, citizens are interested and asking, about recent government decisions, about tax evasion, the restoration of injustices. They ask about the thirteenth pension, about how much PPC pays will be reduced, about how much the bill will be reduced to the supermarkets. They also ask about their wages. Citizens cannot forget, because they are concerned about themselves, that from our own government the minimum wage has increased, the disgrace of the subordinate has been abolished, two reductions made over one night, by the previous governments in 2012. They do not forget that we have reduced uninsured and uninsured work, we have ratified a number of collective agreements, we have protected workers as far as possible. In the parallel universe of Antipopulation, however, the question that predominates is: "Yes, but what do you have to tell us about Madour?" In real society citizens fight for the debts they are drowning. That is why we are setting up the hundred and twenty instalments to the insurance funds, to the taxes, and we believe that this will bring a deep breath to a large part of the millions of Greek households. In the parallel universe of the Opposition, the question and the enclave is: "Yes, but Paulis smokes and speaks iniqually". Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens and, in particular, the middle classes - in this case, the middle class - are fighting for the economy. In recent years, however, the economic step forward has been getting more and more positive. Loan rates fell. We have paid off a large part of the debt to the Monetary Fund. Exports increase. Our tourism covers a continuous record. The Opposition on others is cursing, not to mention what it says. The citizens - to go to something beyond the economy - see liquidity and instability in our wider region, not only in Turkey or in the Middle East, but also in other regions, in mighty countries such as Great Britain and reasonably ask what we are doing for the safety of the country. We, therefore, make alliances, we close old fronts, we upgrade our country's role, we win prestige and recognition. On these issues alone an international advocate, Mr Mitsotakis, is Mr Mitsotakis, and do not give me any other expression, and this is what this attitude of 1915 is called in the Greek and the previous one - Mr Weber. The Greek language is clear. Whoever speaks against Greek interests, repeatedly, is unwilling. The opposition of course: "Yes, but this Minister has something to do with the same businessman." The one who sponsored the conference that attended and spoke of a Christmas gift in Cyprus a few weeks ago. Nevertheless, we are calling for all of this to be discussed, but with arguments. Our President, Mr Alexis Tsipras, has called on Mr Mitsotakis to discuss before the world, what we call debate and the world after the debate to draw its own conclusions. As he accepted it and heard it, so did I. Unfortunately, the dialogue - let us call it that - with opposition is like this, especially the Dedicated Opposition. It is understandable why they are doing so, because when the debate comes up with issues of substance, then in the New Democracy they get away - things that they would like to hide. For example, it escapes them - I wonder - the complete privatization of insurance and even likened it - where did they think about it? - with Pinochet's insurance policy, that iron dictator of Chile? They are missed by the abolition of the Christmas gift, as Mr Mitsotakis said at the Cyprus conference. They are unavoidable to replace unemployment subsidies with employers' subsidies, because 'when the unemployed becomes lazy'. They are unaware that the eighth is 'excessed'. Go on, then, for twelve hours. In general, the New Democracy colleagues are - let us call them - witnessers. It is characteristic in this respect and the dismay of the opposing media who are trying to disappear and when they are unable to eliminate, even to reduce, the government's positive measures, at the same time promoting a catastrophe, which, unfortunately, is not constantly being verified for them, is indisputable. The cutter wasn't activated. Christmas, we're celebrating. The pensions aren't cut in January. The economy is also developing, since the Prime Minister announced that duty will not be reduced, he remembered now - and not a week ago or a day before - to talk about a tax-free amendment. It is clear, therefore, that some people are not in favour of the debate on the substance. They just want fights, slugs, tensions and condensations. They can't stand the quiet conversation about what's to blame, who's to blame, who's to blame, etc. Finishing. We will insist on proposing our programme. We will insist on revealing the responsibilities of the parties and those who have been ruling over the past decades. We will insist on building the alliance of progressive forces in Greece and Europe. Those who insist on investing in tension and populism will stay - remember this - surprised at the night of the elections. Some Greeks, some of our fellow citizens, our compatriots, may watch without commenting on the Creed of Anti-Population, but be sure that they will speak and speak as they should and when they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and seven educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Carlas Ryzomou Magnesia and the 2nd Elementary School of Myrina Limnos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Barriots from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by pointing out that yesterday's picture of the House, yesterday's confrontation of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response was an unacceptable picture of disinformation, as the President of the Change Movement rightly pointed out. In any case, it was an image offensive to them, to Parliament and to the whole country. You see in the crisis the Greek people expect from the House, from the parties, from their political representatives a new political morality. We need a new way of conducting policy. From this point of view, the motion of censure against Mr Polakis was an excellent opportunity, not to condemn the impeccable Mr Paulakis, but to condemn the perception behind his practices: the contempt for the institutions, the undermining of justice by the executive, the tactics of the murder of characters, unrelenting populism with a debate surrounding this type of behaviour. The truth, however, is that it appeared here and, as we know slowly, Mr Paulakis is not alone. It expresses in the most raw and clear way, in a way, if you want primitive, a political and moral concept that runs the entire government, with or without Mr Kammenos. Was it or wasn't yesterday Mr. Tsipras a hundred percent Paulakis in his behavior and placement? Even Mr. Kymbouropoulos called him a roaming pot. Will anyone really differentiate from SYRIZA's first-class executives who rushed to condemn Mr. Polakis for much less than that or when the Chief speaks all right? Let's be honest. Mr Tsipras covers Mr Polakis, because they are politically agreed on the line of populism, division, permanent erosion of institutions and the undermining of our own democracy. The attitudes and policies of this type are not just Mr Polakis. Unfortunately, this picture adds to the New Democracy, which seems to be struggling not to be accused of lacking in populism, not to be accused of falling short of mudfighting. So, in order to paraphrase a poet, Bost - yesterday we saw what he would describe - 'both later collapsed in the House'. Really, very bad picture, which unfortunately is not for laughing. I wish it were! I'd read you all to Bost in that case. Of course, there is also a second reason why Mr Tsipras turned this debate into a vote of confidence. He decided, as it turns out, to go through some kind of spring counterattack. Afflicted by the fact that the bridges that tried to set up, wounded by the debate in Matti and the popular discomfort to slowly culminate in an attempt to move forward, using the other great instrument of populism, which is compulsion. So he came to the House, after he went through Zappeion, to recite once again the well-known scenario "The Government of National Salvation". Do you remember that? Mr Kammenos was very fond of the term in the first half of the year. So she took the country out of the memorials from now on she will share allowances and increases and we will all eat with gold spoons. This is not reheated food, this is shaved food, since the script has been playing without effect for a long time. After all, the Prime Minister celebrates the solution to problems which would not exist if there were no governance of SYRIZA, his party and Mr Varoufakis. I would remind you that VAT on catering and energy has been where it is going, when the Prime Minister's announcements are executed, as early as 2015. He went up because of the turbulence, to use a mild term, ruled by Mr. Varoufakis and Mr. Tsipras in the summer of 2015. As for pensioners, they get back one tenth of what they gave with 6% on all pensions with the disappearance of the ESS, with the reduction of pensions, as Mr Koutsoukos haunted yesterday in committee. In the meantime, I hear Mr. Paulakis says he will speak with his work. That's what he said. What's his job? Mr Paulakis will remain in history for what he says, among other things, because he has done very few things worth mentioning. To start with the numbers, I have spoken in the past about "Police algebra", since the numbers mentioned by Mr. Paulakis are rarely cross-checked and almost never the same. I heard the Prime Minister again talking about nineteen thousand appointments. I have repeatedly asked for tables and data. They don't get out of nowhere. Even the Gentiles in the establishment of the ESS did not appoint nineteen thousand people in two years. The Greek State can't do that. Also, to end with this tale of two and a half million unsecured people, where does two and a half million come from? Four million eight thousand are the country's active economic population. He's not one out of two uninsured workers in this country. It was never. Were there uninsured, covered during the crisis and by Mr Loverdos - and I see him here - and by the next government, better, if you would like, but two and a half million? All numbers are fireworks that are not documented.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u203	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u204	If it is, Mr Deed, two and a half million families - the protected members are another story - the evidence to see them. If there are nineteen thousand Mr. Polakis' appointments, we'll put a statue outside the Red. But it's not. Unfortunately, it's inaccurate. If we want to see, let's go deeper. We need to provide evidence about the client state. We've got movements, and the distractions are done by simple signature. There are hospitals whose organograms are getting worse, their completeness is getting worse in the crisis and others that are launching. Are there health centres without nurses and health centres too full? There are. Have we done anything about it? No, of course not. Mr. Paulakis appoints. In any case, we all know it and it is certified not only by the WTO, but also by ELSTAT that the number of workers in Greek hospitals, the National Health System, is negative. Doctors leave massively, either retired or leaving abroad, and nurses do what they can take distractions elsewhere or move at the expense of the enormous pressure they raise in large hospitals. So the early stabilization - because I do not want to level it - which has been done with the assistants is coming to an end. And it comes to an end, because the other thing that comes from now on, according to the government's stabilising programme, is that funding continues to fall steadily. As a percentage of GDP, it says the programme submitted by the government to the institutions, from 5.1% to 4.7% in 2024. This means at a deflation of money and at constant prices that in the very good scenario there is not one more drachma for a system that has enormous needs. From a shipwreck to a shipwreck, then. Mr. Polakis' famous law on the supplies we have voted on here is zero. Nothing has changed in the way supplies are made to hospitals. He celebrates the donations of the institutions, because he has nothing else to say when he manages to absorb them. But the hospitals are falling apart anyway, because they don't have any money, they don't have money for heavy maintenance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u205	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u206	Just a minute, Mr President, to talk about primary school, because I am tired of hearing about the great reform by colleagues. In fact, the TEMPUS shipwreck, which is a given - due to time, I cannot analyse it - is paralyzing the few remaining from primary school. What are we doing? Along with the TOMY, we establish and KMY, Mobile Health Teams. Why not coastal health groups? Appointments come, we can make money. They are appointments that do not count anywhere, however, because they offer nothing. Unfortunately, that's the picture. In the drug, 7% of households, according to one recent study, have catastrophic drug expenditures. In other words, he pays from his pocket over 25% of his income for drugs. There's nothing wrong with this huge catastrophe. It is 1.2 billion pharmacological expenses and is paid directly from the patient's pockets. Mr Paulakis made a fuss over the past few years. Unfortunately, and where attempted changes such as the TEMPUS have taken place, the results have been tragic. Hospitals are still in terms of management and administration in 1950, without prescribing, without a digital management environment. Four lost years in a sensitive health sector, with little or no real reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u207	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u208	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that this government must go away, which is why we will vote against today. It is a toxic government, which harms 'polluterism' - let me express - in the very quality of our democracy, and from now on, all it offers is uncertainty and dispersal of public money for election purposes. This must end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. Mr Psarianos, Member of the New Democracy, if I'm not mistaken, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u210	Independent MEP, Mr President. With the New Democracy candidate in the next election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u211	Independent? I'm sorry, but I read it, I didn't say it intentionally. Mr. Stathakis will follow in Step. Here, Mr. Fisherian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. We're really confused here. There's a lot of moves going on, but no move is valid if they don't hold elections and if the people don't decide if they want you, where they want you and how they want you. Since this issue was raised, and I have heard the word 'turner', which goes around to my old left-wing friends, especially to various fascists, there is no Gymologist. I have been absolutely stable in what I have been saying for ten years. No move. Movements were made by the party groups that I was in. With DIMAR, we left SYRIZA to deny populism, ethnicism, groups and the paranoia that we have lived for years. But I didn't know Mr. Fanouris Kouvelis would be back. I just figured it out, and I said we shouldn't do this, it doesn't involve me in this plan, it erased me. I didn't move. He's moved and he's around here somewhere. The next president of DMAR was moved, too, and he's around here somewhere, fighting with Fanouris. Many were moved from PASOK to SYRIZA, from the old PASOK to the youngest SYRIZA, to the youngest SYRIZA. There have been things and miracles here, big twists. I mean, Liverpool and Tennam's toys are small twists in front of what's been done here. Gyro! What kind of gyro? SYRIZA is shooting! He's done thirty-six rounds, assholes and ground exercises with the ribbon. We're talking about a lot of horrors! He's with Trump and Madour. It is also with the social democrats and the 'Die Linke'. He's with Julio Iglesias and the other Iglesias. It was! Now it's broken! It was either the villas or the dough. It's either the pools or I don't know where, something's happened and now they're not talking. These hugs, like, are overrun. So there's no more gyro tale! Gyroologists are the ones who change positions. They're the ones that tossed memorials, then roll them and vote for a new one! That's a hurricanes. That's how I can tell you a lot about education, about justice, about public administration, about public money management, about everything. Here I would like us to decide that we will say the figs and boats 'catch'. We need to speak clearly from now on. Every prime minister, every minister, every public player lives or has to live in a glass house, even if he has fifty houses or two, what he wants. I once said "better rebel and rich than." - not to say the word - "...and poor." Now I would like to say that you are better off being what you are, that is, rich or poor, but be true, genuine and honest, not selling "falsely". You know what 'false' is. It's very addictive to users. The "false" is like the hay, but even harder. The hay can cut it, the fairy tale, you're having a hard time. And we've eaten a lot of fairy tale here, comrades and comrades! I cannot vote for this government, of course, but I can give it credit and thank it for having achieved something that no one else from the moral advantage of the left could do. No one else could do what SYRIZA did, i.e. prove that neither left nor right or centre nor "birth right" nor "birth-right" nor "birth-pass" nor anything. All of this is one, as long as they obey a rule, the rule of chess, the rule of chair, the rule of predator. And let Papagelopoulos also be Ragus, let Fufutus also be the "Xescuphus". It doesn't matter. The left-wing government for four years was relying on the most caffeine vulgar extreme right, on the "Chattered" and the "frozen". For four years! We sold Comrade Pano, and now we are playing European Social Democrats, from where we smuggled with Europe and we hated her. We wanted to do "dou" at the Mint to print drachmas, we wanted to tear up the memorials, we wanted to hang on their hangers "Solimples" and the battalionists! I am a stable "German germanchole" and "Hebrew Safer", a Euromono street fan and a "Eurolingour" said by the comrades. I couldn't agree more. I am. And I am always stable on this, you know, since one Leonidas and one Michaels from my home, from my old left that no longer exists, they said 'No to the Europe of monopolies, Yes to the EEC, Yes to the Community of workers' and described this when the Right, the PASOK, the other Left, they were all anti-European carts! You know, Kostantinos Karamanlis put Greece in the EEC against his party basically. You know, Mitsotakis put us in Maastricht against his party, basically. You know, Shite put us in EMU against his party. In these three Constantines, we other Greeks, whether or not we agreed politically with them or not, or now if we disagreed with some people later, must put them under statues, because if this country were not in Europe and in its hard core, it would have been broken up. You are about to break it down, while it is in Europe, because you have sold extreme anti-Europeanism, rather than discovering the positive side of Europe, the Eurozone, the European Union, which is the only road and the most civilised union of countries in the world. Everyone else wants to come and stay here and you want to leave. You had prepared a boat for Madagascar. At the last moment, you have disintegrated it and sanctified it in the reef and in the stumbling block of a manifestly pro-Europeanism. Left. Do you want me to say the names of this government from various remains of all the parties to see who the Left is? And the question is not whether we're left or right or centre. The question is whether we are consistent on a course to save this country, which, ten years ago, is like a dog chasing its tail, while Portugal, Ireland, Cyprus, Spain, with the 'nearly memorial', all have reached a rate of development that is scary. Cyprus has blinded us with growth, as has Ireland and Portugal and we here not to say what we are doing. And you know it very well. We're playing the best. We don't want any investments. We hate private initiative, entrepreneurship, investment. We hate them at the Skourias, at the airports, at the ports. We are selling them like this, but then we are saying that we will not implement the sale we made to them, and we should start by putting an investment plan for them. And Stergios Pittsorlas, my old friend, understands about what I'm saying, but it's just fine, we're all in a lot of places that we can't really move our tail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like a minute, Mr. President. I won't say names, let's see what this Left has been rid of her extreme right-wing weights and put up some roundabout weights, something remains of all the political spaces everywhere. I have to tell you 20 names, if you would like, now, who, together with the other hundred and forty five Members of the stable SYRIZA, make the duck and the applause and accept the Eye, the Pollisms, the fats. Later, both of them came closer. Not only two, but we've been through all the way. We're just hiding. We're not saying that. It would be nice to say Alexis, my old friend as well, "Yes, man, I'm talking with businessmen, of course, with my institutional role and I'm on vacation." We knew that Karamanlis was going to Manganari in Io, Simitis was going to Sifnos to the barber with the line ship, George Papandreou went to Spetses, Andreas went to Nice Helen. We knew where everyone was going. There was transparency. Now we don't know. Is he in Margarita on the island in Venezuela? Is he in Bali? Las Palmas? Is it at the head of ‘K’, ‘P’, ‘L’, ‘M’? We don't know which warden she's in. Tell us. It's not bad. But tell us where. Stop selling this war against elites. Only the toast "Elite" rub. No war against elites. You're the elites.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u213	I'd like to beg there's a temper, keep a level. Yesterday it was not one of the best parliamentary days. You've all seen it, people talk about it out. To make nominal reports...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u214	Let's watch out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u215	I'm not just talking about you, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u216	That's all you need to say about me! This is where the wedding's done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u217	No, no. By making nominal reports we challenge the other one to speak on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u218	Clear! Do you know what I've heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u219	Let me finish at least. If one Member refers to the three hundred MPs, three hundred MPs will speak on staff. You realize that's not the case. I didn't say that about you. I say it because I have to say it. Of course, we are all calling for the Rules of Procedure to be implemented. The Rules of Procedure provide for time. Time is for the substance. If we take time to criticise each other, then the substance is not served. The floor is for the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Kafantaris. Pleasure, I didn't say that for Mr. Psariano. I am saying this for everyone, because we are unfortunately in difficult election days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u220	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u221	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return to politics, because we have heard too much these two days. I'll start my placement on today. As today, seventy-four years ago, Nazi Germany was handed over to the western allies and currently 9 May was registered with Soviet soldier Zukoff in Berlin. So this day, today, seventy-four years after the definitive collapse of Nazism, we see ideas of fascism and Nazism trying to get a head in both Europe and Greece. We have honoured today at a memorial ceremony, at events held by the Attica Region and by a wreath of the Parliament the great victory of the peoples, the great anti-fascist victory. After seventy-four years, after these historic events nostalgics of the past in good cooperation with neoliberal and nationalist forces, they try to make us forget, while at the same time they appear as saviors. After sinking the country into the recession, the destruction of the production base, unemployment - which has now arrived, and 28% at some point - the GDP of 26% has fallen, has led the country to the memorandums. And with the Papandreou, Papademos, Samaras voted memorials and they were materialized. So the same political forces today four and a half years later, which are far from power - consider it to be theirs alone - are looking forward to recapture it. But our country is in a new phase, in a new reality. We have a government that has taken us out of the memorials, with a gradual restoration of injustices at all levels and - beware - with a Greece now upgraded to European and world affairs. The recent announcements made by the Prime Minister - which are not announcements, but will immediately be legislated - on the basis of the regulations for the hundred and twenty instalments, the reduction of VAT, the thirteenth pension, the measures for workers and pensioners, show that our country, our country, is gradually returning to normality. I note that all these measures which have been announced and are to be voted on immediately, are to be permanent measures. We owe a lot to the Greek people who have been particularly troubled by these difficult eight to nine years. Of course, there are still problems. We are implementing our commitments gradually and at the right time. The Greek people, however, understand. On the other hand, the Opposition, and even the Civic Opposition, are shaking because its account has collapsed sharply. Only her weapon now destructive, subtlety and yellowism. We heard a lot - as I said before - in this Chamber yesterday and today. He said the Chief of Police Vice-Population, Mr. Mitsotakis, that the announcements are "typical" before the elections. In other words, "kidneys" are the permanent measures for the 15th pension, the reduction of VAT on food which will also result in the "household basket" which they say, the reduction of VAT on energy which PPC's bill will cheapen for everyone. And also "kidneys" are for Acoustic Antipolitics and SMEs the pension measures whereby our eighty-thousand fellow citizens, who cannot receive a pension because they have debts in their insurance fund and are fully locked up, will now be able to proceed to this process. Secondly, Mr Mitsotakis spoke of the Prime Minister's tenth in Ithaca. So the exit from the memoranda and the announcement made by the Prime Minister about this new phase of the country is just 10? Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you dream of permanent memoirs and why your programme is basically identical to the International Monetary Fund programme? Thirdly, Mr Mitsotakis spoke of a social agenda in the New Democracy. What is the New Democracy social agenda? The eight-hour abolition that he said was overdue? The New Democracy MEPs in the European Parliament voted to abolish eight hours for workers in transport companies at European level. And as a New Democracy MEP said, 'These are details, minor things'. But what does the New Democracy say about unemployment? Will it be a match with Mr Webber who has been opposed to the creation of a European unemployment fund? Is she also in agreement with a candidate MEP who spoke - indirectly, but actually this is - to abolish the unemployment subsidy, while for so many years their governments have raised it? I now come to another serious, social issue. It's about the disabled, people with disabilities. The left perception treats disabled people on an equal footing, not with a rational charity, as conservative perception sees it. We have taken important steps, we have incorporated international UN conventions on the optional protocol on the disabled. We're building a new social state. Not to say, of course, the benefits of disabled people who have not been cut, not to say about 15% in the hiring of HEIs in the public sector and, of course, about four and a half thousand recruits in special education. However, I cannot say anything here, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Mitsotakis' statement in the autumn was: "I do not have any illusions. There can be no society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." Let those who listen to us think about it. That says too much. Fourthly, Mr Mitsotakis spoke yesterday about the division from the government on the occasion of the Treaty of Ambassadors. So those who split the Greek people by undermining the national line of decades, instead of splitting their party, tried to divide Greek society. And finally, I would say that the New Democracy has been asking for so long to talk about the economy, that SYRIZA is against investment, does not bring investment, no growth, etc. So when the debate came to talk about the economy, through tactics and micro-politicals - because the narrative has now been broken - we had what we lived, the parapolitical from the point of view of the Officerial Response. The New Democracy has fallen many times outside and once again it has fallen out in the economy. Growth is projected to 2.2% for 2020 - and that is not what SYRIZA says, it is called European institutions - when growth in the euro area is about 1.4%. We had an increase in exports, an increase in investment, something less than 4 billion foreign direct investment in 2018, an increase in industrial production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The new measures announced by the Prime Minister, which are to be voted on directly, have been welcomed by bodies such as BSE, the EUSY, the EBRD, by market operators, what you are saying is a real economy, of course, apart from natural persons and all that we all understand. So what you say is a real economy, say hello to these measures that they are in the right direction and will help the country and country. But New Democracy is in constant embarrassment and manufactures "yellow" news, make news and all that. But this is not what the Greek people are interested in. His daily life is of interest to him and he is now slowly breathing. New Democracy uses fear as its main weapon, because fear eases memory. But I repeat that the Greek people understand. It is courageous to use fear, because you yourself are the same to fear. Besides, the enthusiasm with which you are presenting is the mask of your fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, has the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u224	First of all, I feel the need to assure you that we will not return to the candle season. The House will have electricity and after twelve months, so you can consider the fears that PPC will shut and because it has a contract with PPC and you will not have electricity, I can assure you that you will have it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the risk of our debate here tends to become particularly serious, because, where we all conceived or believed that there will be a debate in four major sections, which in fact constitute the political agenda of the days and ahead of the European elections, these four thematics are mature for discussion: firstly, what has happened in the four years of governance and how does the government think that some things have been done and how opposition can now be criticised in all the main areas of the government, and secondly, the strategy for the aftermath of the next day, what is the key idea of what our policy will be in the next few years. Thirdly, the spirit and style of the government that should be and can be the subject of the debate, welcome and welcome, and of course the agenda for the European elections. These four fundamental sections were the agenda for an all-material conflict between the government and meticulously - I stress it - and, with a very clear view, the future strategies are clearly reflected in the European elections with the spirit and style of this government four years later. Instead, there was a dimension which is very worrying and I will highlight it. First I'll give her fun side. I am referring to a diffuse "yellow" culture which - not only in four years' time, but may even before, I am a MP since 2012, and I remember infinite articles for myself and for many other things - is spreading, moving into a press share with a disposition of opposition towards SYRIZA, which - I repeat - because I am a worshiper of total freedom of the press, no restriction on freedom of the press, can write what he wants and whoever wants. Even if it is false, I am dealing with it in a mood, if not any other humorous, satyrical, that is, in a mood that yellowism is an inevitable part of democracy and freedom of the press. So when I read in a post that I and Flampouraris and Dritsas were on the boat that broke a fatal accident in Aegina or when I read that after my statement on "CNN" in April 2015 I went and ate in Hilton rich dishes or when I watched on TV the other day on a show my wife appearing on a photo as Mr. Polakis, because she was talking at that time with the Prime Minister's wife, all of this - I repeat - I find it fun, interesting and cannot pay any attention to all of this freaky "yellow" culture that is part - I repeat - a portion of the press and how that works. There is a serious dimension, however, when we pass this Chamber, that is, when someone pulls it back and creates the picture that this is part of our political life. I am very sorry to say that the Chief of Officer Response has carried out a string of these kinds of publications. And I say this with an absolute sense of responsibility and desperation at the same time, because this type of policy, namely, the idea that we are building news to hit our opponent, that we are struggling news to hit our opponent, that we are forming various, half-true half-truths, but, anyway, we are making them as major issues in politics to hit our opponent, our democracies have paid for it. I have always been pushed by the historical dimension of this long history of culture and its integration into the political life of the country and at the expense of historical time I will go to the most extreme version of this phenomenon, I will go to macarthism. Macarthism condemned within the Senate the status of a left-wing, but not as such. All Americans could be left-wing and communists and anything. But what couldn't they be? Successful Hollywood directors, writers in Hollywood, journalists at 'NEW YORK TIMES', university professors or anything other than these institutions, who a system considered to be his exclusive privilege and that there was a corrosion of these institutions from this category of political identity. And what did it require? It is important that we do not have the right to vote in favour of this report, but that we do not have the right to vote in favour of it. So these people had to be expelled from this system. The way it was made was with constructed categories, manufactured information, manufactured publications, manufactured bonds, etc. I say this because this line of cruising is diffuse today in many European societies. Unfortunately, I can refer you to the Marxists who have taken over the universities in Ireland, all post-modernists. It's all over the place. The erosion of the institutions on the right and the left, from justice to journalism and journalism to universities opens up - I repeat - an extremely dangerous road. What is the basic principle of all these things? That in this way we want and seek to bring the level of policy to something that we consider to be our own measure or our privilege or our own monopoly. This tragic moment I feel the need to remind her precisely because that is what I felt yesterday. I very much appreciate the history of the New Democracy. There have been too many important people over her leadership. I believe that yesterday, every aspect of this tradition was overcome by a political speech which, as far as I am concerned, carried what we thought so far - and we consider most of us in here - to be beyond the limits. It is part of an opposition culture, it is part of a prone, limited, journalistic portion of types, literature, television media, etc., but it is not part of our political debate and this must be shielded. He is also a bad consultant, the worst counsellor, because in Greece we have traditions in this, to think that will win the election. It's never happened. Andreas Papandreou swept through the election after talking in the media about a house that Andreas has taken, and if the house, etc. I remind you of what has happened in those years with such policies. So the idea remains: it wins the election by the one who has an identifiable policy and also has a moral lead in front of every election battle. It's over! This is the dimension and this must always remain in our judgment. I shall now turn to four policy issues. There is no doubt that the present government has closed down a circle with a memorandum which has agreed and designed it with its pros and its against it and brought it to fruition. I would remind you that the memorandum was four things. They were public finances. We have created a programme much more balanced than the previous ones with social care, with gradual development, with rational measures, etc. and we've brought it through, we've made it step by step. The restoration of budgetary discipline was the great achievement. The second was the banking system. Steps have been taken, joined the European system, normalized. It could have been normalized and even better, but it was the second axis. The third was the reforms. A package of reforms that, in my opinion, are historical areas, the register, the forest maps, the energy market reform and dozens of other decades that have remained outstanding and which this government has completed. And, of course, the privatisations in which, in those who were able, namely those we discussed and negotiated, we completely changed their framework. This debate has therefore been closed, the economy has now been in a very stable state, the closure of the circle of the memorandum has been one of the very great successes and very intelligent and our strategy with the creation of buffer, Tsakalotos, etc., which has provided a framework within which we can also discuss the measures that we have taken, which are many and important, but at the same time have access to the market in a particularly impressive way. The strategy after that is about imprinted. SYRIZA is announcing a strategy which has already been reflected in the country's development strategy and which includes all the social package we are currently implementing. That's in agreement with the institutions. I wonder why these issues are coming back. It is a transparent strategy, a strategy that focuses on production, exports, extroversion and many other issues. So our strategy is growth with strong social data that change everything that has happened since 2009. And, of course, the third dimension of all these things, the European elections, the great conflict that is currently under way. The kind and style are also an open challenge. We can have this debate as you wish, whenever you want, in whatever terms, but not in terms of the diversity of people involved in a government - large parties are all different, we are all different - but on the basis of the basic rules of ethos and morality for which the government as a whole seems to me to be defendable 100% and rightfully. I close with PPC as you worry about the power and its future. Let me remind you that PPC was found in two periods. First period is New Democracy and New Democracy - PASOK. Greece has been the country with the highest growths in electricity prices throughout Europe, 60% of the current has increased from 2009 to 2013, 60%! From 2015 until today, it has increased zero, in fact it decreased 12% because of PPC's discount policy. And what does this huge difference mean now? It means two things. That during the period of New Democracy gave such a great increase in the price of electricity, expecting firstly, to heal accumulated problems and to deal with them and secondly, preparing the privatisation of the entire PPC. The 2014 plan broke PPC into three pieces, IPTO, the small PPC and the large PPC. The IPTO sold 66%, the small PPC 100% and the large 17%, to drop the public from 51% to 34%. That was the plan. Therefore, they made large increases in electricity in order to be able to proceed with this project and at the same time to obtain borrowing capacity PPC, which it did not have. They saved it until 2014 and delivered it to PPC with a profit of 90 million, says Mr. Skrekas. Imagine all this with 60% increase in electricity, with, with 90 million gains in a turnover of 5.8 billion, i.e. zero. That period was therefore dramatic. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We've done three things since. We overthrowd the IPTO that remained 51% public and entered a strategic investor. We canceled the small PPC plan and tried to move forward with a much more balanced policy with the sale of only lignite units, as the European Court of Justice and European rules say, and we canceled 17% of the large PPC. At the same time we have implemented a social policy in PPC that was adapted to the conditions of the crisis. With the current growing 60%, one and a half billion debts were created in Greek society. It makes sense because the GDP fell by 24%, the incomes fell by 40% and the current increased by 60%. It is challenged to blame us that debts were created with the culture of "I do not pay" after 2015. It's a challenge! Imagine it, it increased 60%, dropped 40% of income. How will business and households pay? Secondly, we have implemented a social policy, we have expanded the social tariff, we have created the Reunification Fund, we have told PPC that we do not want power increases, PPC has to be streamlined as much as it can with these tariffs. PPC did many positive things in this respect and the workers and all. And we spent a long period of time when with PPC's rationalisation and three positive years, with profitability, and with EBITDA PPC did two things, namely positive social policy, and secondly it reduced the debt from 5 billion to 3.8 So every year it loses its debts of 300 to 400 million. And thirdly, it has adapted to a reality that is trying to accept economic and social conditions and to help the economy get out of the crisis. That's what matters. We're helping. We have kept to the full agricultural tariffs, tourism and industry in the effort of all the European data that we had to base on the economy and society and not go into such adventures. Today the image is misleading as it has been given. I think detailed evidence has been given. Apparently PPC doesn't have 900 million damage. The units for sale are 300 million, but 300 others take, 100 are the ones that have been written for the voluntary service of the workers, and so on. We naturally expect that along with the additional measures that PPC takes and will take in this period, 2019 will be profitable. They have a lot to do, but in any case I close it by saying that the catastrophe developed by the New Democracy that since the Greek economy was not destroyed, the Greek economy will be destroyed through PPC the Greek economy is not the case. The Greek economy will be as you know it. We've already analyzed it. PPC will be an integral part of a new reality in the energy sector, in which many reforms have been made and will remain the main pillar of our energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, may I ask Mr Statakis a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u227	Here, Mr. Loverdeo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u228	We're not talking, Mr. Statakis, about matters we don't know, I'm telling myself. That is why, because I am not an expert on this matter, I am going to ask a question in front of me a statement by Mr Maniotis a few days ago. I cannot be sufficient on any grounds related to the reduction or increase in PPC's invoice. That is why I ask you this. Do you have a table now with regard to the price increases of PPC's invoice in our period? I am referring to the years back, the decades. I am referring to the years of the crisis. Can you also answer the question whether it is true that you had, due to the reduction in the price of oil, 800 million reduced costs on the part of PPC, and whether you have attempted in the favorable years - 2015 and 2016 that you were lucky - reductions in PPC's invoice?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u229	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u230	All Eurostat's official figures are also published in my communication on the 60% increase, and I also invoke the source at the time, because it was also the ACER report, which Kathimerini reproduced at the end of 2014. And I am making an exact reference to this article, precisely because it reflected the European statistics on this issue. On the second point, on the oil price fluctuations, I do not have the analytical picture of the annual fluctuations in Mr Maniotis's claim that an air of 800 million in time with fluctuations has been granted, but I can check it out. In any case, the policy of zero invoices from the beginning of 2015 until today is a given one. It incorporated, of course, and - if PPC benefited from oil - and negative developments: CO2 and much more. In any case, however, the policy was clear, no increase in the electricity price.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, thank you very much. Indeed, Mr Stathakis is a wonderful speaker. Minister, you speak with a quietness and a sureness, although I am absolutely certain that you have the full ability to understand that what you are saying is, unfortunately, words of the air. Because if you did so well with PPC, can you explain a little bit why on your day it has the lowest stock exchange value of all its history? Because, as you well know - you may declare a communist, but you are a wolf and therefore, by capitalism, you understand, as Mr Pittsorla beside you - markets value what each one of us does in a business and cost it. And Stathakis have put it - how did you do it before? - Zero! So, don't be so calm, because PPC did make 900 million losses, and three of the oil you said didn't convince the Exchange, which, as you remember, was the result of 2018, PPC lived days of crack. And it is very reasonable that the Opposition and each Greek worry about PPC, especially when PPC's official consultant, as you know, announced that there is a serious chance of bankruptcy. So you have to answer these and not supposedly smart guys with a nice look. Of course I understand your anxiety that SYRIZA will win the next elections and that is why you have my full parliamentary understanding, especially since Mr Tsipras, your leader, has made a public expression of his preference for Chania. And he's Mr. Paul Paulakis! And I realize that if you lose the election, in Chania, you'll get a MP. And Tsipras votes Polakis and not Stathakis! And that makes it harder for you. I get it. You have our understanding. But let's go a little bit now. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I blame you for hypocrisy. We're talking about Mr. Polakis' style. I heard Mr. Stathakis here, a decent man saying that yellowism must not enter this Chamber and everything else. Yes, sir! You weren't in this room when Mr. Paulakis accused my wife of making a break in the CDC? Yes or no? Didn't you do a committee of inquiry to find out if my wife was making any ruffles at the CDC? Did you find any evidence about my wife? Any prosecutors called her? Is there a tailor found, like what Mr. Paulakis said? What's the truth of learning it after all? The person responsible for recruitment was then called Manolidou and I met her at an event and said to me: "Mr. Georgiadis, Minister, I am Mrs Manolidou and I was at the EMCDDA and I did the recruitment." Did any of you react here to Mr. Polakis' vulgarity against my family? What moral authority are you now talking about yellowism, Mr. Stathakis? When you accept yellowism in your party, will you come here and suggest yellowism? When I sued him for saying that I have offshore in Cyprus and I hide the money, and the prosecution came here to take him to court and defend my honor and reputation, didn't you all vote together not to waive his immunity, Mr. Stathakis? And will you talk to me about yellowism? You're a hypocrite and a liar! Because for the sake of your personal political interest you cover all kinds of yellowism. But let's go a little bit. Yesterday Mr. Tsipras made a vulgar show of what he's used to. I understand that Mr Tsipras has been in a very difficult position. Mr President, as a yellowism, you call the debate on the best of Mrs Panagopoulos. Yes, sir. And I heard Vitsa accusing Kostis Hatzidakis that "it is possible that you, the serious Vice-President of the New Democracy...", why is the other non-serious, "... talk about the fat?" Haven't you seen the 2014 video on the internet with Mr. Tsipras accuse the old political system of going on rides with the best of the rich? When Mr. Tsipras spoke of the fowls and the rides with the hens of the rich, wasn't he yellow? So it's yellow if we put it for Tsipra? If Tsipras puts it, it's white, but if we talk about Tsipras, it's yellow. That's how you were taught, Mr. Stathakis, at school? No, it's the same line as Tsipras and everybody. And of course, it is not the conversation about the fatalty at all yellow for those who know the code of conduct that applies throughout the world. And I just want to remind you of two incidents, Mr. Voutsi. In 2002, when the President of the Commission, Mr Barozo, found himself in a horn in Greece, a well-known Greek businessman, when he returned to the European Parliament, the left made him a motion of censure because he received such a gift. The left, that is, you in the European Parliament! Was it yellow on the left when he made a motion of censure for the heaviest in Baroz? Was the Left in France yellow when he made a motion of censure in 2007 in Nicolas Sarkozy for a similar ride and was Sarkozy forced to find a glossary broadcast and say "I made a mistake, shouldn't I go up to the kernel"? I don't understand. Is Mr. Tsipras a leader exempting the measures and the stations of all the other criteria of the other leaders on the planet? What is it? The emperor of the universe? Of course Mr Tsipras is also apologising and he is a double apologies and why he did it two weeks after the national tragedy - unacceptable to a Prime Minister - and why he sold leftlessness for many decades and told us about the child of the people who represents the poor against the elites. And of course, we all understand that representing the poor of Mrs Panagopoulos is a little difficult. And of course, go to Ithaca and talk about the banker Papademos and the previous ones who were the elite who went bankrupt the country and after you finish your word for the alleged exit from the memorandum, go back to the son of Ms. Panagopoulos, to walk the blue waters of the Ionian Sea, it is a great hypocrisy. So, of course, Mr. Tsipras is apologetic. But yesterday he said some other terrible things. He said Webber's a bride. Is that how we're going now? From ‘Go back, madame Merkel’ will we go to ‘Go back, mr Weber’? As you are licking Merkel now, so you will lick Vebber tomorrow if he is elected President of the Commission. Because that's who you are. But here there's something more serious. Who do you guys support for President of the Commission? Can you tell us the name of the man Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA support for President of the Commission? I have no idea who you're supporting, so we can judge your own candidate. You are the party without a candidate, because of course you must celebrate whoever else wins. While you say who you're supporting, we'll know if you win or lose. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. As to what he said yesterday that the New Democracy has no programme, it is laughing. The New Democracy is the Opposition that has presented the most detailed government program that has ever presented opposition to history. You can all enter the internet and see a detailed health program, public works, public finances, red loans, everything. How dare Mr. Tsipras say he has not presented a programme? It's very detailed and of course it's not a Thessaloniki program. It's not the 11 billion of CFS and other nonsense Stathakis was talking about at the time. It's a regular program, measured with money. Because Mr. Stathakis likes it, but all the nonsense, unfortunately, he had said it too. And now we're going to the last one. Today Mr. Tsipras made a long-skelled announcement on facebook. I respect what he wrote because I respect families very much. You know, Mr. Stathakis, I heard you about this yellow one again. The fact that Mr. Tsipras has been abusing the family of Mr. Mitsotakis for so many years, have you made a public statement of objections? The fact that Mr. Tsipras has systematically been involved in political confrontation with wives, children, families, has he employed one from SYRIZA? Suddenly, the pain caught you when this story was heard with Father Tsipras and Uncle Tsipras and the junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u233	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u234	And you know, I've accepted from you so much bullying all these years for the famous book Pattacos sent me, I have one more reason. Because I don't understand your hypocrisy, gentlemen. So he wrote to FACEBOOK Mr. Tsipras that only George Karatzaferis said, and Mr.Mitsotakis dared to say this vulgarity. I want to answer and say who else are, to give him the opportunity to fix it. Phoebe Ioannides, a known anti-junta resistance, has given an entire interview for Mr. Tsipras' family and her relationship with the junta. Does Mr. Tsipras have to answer for them? And it's not Mr. Karatzaferis, Phoebes, Ioannides! And the even worse. Haven't you seen the video, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that Mr. Leventis here in the Chamber - not outside the Chamber, Mr. Stathakis - has he said that he was working at the company of the infinite Tsipras, that he was getting works from Pattaco and that father Tsipras seemed king and extreme right to him? Why is Leventis not answering Mr. Tsipras and making such a long post for Kyriakos Mitsotakis? What are you afraid of? Let's tell the Leventis who'll be here tonight. 'Cause Leventis said it two years ago, and he hasn't said a word. And I close because you make sense to me and you have the courage to give up on me for all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u235	Please finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u236	I'm just hanging up with this. There's a minister behind you. Let's all go back and see him. It's Mr. Terrence - Spencer Quick. I want to give him a chance now to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u237	Please, Mr. Georgiades, do not refer personally. Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u238	Haven't you seen Mr. Terrence - Spencer Quick's video online interviewing the airport from Pattaco? Haven't you seen it? None of you saw it? So you're hypocrites like that. So the policy debate is about your hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u239	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u240	You've seen everything, but in front of your chair you don't care at all. If you needed the vote of Stylianos Patakou to be in power, you'd take it. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u241	Previously, I have asked, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, not to speak personally, because they all ask for the floor on staff and I think that the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Leventis has finished the Polytechnic after the dictatorship. I know, because she's my school. Do we make new fairy tales now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I would be happy to give you the floor, please. Mr. Stathakis spoke with a British flare. We can't make an observation to him. All our views are free, but by invoking each other, invoking ourselves personally, we are creating a situation which is unacceptable to Parliament. I have asked that we apply the Rules of Procedure in this respect, and that applies to everyone. I'm not saying it for anyone personally. The Congressman of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Germenis, has the floor. The request, Mr. Germenis, is valid for everyone. I am not saying this for you, but the whole world has been devised by Parliament's image and I would ask everyone to help keep a level. I've said it three times. I'm telling you, not because it's you. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Many are those who are in this Chamber who say that the entrance of the Golden Dawn to the Greek Parliament is shaking the quality of the Greek Parliament. A Witness was here yesterday all the Greek people, when he listened to the disgrace of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the President of the Cyriakos Mitsotakis Officer. Parliament's level is being thrown both by SYRIZA and by Anti-National Opposition. We are discussing today the proposal for a vote of confidence set by Tsipras after Mitsotakis' motion of censure on Polakis, which Tsipras turned into a vote of confidence in his government. It seems that the New Democracy has been placed to resurrect the dead SYRIZA. I am afraid that by the October elections, unfortunately, the Macedonian issue will be forgotten, the Ambassadors' Agreement, because the choices made by the Qualified Opposition are very lukewarm, very light. He didn't raise any tones in the Prespecies Agreement, on the big topic, the biggest topic for us in the modern history of the place. Our story has been sold out. He was given a state, in a state such as Skopje, with the agreement of SYRIZA. And the New Democracy, as a Civic Opposition, has the power to lift up and raise the world from an end to Greece, but continues to say that the state has continued and will honour the signatures they have entered. You have not made a motion of censure for the mosque in the Botanic. Allow under the sacred rock of Acropolis to be heard shortly by the voice of the imam. You have not made a motion of censure on the cohabitation pact and on the practical dissolution of the Greek traditional family. What is the difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy? Absolutely nothing. We saw them parade from both the offices of Mitsotakis and Tsipras communities such as LGBTKI, but on the contrary, the doors of both masters are closed in both the Polish communities and Macedonian organisations. You have not made a motion of censure, and you have not raised the tons in what the Tsipra government wants to do, to separate the state from the Orthodox church. Separation of State - Church. It will bring orthodomy to the same level as religious organizations, such as Jehovah’s witnesses and various other Eastern religions. You have not made a motion of censure when we had the hundreds of people killed by the murderous fire in Matti, proved to be a tragedy, this disaster is the responsibility of the state, the state mechanism, for which only the SYRIZA government is responsible. You make a motion of censure for the Minister of Health, Polakis. In fact, as I was coming to Stepma, the President told me to keep a level, he says, in the debate and not to go away from it. And he forgets yesterday when the Minister, Mr. Paulakis, left the chairs, went aggressively towards Mr. Mitsotakis. If instead of Paul, there was someone else, someone else, a Caesian, a golden man, what would happen? We were going to talk about demolishing the civil society, about fascist practices, about trabucism, but there's nothing there. "Police" SYRIZA has too many, but of course Mr.Mitsotakis envyed the "Police" and said to do great transcriptions, barbaric transcriptions, such as Ceridis, Tatsopoulos, Psaryanos. We have also heard by Mr Mitsotakis' mouth that the New Democracy is a people's party. That's what he told us yesterday. And I wonder exactly how the people's party understands, between Harvard and Athens College and after coffee in Kolonaki, or at the price of the Bilderberg Club every year to invite your executives? You mean the People's Party? For us, SYRIZA and New Democracy are the same, in close proximity to PASOK, that you say exactly the same things in national matters and illegal immigration. Even in the economy, you're no different. You're saying the same thing. No difference. I am sure that the moment will come when you will be very briefly confronted, with the fear of coming and rising the Golden Dawn or, more generally, of Europe's nationalist movements. At the same time as we are having this debate in here, Turkey is going on drilling into the Exclusive Economic Zone of Cyprus and instead of the entire Greek state, the Greek Government, together with the Greek Parliament, is like a fist with the Government of Cyprus against the challenging of the Turks, we overheating, we are whistling indifferently. Such discussions, like today, disorientate public opinion from what is actually happening. Do not dream, some of SYRIZA, that what you did in Prespes will do it in the Aegean Sea, because this time you will find the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u245	Thank you. SYRIZA MP Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor. Then there is Mr. Pafilis, Mrs. Fotiou, Mr. Panagiotopoulos and then Mr. Paulakis. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u246	Day of the victory of the peoples against fascism today and Day of Europe. A black cloud is being deceived at this time above united Europe, the ghost of its dissolution in one of them has been formed, in competing states - nations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just Britain's fleeing, separatist tendencies, the extreme right rise in several European countries, Euroscepticism throughout the European Union. It is mainly a question of questioning its usefulness to many, young people, to the poor, to the unemployed, to those with disabilities, to those countries which receive the great refugee migration flows, to the countries of the South, to Greece and Cyprus, which are threatened by their borders. Just a few days before the self-government and the most critical European elections, the Chief of Police Response in Greece provoked a general debate in Parliament with a motion of distrust against the Deputy Minister for Health. He was deeply upset, said Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, by Paul Paul Paul Paulakis' unfortunate post on Stelios Kymbouropoulos. He also discovered the term "pollution" and charged Paul Paul Paul with all the sins of the world, all the mortal sins. Stelios Kyburopoulos himself may have been annoyed by Paul's comments on the way he was appointed to the National Health System, but he did something unbelievably better than Mr Mitsotakis' motion of censure. He called for a confrontation of arguments to deal with disability and disabled people. Unfortunately, this useful debate has not taken place. Fortunately, Betty Scoofa's speech this morning gave all the data to deal with disability and disabled people from government policy. The return of the "ERRIKOS DYAN" to his joint orientation has been announced these days. A state-of-the-art nursing jewelry in the center of Athens with twenty-five surgery, thirty-eight beds ICU, twenty-four beds of an artificial kidney, seventy-eight short-stay beds, becomes a hospital of the National Health System after the government's decision to cooperate with the "Onassis Foundation" and to submit a proposal to buy the "ERRIKOS DYAN" from Piraeus Bank that operated it as a private clinic. Among the protagonists of this useful effort that offers this valuable hospital to the RHS and to any patient, rich or poor, insured or uninsured, was the Deputy Minister of Health. So what is "pollution"? The preoccupational statements for Stelios Kyburopoulos, the banned public smoking of the Deputy Minister of Health, the heavy style, the bourgeoisie of Paul or his honesty, his medical offer, his huge contribution to the support and upgrading of the National Health System, as well as the uncovering of scandals for the destruction of public money, i.e. the conversion of the "ERRIKOS DONYAN", the mutual nursing institution of the "Greek Red Cross" into a private clinic, the conversion of the CCEE to a duplicate and trade, the demolition of consciences from the "NOVARTIS"? The New Democracy made the motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul Paul as a pronunciamento, in order not to discuss what is mainly of interest to the citizens, the real situation of the Greek economy nine years after the memorials of inferiority, the new era after the emancipation of the country from the suffocating guardianship of its lenders, the restoration of plundering, the sustainable debt service, the fairness of the Greek people, the incentives to return to Greece of the gifted young people, the productive reconstruction, the necessary reforms, the Government's initiatives for the recovery and extroversion of the Greek economy in support of research, innovation, healthy and intelligent entrepreneurship, the permanent relief and relief measures of the layers that raised the burdens of the crisis. The New Democracy has made the motion of censure to change the agenda from the issues that highlight the major programming contradictions of the parties in the face of the critical elections. He wanted a "yellow" agenda with "pollution", "getsology", "coterology", but the alteration by the Prime Minister of the motion of censure to a proposal for a vote of confidence in the government restored the public debate to the major problems for Greece and united Europe. In this debate, the comparative ideological advantage of SYRIZA is evident as a party of the modern left seeking to create the progressive front for the fair and sustainable development of the country in a different Europe, in Europe of solidarity, peaceful coexistence of peoples, participatory democracy, new Enlightenment, quality of life, humanity, the removal of inequalities. Greece has changed page after August 21st 2018. It regained freedom, liberated by the blackmailing obsessions of its lenders in the internal devaluation theory, reduced unemployment by 10 points, has a reserve of EUR 31 billion, increased industrial production, exports, and has positive growth rates. "Greece is now a different country, which has all the preconditions to take over its own fate, without additional support," Mario Stentenno found. With this conclusion, all objective analysts of the course and perspective of the Greek economy agree. You are wrong in the country when you demonize, when you present the catastrophic scenario for the present reality in Greece, when you devise a dissolution of the hospitals, the dissolution of the ESS. Today, Greece has become a leading philosopher in the Balkans, it is a pillar of stability in the Eastern Mediterranean, contrary to Turkey's provocative, aggressive, turbulent policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And this Greece can proceed to the gradual vindication of the sacrifices of the Greek people, to permanent measures for relief and relief of the layers that lifted the burdens. The government has already announced several of these measures. It has also announced the holistic strategic plan for a fair and sustainable development with all the important progressive reforms that promote it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u247	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u248	I shall conclude, therefore, by saying this: for the time being, for the establishment of the progressive front in Greece and Europe, for our documented plan for the future, the government is calling for Parliament's confidence. We, our parliamentary group, our party, are asking for the majority of the Greek people to be trusted. This debate, which took place on the initiative of Mr Mitsotakis to hit SYRIZA, finally strengthens our efforts to have a third people's mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty students and students and five educational attendants from the Kolymbari High School of Chania and from the German School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u250	Today, on May 9, it is the anniversary of the great anti-fascist victory of the peoples, the immortal epic of the Soviet Red Army, which no one catches in his mouth. Twenty million dead, five million members and members of the Communist Party! Today is the day of the anti-fascist victory of the Red Army, the resistance movements of Europe, the pioneering and decisive role of the Communist parties, and the people know who organized, who led, who left the fingernails of fascism that the communists then handed over and organized this great surveillance. We are proud of this, we are proud that our party was and is in the front line against fascism. This is not Europe's Day today, Mrs. Lyberakis and Mrs. Kafantaris. What Europe? And Hitler Europe wasn't? It is not Europe's Day, as unscrupulously attempts to establish the European Union and all the other parties that drink water in its name - all of you except the JRC. Over the years the European Union has been trying to eradicate anti-fascist victory from people's memory, all these years together, the People's Party, social democrats, liberals, all the immoralists of capitalism, and with the tolerance of certain so-called leftists. And don't rush to protest. I'll get you information about what they've voted for. But JRC and some others, they're all trying to forge the story. They are trying to acquit fascism, equating the most darkest theory, the most extreme form of capital power, the theory of Nazism - fascism, with the most innovative theory of human minds, the theory of communism. Why is that? Because fascism is a form - extreme though - of capital power and has been historically proven. I've said it many times, who handed over power to Hitler, what the Americans, etc. All these years, the European Union has been consciously not making any effort. It acquiescites fascism, supports governments that have communist parties illegally, those who entered the front line and fought fascism. He legalizes and supports governments that give pensions to SS killers who collaborated with Hitler. All these years of silence, it encourages fascism and not the extreme right, as you say. Are you afraid of the word? And this, beyond all else, is an insult to the millions of victims, to the 50 million dead, of which 20 million were Soviets who were sacrificed to break the Nazi monster. The European Union, which you have a flag, with its barbaric policy and its vulgar, sleek anti-communism, does not respect anything over the years. Respect what? People's blood drink. And you have them for Europe too! What Europe, really? The one that highlights fascist heroes and fighters against fascism is going to jail? It has, therefore, raised fascism with its policy - anti-population, barbaric policy - and anti-communism - the generalist - and the programmes implemented by all the governments of the Member States of the European Union. Because it turns out that rival awe is communism and it's not fascism. Fascism is their child and their child not only does not deny it, but they support it. Why? Because they're the puppys of the system. Sometimes they tie them up, and sometimes they do nothing for them to hit the people. And today, in front of the elections, you say all of this - I am sorry for the expression, politically, I mean - 'Europe', 'European Union', about 'playing', 'for the people'. Which people? It's the dictatorship of the monopolies cynical! I'm addressing the people. What has the European Union done in the crisis? He pissed off the Greek people, crushed the workers, sent them to death too many, to hunger, to poverty. In this European Union, in front of the European elections, you say 'progressive front'. With who, really? To describe who did all this, over the years, especially in the 2000s. Who were they? Mr Webber's People's Party, for example, is flagged. Just them? Social Democrats together, liberals together, all set this dance up, to encourage the people to live a human life. With them, you are asking for a progressive front, and that is what young people and the people must know. That is why, in front of the polls of the European elections, everyone who hates, who hates fascism must take a leap in the ballot, cast the ballot with the hammer of the JRC, the hammerhead who entered the heart of fascism, on Reichstag in 1945, because they smashed fascism and not the western allies, Mrs Kafantar, who are afraid to say even historical truth. That will be the real answer. Because the communists are the ones who were and are on the front line - and not just - of the anti-fascist struggle. This will be the answer to the Golden Dawn, which is grieving today. Don't look at him saying it. He's got pilgrims on. Seventy-four years weep every day. That's the answer to go to the trash in history. As regards the debate and the 'confrontation' yesterday very high-level, indeed astonishing at the level of political leaders, we have nothing to say. Distance! People hate it, you know it. All of them! But it does not work, it is not innocent, nor is it spontaneous. She's set up. We've lived her before. What's the aim? To acquit the capitalist system, to hide the strategic agreement that exists and called 'capitalism' and 'European Union' between the parties of the European capitalist arch and to thicken the world to the best, that is to say, the individual political disgraceful gossip, regardless of whether it is based or not - we do not care. We are not one of those who will fight with such weapons, because our ideas are supreme, regardless of whether they are expressed. But I want to repeat something: we have lived through it and the people have lived through it. If you remember the controversies of PASOK - New Democracy, they had reached such a worse point and yellowism had taken off then. I don't want to say anything. Mr. Kammens told Papandreou of 17 November and went out yesterday and said that it was another thing, that he was another leader. See what's going on, that's. What's the most important thing? As the controversy arose, it actually reached the ends with misery, so shocked the PASOK and New Democracy programs. And this unbelievable thing that the JRC was saying at the time, that they'll once collide to salvage the system, and all of us swearing to us, it actually happened. This is a picture of the future. Write that down. Aleka Papariga told you so. It's a picture of the future. Not the immediate, perhaps, but the longer term, going to be done with other faces, possibly with other relatives, in order to serve the system. The government triumphs. To tell you the truth, a little modesty doesn't hurt. Of course, there is no modesty in this extreme political controversy that exists and which hides the causes. But it's causing the people. It says in the New Democracy "we hit where you failed". We agree. What did the government achieve? It achieved full implementation of the first, second and third Memorandum, including all previous ones. What was the target? These were said by some, because others were stealing them. What was the target of the first, second and third after? It didn't change because SYRIZA came. Same line. To charge the crisis to the people, to create a preconditions and an institutional framework for increasing the profitability of capital. Well, that's what some people used to call sniffers at the time. In another language, of course. Those were the memos. The government has implemented them. And how do you explain that the 'brows', the inhumans, the robbers of the sacred people, Merkel, the International Monetary Fund, the 'brows' of Europe give you congratulations? Why? But Mr. Tsipras said so. “ Because we have succeeded. We have managed to implement all these measures." There's two things going on here. Or the crows became shit or you guys became crows. Let the people draw the conclusions. I guess the second one. Not to say the second one is. You have precisely implemented this policy. What the capital requested, the European Union, the IMF, has implemented it. Shall I say it? Reduce pensions, wages, hit social security. Yes or no? Did wages decrease over your day? You're hovering today because by ministerial decision you've given some crumbs. They're down. Elements of yours, not ours. Is the work jungle maintained? Maintained. Is social spending a total reduction in the four-year period? Social costs are falling. Is everything privatized? Indeed, Mr Stathakis - congratulations on that! - You say we do the job better than you did. And in this area too. You put all the wealth of Greece in a fund for ninety years. And you come now and say 'we are with the many'. It's tragedy, isn't it? Are you with the many of you because you share some crumbs? What do you think the world is? Is that what you're You have all eaten 60 billion of the pensioners and now you are giving them 800 million. It says Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, despite the tones she has - and we appreciate that - that 'whoever does not understand and says about crumbs is out of reality'. Really, what's the penny in a year? What's a penny for a year? And whoever gets 501 euros won't get 100%. And whoever gets 701 euros will get 50%. And the others 30%. Is that your money? You claim you have a class partition. We're totally in agreement. You have a class bias in favour of capital - and we will prove it - and a class anaesthesia in favour of many, for whom you are sworn. Who did you make the surpluses from? I'm telling Mr. Stathakis, who's in charge. Go out and tell us how the excesses were created. How much did he pay for the capital? Not only in the crisis, but now, with the excesses. Honestly, what are you talking about class policy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me go, Mr. President. That thing every time. Let go of me. Please. The other guy spoke an hour and a half. We'll talk, too. You're bored by the bell and I'm gonna talk. Income taxes. How much does it pay for the capital that holds 60% of GDP? It contributes 6% to the budget. 94% of who he is? That's where you got it from. And you're talking about a class mark. I'll tell you what class is. Indirect taxes: Increase 4.2 billion from 2015 to 2018. And now you're giving a billion in total, and you're pretending to be the philanthropists. Shame on you, at least! How the 31 billion was gathered and the pillow, beyond the 15 which were given and which will be returned, do you know how? From the blood and sweat of the working class and the popular layers. Do you have a class badge? To describe it. When all this happened to the capitalists, you gave tax exemption and aid. Reduction of tax from 29% to 25%, 50% reduction in the tax on distributed profits. Listen. While you are fiercely taxing workers, you have reduced from 15% to 10% in the distributed profits of large companies. That's not a class mark, it's a class sign. You secure the interests of big capital and you are proud of it. Shall we go talk about the special status? Here you give incentives and tax exemptions by reducing the amount of investment from 20 to 15 million per million tax exemptions for one place. Listen. People learn. A job. That kind of challenge? Every one million investment if it has a job, it gets into a special scheme. The New Democracy cries. What are you yelling at? Didn't you vote for all this? Everything that was in favour of capital you voted for. Yes or no? And you're asking for more. And everyone else. You're talking lower, shipowners. We don't go into that logic and never get into it. But in article 103, you've all had the duck. We have asked for a review. Don't you have your God? In the first country in a commercial fleet in the world with unstoppable profits for shipowners to pay less than crews? Still, no one's talkin'. We have said to revise, to introduce certain limits to this unscrupulous, unbelievable amount of money that the worker sees. What he's been working all his life in one night is spent. Nothing about it. Shall we go to other places? Shall we go to the new package you're bringing? Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Drasakis have said it very high for the workers, who are crumbs. It's a billion. Make an account. But for what he gives the capitalists, he didn't talk about. In other words, new tax exemptions for new investment from an increase in depreciation rate from 100% to 150%. Greater State subsidy for employers' insurance contributions. In other words, you say that we are making a policy to reduce unemployment in the workers' pockets. What do you get from the capitalists? You're doing the opposite. You're giving them more, like they're poor and they can't. So you and the New Democracy are not the same parties. We're not leveling. But the parties are not judged by whether they are the same or not. It's different. But the strategy is the same. What's your difference? The New Democracy is in favour of capitalist development and you are in favour of the development of capitalism. This is the great difference you have and it has been historically demonstrated that, when the extreme traditional right cannot, which has individual differences, then social democracy came. And now comes what Anelli said and said Karathanasopoulos, the light Left, which is the golden reserve of the system. Really, are you asking us for a vote of confidence? American-Natural Left? You're asking for a vote of confidence, Piat's lads, all together, NATO, imperialism, people's slaughterers? They'll all rise from their grave with what you're doing. By the way, Mr. Pyatt is talking to the Chamber of Economic Affairs today. He's the only foreign ambassador. He's on the progressive front because he organised a fascist coup in Ukraine. Vote of that kind you won't get! And even if you lure people, you'll pay them as a laundry of imperialism. So instead of looking for differences, KIC bite, everywhere! If he seeks to find differences in the New Democracy and SYRIZA, the people will search in vain. The JRC vote, support beside the JRC, with all the disagreements, because we were standing up and you worshiped barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u251	Thank you. Mrs Fotio, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating these days between family members and cries for the thirteenth pension and welfare. Are the benefits, social benefits or free social services a gift for some or an obligation of the state for all? Social protection, pensions, welfare, that is, is the third pillar of the social state. Along with the other two pillars, public health and public education, it is the citizens' shield for fair growth, social cohesion and the fight against inequalities. This social state has been hit all over Europe by austerity policies in the crisis. There was the great victim of neoliberalism, supported by Mr Weber and Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis always speaks remarkably of public education and public health, he is intolerant to the thirteenth pension and the privileged benefits. That's why he never told us anything about the welfare state. But that is the dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, of these European elections in Europe, whether we will continue with the dissolution of the social state in the name of growth and investment or whether we will start a new start, with a strong social state, with open borders, with fair growth. In Greece, of course, things have evolved much worse than in Europe, without a protection net for the poor by 2015, without an organised welfare state for all. We have been listening to the propaganda of New Democracy all this time, that SYRIZA destroyed the middle class. This is a great lie, a great myth. The middle class was destroyed by the coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK. In 2009 there were three million seven thousand of our fellow citizens in extreme poverty. This 2015 became three million eight hundred twenty-nine thousand fellow citizens. That is, from 2009 to 2015, eight hundred and twenty-two thousand of our fellow citizens, out of the five million that make up the middle class, the middle layers, went through the poorest layers. I testify here to ELSTAT's painting, which proves what I said. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theano Folios, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] But those who stayed in the middle layers also saw their incomes falling drastically. A family with two children, in 2010, in the middle layers, had incomes from 24,000 to 34,000 euros a year. In 2015 her incomes were from 15,000 to 21,720. So she lost 37% of her income. Since 2015, because you're asking me, he started recovering a small part of these incomes. I'm filing the second panel. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theano Folios, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] We believe that strengthening social protection is a development project and that it is about medium-sized strata. That is why we increased the welfare funds from 780 million, which we received, to 3 billion euros. We have had the lowest costs from all over Europe for welfare. They only concerned poor layers and were given as tips, charity with opaque criteria. We have widened our privileged policies and medium-sized strata, as all developed states do, with two contagious measures, the first for the child and the second for the roof. These concern medium-sized strata, they do not concern poor ones. We have increased from EUR 822 million, in difficult years, to EUR 1 billion 400 000 for the child. How did we do it? With the new child's allowance. Within a year we only increased the children receiving child benefit from a million four hundred thousand in a million fifty thousand. As far as school meals are concerned, we give a hundred and fifty - three thousand each day. 2022 will be six hundred thousand every day in all the schools in the country. We are increasing the number of nurseries with thousands of new places for children. We extend the free entrance to nurseries for all mothers, working, unemployed, poor. Because the unemployed and the poor you had forgotten them. For this year, all children will enter free at nursery stations of these incomes. So we dropped child poverty two units in two years, from 26.3% in 2015 to 24.5% in 2017. 2020 estimates that the rates of child poverty will be lower than 2008. But how was child poverty in 2008, the times of prosperity, a pre-crisis? I'm returning ELSTAT's data. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theano Folios, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] At the time of prosperity it was 23%, that is, one out of four children was in poverty and social exclusion. What does that mean? That growth, Mr Mitsotakis, is not enough by itself to combat the inequalities that you have now remembered, while you consider them to be a natural phenomenon, namely that you may have growth, but one in four children being poor. With housing measures today, we have two hundred forty thousand approved families or six hundred thousand citizens who first receive a roof allowance. These are measures that we are implementing, announced by the Prime Minister at the IGC. It's not about the poor, it's about the middle layers. We have been listening to a second myth of the New Democracy propaganda, that SYRIZA has created a state of benefits. What's the truth? In 2015 in welfare I found fifty-four employees, two hundred allowances given from a hundred twenty different sources and thousands of institutions, without being recorded, with nothing. Within two years we have founded a transparent welfare state, with two digital pillars. On the one hand, the regions, the two forty-two community centres, which you have voted against. Right didn't want them. Why is that? On the other hand, a single organisation, a new Social Solidarity Benefit Agency, OPEKA, which gives all digital allowances with six database crossings - has never done so, why not? - without suspicious mediation. What are the benefits? The allowances, dear, are six: the CRL, the child's allowance, the housing allowance, the handicapped allowances, the overtime allowance and the rural income allowance. And we challenge Mr. Mitsotakis: which one will he cut when he comes in his kingdom? So we abolished the institutional and voluntary welfare state that we received, that was blossoming in customer relations and corruption. We give Greek citizens the knowledge of their rights, the dignity we owe them. We relieve them of all sorts of clienteles and endless bureaucracy. At the same time, we digitally transfer to the state and regions every day, again digitally, all the information from community centres and from the OPEKA, in order to intervene in time, control and review their policies. The community centers in 2019 are extended to all municipalities in the country, unless you want to abolish them here and now, they are strengthened with two new structures, a hundred additional family support centres and fifty full-time care centres (OFELI). But let us now come to the point that caused the motion of censure by the New Democracy on the rights of the disabled. The Prime Minister said so yesterday. The highest right of SMEs is to integrate them into society and work, which is why they are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. They're not sick, they're not in the Department of Health. In order for this integration to take place, it requires positive discrimination in favour of the disabled, in order to ensure their equivalence with the non-disabled. In order to eliminate the inequality created by the disability situation, we have, as we should have, made a positive distinction in favour of the disabled, who took place in a difficult period between 2015 and 2019. For work, of course, 15% of new jobs in the public sector are exclusively for HEIs, mobilisation at all posts, maintenance of the disabled’s allowance when finding a fixed-term employment or mentally ill. We exclude the disability allowance from his income, and we donate the child with disabilities and his family with all benefits, with the firm conviction that they were no favors, no favors, no graciousness, no obligation of the Left government to the constitutionally guaranteed rights of the disabled. We do not expect Mr Mitsotakis to understand this either, or his party, who has candidates to declare that they do not want moleculosis, allowances, favors, but equal opportunities. Mr Mitsotakis says he will bring growth and investment down horizontally. In order to reduce taxation horizontally, it must cut off the positive benefits, the positive discrimination, the benefits that we, the allowances of the disabled, have been targeted by the lenders and we have saved them. What did the IMF say in 2016 and why do you do exactly the same thing and say the same thing? You have - said the IMF - two hundred allowances given by a hundred twenty sources, corruption - complication. This cannot continue. You will cut it, save a billion and make it a minimum guaranteed income - which you say - and there will put all the benefits, that is, only for extreme poverty. That's what Mitsotakis said at the ICU, that's what he's been hiding and doesn't say so long, that's what he's got all over the world! We and the CRL gave and didn't cut a single allowance. Since last month, we have been giving all the benefits of the disabled on the same day, every month, digitally. Do you know what a fuss that was? You know that was the request of the wheelchair movement from the first day I went there and said no government ever did it? Why is that? The huge change, however, which we are trying to make in the disability area is about dehydration. I could say a lot about disability, but I'll tell you another time. The decoupling, ladies and gentlemen, has two sides. One is to get the disabled out of the institutions, and at the same time the other is those who are in their homes, to keep them in their homes, not to be forced to go to institutions or to live on family roofs. That is why, in order to abolish asylum, as in the Lehana, we are implementing a 15 million-dollar pilot programme, with huge results at the moment. We have carried out two major legislative initiatives, the law on the taking up and adoption of the law and the Staff Regulations on roofs supported by these family units, that is to say, so that every four, every five, per nine, the disabled can live together as a family. The Act on Assumption today counts four hundred fifty applications, so that no child remains inside an institution. At the same time, we have ensured the establishment of a hundred and fifty housing supportive lives, with 50 million from the NSRP, movable units for early intervention and stable units for short hospitality for the SNEs and their families. We don't go back, we go on. We are the ones who rebuilt the privileged state. In our visionary society, there are no prejudices and discrimination in the society that we are building. We are creating a welfare state for all, reestablishing injustices and pathogens for decades, so that everyone can actually gain equal opportunities. It is their right, of all citizens. It's our obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too. Mr Panagiotopoulos, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an answer to the previous Minister. I must tell her that the policy of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis is not aimed at eliminating allowances, but at eliminating the conditions leading to poorer conditions, so that citizens are dependent on benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u255	Shut up, good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u256	You spoke, Minister. You can be ironic, but now you'll hear the answer. And for your days, the truth is that the poor have become and more and poorer. And the benefits became more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u257	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u258	And more and less! And you come now and tell us that we are introducing more benefits to dependents than these benefits. This is not how the country should be rescheduled, nor the announcements made by the Prime Minister, who have confined themselves to benefits policy, will bear the country's rescheduling. Of course, I would remind you that the CRL, which you have finally adopted, and when it was a minimum guaranteed income, you called it a 'poverty trap', is not exhausted in granting the allowance, income support, but also has a second phase, which is social reintegration through reintegration into the labour market. And that's the hardest part. But you are not interested in social reintegration by reintegration into the labour market. Customers will tell us "thank you" because we will give them the allowance. I shall now return to the debate on the motion of censure. Last night the Prime Minister made another conversion. The Prime Minister has appealed to conversions. The 'no' of the referendum turned it into 'yes', its world patent that became an international term of the political vocabulary. Shading the memorials turned it into another memorial and put it with 10 billion austerity measures and put it on. The motion of censure against his Minister has turned it into a motion of censure against all or rather a vote of confidence - if you would like - on the whole of his government, of course, by being fully united in substance with his Minister and, once again, by violating parliamentary order, because no regulation provides for this conversion. But yesterday, he made another conversion. It has turned a very serious parliamentary debate, as it should be a debate on a motion of censure or a vote of confidence - we choose and take - to the Government in a café debate, with the relevant tsubukkas, with its unobtrusive designations, personal designations, which, fortunately, have not been answered. It's not the Left's privilege to launch personal attacks. When you give, sometimes you have to be ready and get back with the aggression of the one who has his nest, because holidays in a seaman, ladies and gentlemen, do not go hand in hand with the left-hand approach and left-handness. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Although at another reading, ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely the left approach: a lot of hypocrisy and even more enjoyment of the prerogatives of power next to the elites and their kind sponsorship. In the same sense, therefore, ladies and gentlemen... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're disturbing, but let me go. I'll finish sometime and get rid of my annoying speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u259	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u260	So, according to the same logic, Mr. Paulakis - is he here or is he not? Too bad he's gone, but he's gonna come, I guess, somewhere he's gonna hear them -- it's a meaning and not a face. Here I remember the definition of the coffee debate during the underestimated Lebbissis. Lebesis says: "Café is not the debate when the debate is taken to the café, but when the café is transferred to the debate, because the café is a concept and not a thing." In the same logic, Paulakis is a concept and not a natural person. And the first point I have to make is that, within the parliamentary majority of the SYRIZA, it does not appear to enjoy the same confidence and solidarity as that reserved by Mr Tsipras. We saw it yesterday, in the presence of a parliamentary majority of his colleagues in the Chamber, a little awkward about the attitude of Mr Drasakis, who came to see the proposal put forward by Mr Mitsotakis, our President, other words to be loved. We, however, insist that we discuss the motion of censure against Minister Polakis, because we have asked for this in writing, and Parliament must take a decision tomorrow evening, despite the changes in government. What, then, is this notion of 'polluterism' expressed by this particular person, with the most recent case - shameful - and extremist - the drop in the glass, its unacceptable personal assault on a person with serious disabilities, who has found the courage - if you like - to respond as he should, with due morality and due decency to the person who has not had it in the end? Answer me. The concept of "polluterism" is the style and morality of this government as a whole, the deep contempt for this government many times, in terms of vengeance in the rules and institutional order of democracy, because it is the urban democracy that the concept of "Polaki" despises, the liberal Western urban democracy. That's why the so-called smokes out at the press conference at the Ministry of Health. What anti-smoking law now? The laws are us, because we are power. What European Commissioner now? We despise him, because we also despise Europe in depth. That's why he appoints a party friend, the owner of a vulcanizer, the administration of a state hospital, because power is what we want to do and we sell cheeks to the opposite with these moves. That is why he is threatening journalists who dare to criticise him because he does not believe either in freedom of expression or in the right to another view. That is why he has made systematic attacks on the judiciary about personal hobby in terms of persistence, sometimes asking for further explanations from judicial officers for handling those who do not like pending cases, sometimes proclaiming provocations of political rivals. What presumption of innocence now, that this government voted two months ago? That's legal. Speaking of other times, you have to listen to judges. "I know where you live"! We would expect these from the Mafia of Korydallus, not from the Minister of Government, to say "I know where you live". And what principle of separation of powers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Panagiotopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u262	I shall conclude, Mr President, I will not trouble you too much. That is why he ignores or does that he ignores the laws of the state and comes afterward to say that he did not know that his words were distorted when he realizes that what he said, his actions, are a felony act under our Criminal Law, Article 370a Criminal Code, violation of secret phone conversation or oral conversation, the well-known case of the phone call in Stournara. Because when he is attacking the excellent judges or judges or even Adonis Georgiadis is threatening, but when he is defending himself behind his parliamentary immunity, this appalling privilege of the old and rotten is supposed to be a system and beg the House not to lift it. And you know what the worst is? This style, this so-called "Revolutionary Popolaros", is tolerated by this style, not to say it approves, Mr. Tsipras and is identified, as is the whole of his government, with the flawless Sfakian, even when he attacks justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u263	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u264	Well, we in this unscrupulous version of power say here. You, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, what are you going to say tomorrow? Will you be identified or will you make the oral objections, but in practice, which some of you have recently expressed? We'll see. Either way, I cannot give the vote of confidence to your Government, because it has been lost long ago in the consciousness of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and apprentices and seven educational attendants from the Municipal School of Lentenitsas Artas, the 3rd Municipal School of Artas and the Municipal School of Rachis Artas and the Municipal School of St. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kanelli will follow, and then the Minister, Mr Paulakis, will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u267	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u268	Everyone here expresses their position. The Minister spoke, Mr. Panayotopoulos answered. Does the Minister have any personal matters and ask why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u269	I would like to reply to Mr Panagiotopoulos, who said to me this: First, Mr Panagiotopoulos did not understand that precisely the allowances are a level playing field. For people to be equal, we have to pay allowances. There is no state that gives no benefits to everyone, to the disabled, to the children, to the elderly and everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u270	Is that what he said? Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u271	Look, there is no interactive debate, because then the Minister will answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u272	Secondly, what Mr Panayotopoulos did not understand is that the element I tabled states that eight hundred and twenty-two thousand people moved from the middle class to the lower layers. Take the lead, it's ELSTAT's. This was until 2015, Mr. Panayotopoulos. From 2015 until today, until 2017, which is the elements of ELSTAT, on the contrary, a hundred twenty-seven thousand went back to the middle layers. Let's read the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u273	You're done. Thank you. Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u275	Is there going to be an interactive conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u276	There's no anticipation of what you've done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u277	The Minister has no right to speak whenever he wants! This procedure does not provide for a secondary minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u278	I'm sorry, as you know better than I do when the Minister asks the floor, the Rules say that the Bureau is giving it to him, but then...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u279	If the Minister responds every time when he hears something he doesn't like, what happens? So should the Minister have the last word?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u280	Well, whatever he wanted to say. So the Minister won't answer that later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u281	You talk nice. I don't want to talk. What do you suggest? Starting an interactive conversation and never ending? He'll ask for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u282	Be serious, because it's time to shoot!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u283	I didn't know he'd refer to Mr. Panayotopoulos personally. Now what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u284	He made a denomination twice, Mr. President. That's why I'm asking for the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u285	Please, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u286	Mrs. Canelle can allow for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u287	I'm honored to be allowed to. Look, I'll only be raw on one thing. I'm sixty-five years old. I have forty-five years in the profession of journalist and I have nineteen years of MP. I'm gonna set up a show - believe me - the three hundred-dollar specialty, the 300-dollar specialty! On staff with what is being heard in here I have been murdered as a character and not as a cartoon by all governments, from all within my 40-year-old! I've been left-wing state-government and I've been hit by the "Ruvikon"! I've been on a private channel and my fascists have fallen off without a show without even thinking about it! I stood up to defend a political opponent and nobody showed up in the trial for which I hadn't sued. You will allow me to be angry, because there have been talk of yellows! Why did you catch all the journalists arrested, putting the word "partners" and "partners" in a time when big parties - and you know it very well - you rent the companies that make multinationals on the Internet. And you're making a legitimate parapopulation, as you make a legitimate charity, which is illegal. You get a sensitivity and sensitivity you've traded. You traded the feelings of people, of all people! You are creating a policy, literally, of special need for deception together. You've been in the same ideological, economical prestige! I was looking for a word. Not to say sharp, not to say yacht, not to say that, not to say that, not to say sailor. Puppiri! And I think the world that's out there listening to us right now wants to have fun to see after "Radio Arvyla". Why do we have to be nails in here? Snitch of what? It takes you hours - the pain in cigarettes. Corps are now smoking in Palestine! Corpses smoke! You are talking about national dominations and you are going to create a conception. Today I was on a scheduled schedule, where the media won't show it, tour school at the Disabled Rehabilitation Foundation. There you go! They were shiny, clean. The Army made them. Hello? The Army made them! The officer who was in charge came in: "To greet you, Madam Congressman." In this situation the Army needed to build the disabled schools! And we're having a conversation, a curiosity. You're talking about your families! Cheap, though, don't you? Don't you have a gum? Do you want to take the gum off? Is the gum coming out? Is it possible for this thing to continue? How many parents have they carried how many back children? I don't want to talk about any of the things that were said. Nothing! I want to talk about what no one is talking about now, the toy on the map with land, with the honoration of nations and peoples. I want to talk about the Prespes model, which is going to be applied with mathematical accuracy to the overthrows that energy colossians want and the big capital in the Southeast Mediterranean. I want to talk about the problems that military personnel can have on the material. And you know very well, no car, no bike, no duck, nothing moves, if there's no fuel! What kind of homes? Toll homes! Tolls are made down. Cooperatives. And you go with a debate that covers the whole reality of putting our hopes in NATO and in the European Union. I mean, mercy! The American Ambassador talks about investment where he stands and where he is found. And he told us that we also have his trust today. He made an entire announcement that the Greek Government had its confidence in investment and development. He's the same representative of a government that cuts money and stops the operation of its own government, because they didn't give him money to build a wall for the refugees not to pass through Mexico! That's him! That kind of growth you want? How many walls will it fix? There's a wall around Souda. Flies won't go in! Fly doesn't get into Souda! Is that an investment? And we're gonna make another four or five, and we're gonna have growth? So where are we going? In the Eastern Mediterranean, the game is played so that things can come marginally. We are talking here about this and neither of us hears from the ultrapatriots to the others that there is a second Attila at sea? And this second Attilas, where did he come from? From the communist story, last year's sour grapes? You can't say about the dead who have given their souls so that fascism won't pass! Where did they come from? From NATO! Next door. The people next door. Partners next door. They're naval allies. The debate on the European Union. Didn't you tell Cyprus? Are you going to create the illusion to the people that by pressing on NATO and on the Americans, you bring peace and security, as you said after the Prespes? So open up, today, you will see in the change that the head of the national guard in Kosovo has been retired. He was in Iowa at his house and said what development would be like in Kosovo with the help of the United States after the bombings, after ten years. Because they all do business. The business is so much the same that the nazi leaders who have blooded Europe, the day it is today, 9 May, are the ones who have been restored and made all NATO officers! All NATO officers! In 1955 NATO had a leader in Vermacht! This was the depreciation that took place in this Europe of monopolies, twilights and unions. Every time there is a humanitarian crisis, a little digging over hypocrisy, underneath it will have oil, but rare earths, but diamonds, gold, aluminum, but something from Darfur to Sudan! The Americans, NATO, are cutting countries all over the world to the levels of their sphere of influence. They are preparing for war throughout the region, to stop the silk road, to fight with China, to fight with Germany. What investment you are talking about and making the people believe that it can feel safe, hanging on the 'green line' that still separates Cyprus, with 40% of the island in possession of the European Union! And now we'll talk about where the drill is going to pierce and if it's a second invasion. Why the first invasion who stopped her? Has the European Union stopped it? Did NATO stop her? Did the people paid for it by the blue-crowded peoples stop it? Has the ambassadors and the ambassadors of good will stopped it? Where did you see that written? Why don't you let the people express themselves? But how can you let him express himself? Here the right to strike entered the statistic. You took it and put it in the statistic. The collective reaction must have 50% plus, depending on the union, to get out, even in the municipality. We have tabled an amendment. No one has to deal with this amendment. If it was the amendment of the beautiful image of the attendees here or of writing history at the viewing level, you would have signed it with five, all together! I'm sixty-five. There is no way, not to live, neither my children nor my grandchildren will live in the hundred years when the memorandum ends. And we're going to extend NATO. We will extend the concept of NATO. You're paralyzing an alibi. What's the sign, what's the point? Paphis's right. What's the sign and what's the sign you're talking about? The 'outside the bases of death', even if you start to say it again now, since you've been on the same ship of capitalism, and say it, 'outside the bases of death', you know what will happen? The bases will go away and death will stay. Because NATO, the Americans have a way of doing it. As long as we are within'strunga', you are trying to convince the people that freedom of the market also guarantees freedom of people and citizens. That's your big problem! That's a reason for serious reproach. After all, these genuine defenders of capitalism called it a life. Now you say it in another way and in another language. As grievous as it may be, the world can't! - He understands. Therefore, freedom of markets, comrades, friends, enemies, opponents, does not guarantee the freedom of people. Nothing else. He's polishing the wire from the cage! It makes the chain shiny and clear. Today, which is 9 May and we are having this debate, if there was a tendency in this place to gain not only the wealth of its people, but also the wealth of its people and not to be overwhelmed, beggars, awesomes, satisfied with a fishbird, would be to be able to regain his freedom. And to regain his freedom, he must take authority. And in order to take power, he must take the means of production into his hands. And to get the means of production in his hands, he will not pave his way either NATO or the European Union. Remember something. It is very fashionable for 'Bella Ciao'. The robbery and rhetoric that took place did not make the robbery left because of 'Bella Ciao' or the robbery communist, because they called him 'Moscha'. We shall of course vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. Mr Polakis has the floor for twelve minutes under the Rules of Procedure. There will be tolerance of time, as is the case with everyone, Mr Polakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you in advance for the tolerance you have said that you will show, because I have indeed heard a lot these days and I have to give as much an answer as I can. I must say that I was very concerned about the language that I had to use today to deal with the motion of censure tabled by the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis toward me and which we have turned into a motion of censure for the government. Thought I'd use the Sfakia language or Harvard's language? But after I quickly thought, I realized that whatever I may use, Mr Mitsotakis will not be able to understand them. As far as the first one is concerned, because he does not know the culture and psycho-composition and the morality of the Sfakians and Cretans as he needs to understand it on the other hand, I understand that even the other language of Harvard - which he is a graduate - will understand. Because in his speech yesterday he showed that besides inadequate he is also a fugitive. He had two weeks to prepare for a top parliamentary procedure, which he provoked. And yesterday he made a speech that was unresolved. It was a combination of cheeses without any argument, with expressions of the formula: "Tsipras the scaffold", ""pollism" is fascism", "bamboo we open and in the end we find Polakis". It is one thing that seems not to have been written by him, but it has been imposed upon him and written and told him to read the well-known complex of interlocutory, which is the real owner of the New Democracy, or to say it in the language he will certainly understand, in the language of offshore, he is the Beneficial owner of the New Democracy. And he made this speech, which, as we have all seen, was a lukewarm-to-frozen acceptance of the New Democracy Members themselves. Honestly, Mr Mitsotakis, is it not surprising why your Members applauded you so much during your speech and so low and not lively at the end of it? It's the same reason that when you go out to a TV station, the viewing falls. It's the same reason. Unfortunately, you proved with yesterday's speech - which is really historic to Chief of Staff of Staff - that your political displacement is from inadequate to zero. The Greek people are aware of this and will contact you very soon in the elections that are coming. And that's for sure the MPs and the executives of your resignation know. At the moment, they seem to be supporting you, but they will immediately initiate your replacement procedure on the night of May 26th. So let us see the motion of censure you have tabled against me. For the first time in the parliamentary history of the place, a motion of censure against a minister was tabled, not for any act or omission of it in the performance of his duties, but for the sole reason - pretext - also - that he uses allegedly inappropriate expressions, that his style is inappropriate and that he has an aggressive and divisive look on social media. I would remind you that this Parliament has passed ministers who stole and looted the public, destroyed the funds' reserves, bankrupt the country, destroyed an entire generation of Greeks, smuggled the future of young people, deprived them of their work and sent them out of the public, and they continue to be played with respect, demanding the people's vote again, hosted in all the media and traveling to social living rooms and charitable gala. No motion of censure has ever been made to them. And it's been my first time because I'm - Mr. Mitsotakis - graphics, I'm insulting journalists and political opponents, I'm attacking cynicism on people with disabilities. I am, says Mr. Mitsotakis. It's me! - fascist - on the day of the anti-fascist victory of the people says that - and ultimately dangerous to democracy itself. Yes, I am handwriting, because I dare say publicly what everyone knows and whispers, but they do not dare to call them either because they are afraid or because they are afraid of, or so that they do not harm the established interests of a small oligarchy that has been ruling this place undisturbed for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u290	It's about you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Fotella, I've been informed that you will try to set up some provocations. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'll let you know I'm not gonna bite, I got steel nerves and huge temper. Yes, there are some of your colleagues who love me and who have transferred to me that you will try to set up a story. I am indeed insulting and aggressive, because I am not sacrificing the truth for the sake of hypocritical elegance and self-determination, whose defenders have exercised extreme violence - I repeat extreme violence! - against citizens, depriving them of their jobs and pensions, stealing their hopes, their present and future, but always talking to pluralist nobility. I'm really cynical because I studied orphans from a father, staying at the painter's student hall. I entered Athens School of Medicine here and have sacrificed my life to save thousands of people, operating or resting in intensive care units, public hospitals and the private sector in which I worked. I am indeed a fascist because I have not done one single lawsuit or lawsuit to any of them, politicians and journalists, who have taken me into the most vulgar - from dog to bear! - Phrases. Of course, I'm always flattered. Instead, my first "fascist" interventions as Deputy Minister for Health at the Ministry of Health along with the other political leadership, Andreas Xanthos, were the abolition of the 5 euro ticket to enter hospitals - as if the hospitals were bars and we had put them in - and above all the lawmaking of full health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups, with the result that two and a half million people who had lost their insurance because of the crisis now have the right to free access. Which one was fascism? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course I am dangerous to your own democracy - the one you have had years and the one you want to bring back - not to the democracy of the people's needs. Because I - you know - get mortgage loans in my home, not "air" like your friends. I pay them properly, and I do not owe anyone who speaks Greek, as your party currently owes 270 million, or as Mr Mitsotakis himself did with his loan "KERYKA HANNIA". Because I have not received any calls or other gifts from the 'SIEMENS'. I've never been a friend with Christophorus or had a middle-aged house with him or let him go because he's late for the warrant! Because neither I nor my wife - nor I - nor my wife! - we have offshore companies, nor have we ever been financed by unknown offshore, rather of a shipowner - its fronts seem - which, incidentally, financed the flagship of the gruesome attack along with the "MAKELEIO" of Chios, the "PRODUCTION" towards the government. They were funding them. They donated them. Because I prefer to work with engineers - TEI engineers, who, to live at the time of the crisis, opened a motorcycle workshop, not a vulcanizer, as some of you have underestimated. Because they are worthy people, because they have knowledge, because they have set back to set up the health system in the Aegean, so we put him in Santorini. I work with them, and I will continue to work together, when they are worthy and honest, and not with some college graduates, who, by taking advantage of their money and their diplomatic immunity, continued to treat minor children. Yeah, well, my partners are motorcycle crew owners, not the ones that attracted minors. Because I've done everything I've done in my life so far is due to honest, persistent, painful effort, to my family's full support and not to the fact that I was my dad's son. Because I, who ideologically I am a supporter of the state, have worked in the private sector on hard competition by proving my value every day and have not been appointed as you are, Mr Mitsotakis, the fans of the free economy directly by intervention of Simitis in Karajas at the National Bank, I have just returned from studies in America, namely the state, which you are constantly accusing. Indeed, you're talking about the way, because you don't know about it. I know about the trouble, though. And indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, yes, it separates us from us abyss both morally and politically. You represent the group of few, oligarchy, the jackals that sat on the neck of the Greek people after the war, those who want to live at the expense of others, the mediocres that clothe the chlain of excellence, the purchased excellence, those who engrave the mighty for a rhyphet, some politicians, those who scare their adversaries and those who worship their bosses. This is the Greece you express. We are expressing the social democratic majority, which is honestly and with dignity, that makes its bread, which has not piled strong, which, where it has arrived, has come with its trouble, its sweat and its value, who loves its fellow citizens, who loves its fellow citizens, who want a Greece to turn our children back, a Greece of social justice, equality and solidarity. Yeah, we're two worlds, and people have to choose where they want to go and where they want to come back. That's why you're bothering me and bothering all of SYRIZA. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And it's not just you and your monitoring of KINAL, but all systemic media, which were one side of the triangle of interlocutory, the fragmentation of public money with which you have ruled for the past 40 years. The other two were the political parties and the banks controlled by them. So, all of these three together, the old political parties, the bankers and the financial powerful, and the media, you invested in the left-hand account. You have come to speak of occasional residents of the executive, showing your deep conviction that "this country belongs to us, that you have come and taken us". So then you served in a rabies and shameful propaganda in and out of the country, that SYRIZA will destroy Greece. You have reached the point of indulgence and political amoralism, on the one hand, to beg creditors not to retreat to what the Greek Government is asking for, to the demands he made when he took the targets, on the other hand, to whistle and blame your European escorts, who have implemented the agreed ones. You have come into lasting despair and political despair. And you know why? Because following the successful completion of the third programme, in August 2018, the significant debt relief measures we have achieved, the repeated exit of the country to the markets, the bonds are at the lowest levels of the 15th century, even since the time of the fat cows, the upgrading and development of the economy that we accepted and confirmed and signed up by all the institutions abroad and all the organisations, even those who fought us, after the important relief measures we took and legislated, after the announcements of Alexis Tsipras in the PPC of September 2018, following the measures announced earlier, opens up another corridor in Greek society and the world sees it and feels it and will feel it more in its pocket. So, what's left of you? Nothing but fear, fear and panic. Fear and awareness that the present government has cut the umbilical cord of parties and the media, depriving them of the thick of the black money that has been moving in the past decades. Yeah, we, I quit the CDC thing. We broke that abscess. I know, they have lost 70m euros friendlyly to you, who are currently launching horrors against us every day. And that's all from the CDC, so I don't want to put on the advertising expenses of the hospitals. That's why I'm being fought, I know. Except we've had transplants, we've made artificial members for the disabled, and I'm gonna say some things down there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u292	A word about Kyburopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u293	I've got a lot of talk. Fear and awareness together that this government and this Prime Minister will never retreat even in the moment from our declared intention to successfully complete the fight against interoperable and corruption. We do not deal nor haggle with Himalayan cats. That's why they're fighting us. Fear from the realization that this government defends and safeguards the rule of law and those who are illegal, yes, will go to jail. We don't put them on, justice puts them, whoever they are, no matter how high they are. Fear from being aware that we are determined at every price to change what is required in the next four years, so that the country really has a fair growth for everyone, not that parasitic, post-practical, state-owned capitalism of the “mothers” and interlocutory, which brought us to the edge of destruction and threw us into the well of bankruptcy. Finally, fear from the realization that we are not like the previous ones, who because of their multiple dependence on the financially powerful have always shown the due willingness to their guts, but that instead, we have proved it, which is why we have endured four and a half years, we have steel patience, steel nerves, a strong stomach and a clean target in order to withstand the war. They cannot indulge in this government, nor scandals, nor remulsions, nor mismanagement. Fifteen generations have searched us all right and left, and what did you find? A Petsite found today in the statement to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency said 'We found nothing'. So all these media that you have controlled and financed earlier in good cooperation with New Democracy and its monitoring of KINAAL are trying with methodical and absolute coordination the communication disorientation of society by twisting the truth, completely obscuring the work of SYRIZA, but also the scandals of previous governments by dispersing and disseminating false news everywhere, as you did yesterday. So every time something positive happens for the country or citizens, the known means are fully coordinated, as if the conductor himself coordinates them, launching a communist bombardment with the invention and mass reproduction of inexistent issues of supposed moral order for the government. If you'd found something immoral, you'd be skinning us in the handkerchiefs. You haven't found and made. As you made yesterday that disgraceful thing with the Prime Minister's father, to whom he replied. When the curtain sits, you play again and a little Polakis, because it bothers you my style, we said some things before, and all of this creates a first-class communication account to hide your own political account that is not defendable because it is deeply neoliberal and you cannot defend it. Do you realize how you've been oppositioning lately? You don't say what you're going to do, but it reproduces take news that you see at the "CORREW", "MAKELEIO" on the in.gr and right and left against the members of the government. A characteristic example of aggregation is the case of criminal prosecution for the "EHEALTH" Conference against the woman of the archipetazite, Ms Stournara, who all systemic media smashed, hid through the communication tooling of Mr Kymbouropoulos's case. So let's go to Mr. Kymbouropoulos. With regard to the issue of the so-called lack of respect for Mr Kyburopoulos and, in general, to people with disabilities, which were caused by my political response to his previous political comment, I am again clear to you and to the entire Greek people who are listening to me: because of my work, because I have operated with disabilities, I have hospitalized people with disabilities in the intensive care facility, I know very well that people born with an illness or an inherited disability or have acquired it during their lifetime by accident have my full respect. I know very well from the first hand that you don't know about their struggle. I know very well that they try every day for things that are self-evident for others. But for them, it is an effort, and when they succeed, they must be twice and three times proud, and they and their families and all of us who are next to them. And we have to be with them, not with pity, but with respect, because they deserve it and they deserve it. The practice and full respect I have shown as a doctor trying to offer the best daily, the same thing I have done from the position of Deputy Minister. We have done this with what we have legislated for people with disabilities, with the new EMCDDA, which has legislated zero participation in the paraplegic tests for patients with specific illnesses with more than 80% and who have increased these conditions. By presenting in all positions an additional moleculation for MEAS. By maintaining its allowance, the disabled nominated for training or employment of indefinite duration, should not lose his allowance for whoever finds a job, while having mental health and mental deprivation problems. That's what we legislated for. Excludes the invalidity allowance from his income. The disabled child should be paid to all benefits granted by the State to children and families. That's the job of the Ministry of Labour. We also amplify the special treatment with thousands of teachers hired. We voted for four and a half thousand posts as soon as we got out of the memos. We have maintained and added diseases and specialties that deserve to be occupied after the end of their studies, which we have extended with amendments of 2016 and 2019. Proof of my respect for Mr Kymbouropoulos is that I treated him as an equal political interlocutor, contrary to the officials of the New Democracy and the systemic media, who, in order to work politically and communicate with your candidate MEP and his health problem, reached the point, which demonstrates their provocative racist perception of MEDIs, to implicitly propose the pity by presenting him as disadvantaged, as a helpless person who has received the unjust attack from the vice, me. Mrs Vozeberg's statement is characteristic: 'Let Mr. Paulakis attack a man who stands at the same height as him'. To understand Mrs Vozeberg and to inform her that Mr Kymbouropoulos is at the same height as all of us, and that is why I have expressed my political disagreement with his comment. To disagree with his ideological perceptions does not reduce my respect for him and all the disabled. But because I treated them equally, that's why I answered them. I am not the one who has shown disrespect to Mr Kymbouropoulos, who is my colleague, but your officers, Officers, Vice-Presidents, his colleagues, who have been thirsty for a few days before presenting the New Democracy Eurobarometer, were pushing him and snatching him to take a better place next to Mr Mitsotakis for the commemorative photo. They are the same that, with their policies in previous years, they pushed all disabled or disabled people more deeply into the Social Care. They are the same that with Law 4115/2013 they attempted to abolish special education schools and to deprive children of this right. They are the ones who scorned the EEA budget for the artificial members and for ortho-children, such as the order for ortho-children, for the headphones, which we are slowly raising in this year's budget now that we have come out of the memoranda and give 40% more than we have given last year. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] My answer to Mr Kymbouropoulos' statement that 'I have never wanted molecules, allowances, etc., equal opportunities, I claim what is not there' was purely political and not personal. By distorting Mr Mitsotakis, he said yesterday that what Mr Kymporopoulos said was that he will not claim allowances and favors. He didn't say that. In any case, I think that Mr Kymbouropoulos' statement was firstly unsatisfactory, because equal opportunities and mobilisation or grant of allowances are not contrary to that concept. There is no dilemma that artificially set either molecules and allowances or equal opportunities. On the other hand, equal opportunities presupposes mobilisation and allowances for disabled persons. When you have some physical weakness, you don't start with the same starting point as the others. It is necessary and a state's debt if it wants to be called and indeed fair to offer these people the extra help they need just to have equal opportunities with others. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This is precisely the aim of providing molecules and allowances for disabled people, of creating the conditions for having the same or even a similar starting point for everyone. But, above all, his statement is not only unsuccessful, but it is clear - although covert - that he had a political content and an ideological sign. It is no coincidence that it was precisely after Mr Mitsotakis' statement to Cyprus that the Christmas gift should be abolished and the statement by the President of EMU that the unemployment benefit is counterproductive because it prevents young people from seeking work. All these statements, unfortunately, and Mr Kymbouropoulos' statement, are in line with the New Democracy agenda, which consists in the full implementation of Chicago's neoliberal policy, market deregulation with the abolition of labour rights, market privatisation in all areas, a drastic reduction in state expenditure not excluding health funds, for vulnerable social groups. In fact, the hidden, but clear, meaning of these statements was as follows: the allowances and any other aid to vulnerable social groups offer nothing and are not only useless, but also harmful, and that is why they must be abolished. People with disabilities who respect themselves and who have distinguished themselves, such as the candidate, renounce the policy of benefits and mobility and seek equal opportunities. This is what New Democracy officials wanted to communicate with these statements was a abolition of the welfare state and a replacement from the free market with equal opportunities. False copy. This model you want to bring back, the current leadership of the New Democracy and your companions, a system that will benefit only those who have happened to benefit from their birth and the social and economic situation of the ancestors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u294	Minister, if you're kind, you should be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u295	I shall be brief, Mr President. In this extreme neoliberal position of New Democracy, SYRIZA opposes its position for further strengthening and deepening social justice. Listen, please, carefully what I'm going to read now. I copy from an article of a modern political intellectual. "We have as the starting point the mental experiment of primary status, namely what would we view as a fair situation among people and what decisions would we take for society if we were fully ignorant of gender, race, age, mind, health, skills, education and our religion? Starting from the above position - the intellectual continues - "...the only objective for establishing justice in human society, we inevitably conclude that basing on the distribution of the shares of social wealth only in random circumstances, such as origin, social and economic positions, natural advantages are arbitrary in moral terms. That is why those who have been favoured can only benefit from good luck under conditions that improve the situation of those who have been wronged. They will gain because they are more gifted or more favoured than the circumstances, but they should be of assistance to the cost of training, education and health of the less fortunate. He is..." - he says - 'The redistributive role of the social state' in which, obviously, they include privileges, benefits and molecules to the weak, what you want to abolish. Who says that? These are not said by a left minister aggressive to the disabled, by Paulakis or by any other left minister. Charles Marx doesn't say it. Mr. John Rolls, top political philosopher of the United States, professor at Harvard and Oxford. Has Mr. Mitsotakis, who was at Harvard, heard anything about John Rolls, or does he only know everything about Milton Friedman and the other Chicago School children? This is a serious question. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He knows or ignores the fact that even the American universities adopt and implement the policy of positive discrimination, making it easier to introduce criteria for minority candidates on the grounds that the grades and results of the examinations cannot be the only criterion for admission to higher education institutions, given their role and their mission to strengthen racial and ethnic diversity, i.e. social justice. Examples are Texas, Michigan's law school, California's medical school, and finally, Harvard itself. In this light I criticised Mr Kymbouropoulos for his comment, as I firmly believe that the policy of positive discrimination through mobilisation, allowances, etc. to vulnerable social groups is a prerequisite for the formation of equal opportunities among citizens. Many people have asked me and have told me that we should apologise to Mr Kymburopoulos. We apologise to her, ladies and gentlemen, with what we have done in the field of health for all the weak and the vulnerable social groups. I said the first two. I can talk half an hour. I won't talk. I'll speak in a way. So we apologise to our actions for four years, which we again set up a society on its feet and which we again set up a dissolved health system, which you delivered to us and which you had consciously dissolved in order to develop the private sector. We increased the spending limit in public hospitals from 1,480,000 euros to 1,860,000 euros. We increased the funding of public hospitals by EEAY from 80,000,000 euros in 2014 to 670,000,000 euros in 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u296	To close, Mr. Polakis, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u297	I'm hanging up. We received a broken primary from which you had thrown two and a half thousand people away. One who spoke here earlier, who was greeting Patakos - to talk about extreme right - fired them in a week and we have opened a hundred and twenty-five local units so far. We have deleted debts of uninsured citizens of EUR 28 000 000 from tax and EUR 150,000 000 from hospitals not sending to tax. We obtain nineteen state-of-the-art CT scanners in various hospitals in the country with a competition that has never been held and where it started with 16,000 euros, we will give 8,600,000 euros. We sent out contractors from hospitals and made 25% to 30% savings, giving more than 200-300 euros to the pocket of people who worked in a gallery. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we won it in the European Court of Justice too. We've made it at seventy-seven-seven hospitals so far. We'll make it to the hundred and thirty that's blocked us with court decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u299	Let me close it. We increased by 30% the ITH beds of the public health system that were working. Five hundred seventy-four are today from four hundred thirty-eight who delivered them to us. We made use of the public property and reduced the cost of rent by 8,000 euros. We inaugurated the Santorini Hospital you wanted to do it SPA. We inaugurate the Hospital of Lefkada on Sunday, finish the Hospital of Karpathos, finish the Hospital of Chalkida. It would be a good thing here to build the road that connects Chalkida to the hospital, so that we do not have delays in the opening. By political decision of the government, we gave EUR 190,000,000 retrospectively to hospital doctors, recognizing their role. I mean, a lot more, but I've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u300	But let's close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u301	I'm hanging up. I'll close up with a word, because I can't answer that. I read what Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech Monday when he tabled the motion of censure for me: "Mrs. and colleagues of SYRIZA, I've been going to Sfakia since I was young, I have many friends. Who told you that the Sfakians, the Chania, the critics are like Paul? And what does the Cretan Lefkada have to do with a enthusiastic political trumpet?" First, the bullies to look for them in his best man's company. Secondly, he may have gone to Sfakia for sure, but to understand the psyche of these people there - and what I carry inside of me - you must have seen the sunset between Gadus and Sfakia. You must have walked to Madara, been sitting in a mitte with shepherds, eat yoghurt when it comes out of the pot, go to sheep's weights and listen to the risotto and come to you ancient memories and sounds circulating in your blood, you must have chased furry on a side and heard the pearl bellowing. Then you can understand what humanity means, what leaps mean, what friendly, what dignity this world is carrying in his DNA and his behavior. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what I carry. That's why I get it, that's why I feel it, and that's why I live that way. And when you've lived through this, you can understand the meaning of the two ladys I'm going to close, which is something that Mr. Mitsotakis can't understand. "Always the crown stands, if it is snowed, the rock is beaten by the sea, but always a rock remains." "All times beat me, but my clones do not break, because I have roots deep and they keep me." That's why we'll win you again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u303	I would like to thank my fellow Members, in particular, for the tolerance and understanding of the Bureau, for giving more time to the Minister, because you understand that his name has been mentioned too many times these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u304	That's not tolerant. She's kind. Thirty-five minutes of twelve! These things can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Dendias has the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, I have two minutes to comment on the speech of the Deputy Minister of Health. I'm not gonna run out of two minutes, I don't have to. I would like to say, Mr President, that I think he has made an honest effort within the framework of his own capabilities, his own opportunities, the Deputy Minister for Health, to withdraw the insult to the candidate Member of the New Democracy, Mr Kymbouropoulos and to the disabled. It would certainly be preferable, straightforward and more male - because it is a word that is often brought to his vocabulary - to express a straight and clear apologies to the people who he has offended. He couldn't reach this point. Nor was he able to avoid the references to the nominated President of the New Democracy, who has been barbarically offended these days, both in terms of and personnel and in terms of his family and living and indignant. And we all know in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, that his wife has also been persecuted out of the world in every way, all the years of the country's governance by SYRIZA. Mr President, I would like to say that the New Democracy is perpendicular to the aim of turning the political life of the place into an enormous mud of insults and accusations. I would like to say that the Deputy Minister for Health is too many times moving along precisely these instruments. And I sincerely hope that he will return first, the Prime Minister of the country, who covers him by turning the motion of distrust into a proposal of confidence and the government as a whole, into institutional decency and seriousness towards a society that has been injured in the past three years by this kind of behaviour, but also nine years from an unprecedented crisis, cannot withstand the institutional reason for dissent, cannot withstand the division, cannot withstand the dissatisfaction, it cannot withstand the reason that the government is going through and to which he is trying to put counter-population, but counter-population will not fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. I wanted to inform Mr Panagiotaro that on my list, Mrs Bakoyannis precedes me for a speech. Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u308	I shall try, Mr President, to tell you in seven minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Deputy Minister for Health and I must say that I was disappointed once again because I had some different hopes from his word. I do not know why, I believe that even at the last moment, the Minister will stand up to the circumstances and address this House and all of you who are forced today by your vote to cover all his behaviour in a different way and indeed, as has been said, he would have the courage to apologize. Mr. Paulakis didn't do it. And I want to focus on the great and fundamental difference, the value of which we have, ladies and gentlemen, with Mr Polakis. Mr. Paulakis spoke of your own democracy and our own democracy. That, ladies and gentlemen, is fascist logic. Democracy is one. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We all have a place in this democracy. You, too, have a majority today and possibly a minority tomorrow, and we too are a parliamentary minority and probably a majority tomorrow. That means fascism, ladies and gentlemen. And that is what you would do if you understood it in the House today. That was said and said without a word. It is not an easy decision to reach an officer's party to make a motion of censure against a minister, and it is not an easy decision - and the Minister has rightly said so. It's not a common deed. But it is the behaviour of this particular minister, which highlights all the bad aspects of politics. It is the behavior that began with pride that "I have double books". I, too, was mayor, ladies and gentlemen. I could never keep double books. And when a man takes pride in keeping twice as many books, a pit has a pit. Because another mayor throughout Greece has not done so. He's the man who when the reporter comes out to criticize him, he tells him he'll shove him three meters below the earth. But in a democracy, ladies and gentlemen, journalists can criticise what they want and the role of the minister or politician is to answer whether he likes or does not like the question! I'm not going into Mr. Polakis' other feats. I'll just stay in the last one. He tried to make a relapse today. It's unfortunate, Mr. Polakis, your relapse! Because what Mr Paulakis said to Mr Kymbouropoulos was not what he told us today. What the Deputy Minister of Health said to him was why Mr Kymbouropoulos made use of a law, which Mr Paulakis did not vote for, which was before Mr Paulakis - who gave him the right to enter and become a doctor. It is what we call 'positive discrimination'. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, we believe in positive discrimination. We believe that positive discrimination is essential to people who have the form of disability, because this enables them to be equal in society and join. So what Mr Paulakis did was really deeply dishonest and undemocratic. Because he sprayed him because he made use of this positive distinction. And Mr. Paulakis knows very well that the law would not allow, if he did not make use of this distinction, for Mr. Kyburopoulos to work today. And because you turned it around and I heard Mrs. Fotio proudly tell us that the first time people were found dealing with disabled people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u309	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u310	Mrs Fotiou, long before you disabled people who were inside it have been involved. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am not giving the right to any Minister and to any of you to tell me that you are more sensitive to people with disabilities than I am, who have spent my whole life with a mother who has fought for these people, to be made public, to have allowances, to have equal opportunities. This has led us to make the motion of censure against Mr Polakis, because there are limits to fascist logic. This, ladies and gentlemen, is fascism and you will do well to understand. Because when you get used to it, when the poison is slowly falling and you get miserable, when it does not matter if Paulis swears, when it does not matter whether something else happens, when it does not matter whether positive discrimination is judged and offended by the Minister himself, then things are very difficult, because then we are slowly forgetting what the basic principles of democracy are. That is why we have made this motion of censure for our worthy code. But you turned it, turned it into a vote of confidence so that you could say the rest. I have heard today about the third pension. Has anyone told you, ladies and gentlemen, that a budget has not been opened to see that the 15th pension costs EUR 2.2 billion? How do you get out and lie to the Greek people? What do you call it? And you're all saying it with a single voice. You're talking about a thirteenth pension. Say clearly that we are giving an election allowance, because we want to make a lasting effort to win something from our curse. Say it clean, but not tenth-third pension! You cannot come to the House and hear colleagues from yesterday celebrate why we brought, he says, the focus tax to 13%. Hey, that's where you got him, ladies and gentlemen. For five years you have killed him, tax everyone and come now and make him a "gull" of the tax, because you exclude coffee and refreshments. So you're pulling the coffee out of the café, instead of doing it as he had a New Democracy, all of it. We've brought food back to the low tax rate. But who uploaded the VAT? You carried him five years after you found him, ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, the housewife's basket has been kneeled. What are you celebrating exactly? Tell me, please. You have turned the motion of censure into a vote of confidence to the government. But I will tell you something, ladies and gentlemen. The reality is that a few of you have been excited by Mr Polakis today. A lot of people felt bad and you know it, and we know it. The Prime Minister has blackmailed you all to join the line and vote 'yes' as appropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u311	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u312	He did it to you. Don't be confused. I'm sure you're excited about it. You're in a few, especially you. But there are many people who have another worthy code in here, and let them belong to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u313	Don't make a fuss, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u314	One thing you cannot avoid, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister yesterday gave us the biggest gift. From the Step of the House he said that the elections on May 26 are a vote of confidence in his government. And the people's confidence on May 26th won't take it, and then we wait here to see the follow-up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u315	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u317	No, don't open a dialogue. We'll never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u318	For a while, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u319	No, Minister, if you have goodness, don't open a dialogue, because I think you've had enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u320	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u321	And I gave you that you're a fugitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u322	Mrs. Bakoyannis, I'm waiting for you in Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u323	I go more often than you to Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u324	Begin, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u325	Wait a minute, finish the stigmory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u326	Okay, not like that. To blackmail the situation a little bit. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Shadow theatre today and yesterday, the Greek Parliament, a malicious second-stage theatrical performance within the temple of democracy, a performance reminiscent of Karrakiozis with Karrakiozis, Hatziavatis, Niones, Jews and other fascinating figures that can be distinguished for nothing. There's a title for this show. It could be "Karakiozis the scaffolder" or "Karakiozis the puratos" or "Karakiozis the helicopteratos", according to the intercategories of each other, without of course facing and answering the charges of the other. You unbuilt without a trace of shame, but "for the tampering" you say no word. As we speak of 'tampaikers', let us talk a little bit about the district of Attica, where I happen to be a candidate for the "Greek Dawn for Attica". You will tell me: 'But good, why are you talking here today?' Because you've just fallen wire and you've eaten us from everywhere, from debate, from channels, from stations, from polls, from anywhere. If we have that possibility, I'll see you here a little bit. Moreover, the Region of Attica is a micrograph of the general political scene and as a candidate for the combination of "Greek Dawn for Attica", I would like to denounce the following: the desperate attempt to falsify 11.3% of the voters in the Attica region who honoured and honoured the combination in the previous elections, by not showing us any debate. Of course, it seems that this has the good news, because the information we have is that when the other candidates are debate, with what they are saying, they are bringing the candidates inexpensively and without effort to us. We denounce that you do not show us more generally with all the media and activities of the "Greek Dawn" anywhere, that we are not played by any television or radio, with few exceptions. We denounce and laugh at the "false polls", i.e. polls - monkeys, the various professionals "false" who say pollsters, who, as in the previous 2014 election, did not put us at all in polls and Fridays before the elections, took a poll and gave the "Greek Dawn for Attica" 4%. Forty-eight hours later, we got 11.5% and they shut up. Now they apply the same tactic, knowing they're gonna get the same. The same will of course happen in the Municipality of Athens, which will be huge, because everything shows that the "Greek Dawn for Athens" will be in the second round and will continue this with a very nice turbulence from the percentages that the Golden Dawn will get in the European elections, no matter how much you try to smash us, smash us, smuggle us or anything else. We also denounce all those who are literally blackmailing - not all those who want to give us rooms and spaces to make speeches - either in municipalities or in private places for payment - as in the case of a private place where there was an agreement with the owner and after they saw that they could not blackmail him, the big media entered. The Undersecretary of Finance Mr. Papanatsiou came in and said indirectly: "Brother, if you give them the space, the next day I will send you all the services of the Ministry of Finance and they will dismantle you." The man of course backed up. It's logical that you want us to disappear, but in vain. You have been trying for many years now with 'golden's', with various other stories, but the mud and all this effort falls into the wall. As for the three candidates representing SYRIZA, New Democracy and KINAL with a few Karamanlis, Ms. Dourou, Mr. Patoulis and Mr. Skouros, they are tested but not successful. I begin with Mrs Durou, whose political career on the substance of May 26 is over. With more than a hundred dead, drowned on land and burned at sea, he is not entitled to speak. Not even an apology for what happened when it was - and remains for a few more days - Attica Regional Administrator. It is not entitled to speak not only of its barbaric statements six days before the tragedy in Mandra, where it said that "we are ready from an anti-military point of view" and a week after tens of people were drowned and the entire region was destroyed. Even now the Mandra region is a dead city on the substance. However, it is not entitled to speak of its assurances of the completeness of the anti-nuclear design and the "appropriateness" of the civil protection of the incompetent, dangerous, worthless, responsible, of Mr Kapaki who is going down and for a candidate in Andros - to rejoice there in Andros - as well as Mrs Tsopras. Mr. Capakis was missing. He showed up a few days after the disaster in Matty. Mrs. Tsucra was trying to convince that she's not the one responsible, that they're some of the others in the firehouse. One of them was throwing it at each other. They're familiar with this. You're out of your mind and you can't do anything about it. Of course, all these assurances were burned in Matty and the Red Port. We have seen the total incompetence and failure of Mrs Douru in the management of waste. In 2014 he won the elections by copying the Golden Dawn programme almost literally in many cases, talking about waste management, recycling at the source and other very charming, denouncing all four "Franean" works by Mr Sguros. He didn't do anything. It has been five years and the situation is tragic, the garbage and the waste in the Race are over, recycling is less than 10% of all waste and it turns out that the Left actually collects garbage otherwise. Actually, he's not collecting them at all lately with tragic actions and spasmous moves trying to correct the incorruptibles. It's the mockery between HYTAS and HYTY. He's making fun of the people in the grammar and elsewhere. He says: "It's not HYTAT, it's HYTY." But the landfill site, when no sorting is made and from 100% of the waste 90% goes to a landfill site, is not HYYY. It's a HYTAD with a different name. As for the opaqueness to her work, she will sometime also be controlled. The famous market in the building of Synglidis, the former OPAP building from the region was stuck because justice was involved after legal proceedings and complaints made by officials of the Golden Dawn and the Greek Dawn. It'll all look and it'll all come out in the forum. They're indicted and accountable, and that's why. I'm saying that so we know. I mention the hiking bridges, which it builds at a cost of at least three times the last "double" hiking bridge built at the Cross of Agia Paraskevi. I mention the renewal of the Faliric Ormos, the greatest mockery in the face of the citizens of Attica, who took the assent of some, promising that the existing Poseidon Avenue, which was already three to four meters higher than the old Poseidon, will be subjugated. Eventually, what do new works show? That the new Poseidon is at least eight to ten meters higher than the oldest level. In short, the people in Kallithea and Moschato will not be able to see the sea unless they live in a penthouse and there in relative difficulty. We could talk about the Durus for many hours and its things, but it's over, so there's no need. The other candidate, Mr Skouros, last time went down as independent. It has now taken the anointing of KINAL, PASOK, in a few words, but it also takes the rebels of the New Democracy, various caramanlis who "tick" with the official line of the family. We would like to know why he lost 2014, since he was a successful self-government leader and what he would otherwise do in relation to 2014. It was lost because of the 'Françans' works it had signed, which were against the regulation of the European Union and when the four 'Françans' waste incineration plants were finished, we should also pay a huge sum as a fine. Remember various costs thus, for example, as it had given around EUR one and a half million to build a regional site. One and a half million euros, when the officers in the Armed Forces make their respective and better sites with just five to ten thousand euros. He hadn't done any anti-military, and that appeared in the process two years later. Generally speaking, it was an indifferent administration that just passed the days, the months and nothing on the substance. Now what does it intend to change? In reading Mr Skourou's programme, we see nothing substantial. Let's go to Mr. Patulis, who goes down with the anointing of the New Democracy. First of all, Mr Patulis did not want to go down to the periphery. He ran two years ago that he would come down to the Municipality of Athenians. He had already started his tours and visits to the Municipality of Athens, until the family decided that he wanted the young Bakoyannis to descend for the mayor of Athens. He didn't discuss it with anyone, just like that. "Chinice" a little at first, Mr. Patoulis realized, but then he realized that there is nothing he can do, he can do with the family and he was compatible with the Attica Region. We read, for example, two - three things from the program that it presented the day before yesterday in a central hall in a hotel in Athens. He says a lot about waste management. I guess it's like strings that he's saying what he's talking about. We ask ourselves: Twelve years as Mayor of Amaroussi how he has recycled only a percentage of 10% of the waste, which on his command was about five hundred thousand tonnes in the saturated Tribe? His programme shows that he has made it - as we have said - by obligation, by strands, because it is a burning issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to ask for a little tolerance in order to speak about everything that has happened. And all of a sudden, he remembered to put the cherry on the cake - and brown cans. Something's going on in gypsy. When in other European countries there are ten and twelve cans, Mr Patulis says - because that is how someone told him - that we would put some coffee cans. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On civil protection, and there it has a terrible programme - it says - and will save Attica from floods, disasters, fires, etc. But when there was a flood a few months ago in Maroussi, in a blocked stream, - you had all seen it, a lake was created next to the old HBI factory - dozens of cars were floating and finally all that happened, since at some point the water left there was to throw the responsibilities on Ms. Douros and Ms. Douros to Mr. Patolis. Of course, this attitude shows that both had absolutely nothing to do with civil protection and flooding. As for the economics of the Municipality of Amarousi, despite the rich sponsorships of companies located in the region, the Municipality of Amarousi owes tens of millions of euros and has made a scandalous arrangement, which will not pay a hundred twenty instalments, as they please and wish for our fellow citizens to be subjected, but will pay back to sixty-six years - to understand what is happening! On the issue of the security of citizens, which is the number one problem that concerns Greek citizens right now - not just in Attica, but throughout Greece, and which concerns all three of my candidates - what have you done in Attica? Nothing at all! What do you suggest? Nothing at all! And you know why? Because you're afraid they're telling you fascists and xenophobics. Because if you don't break eggs, Omelette you don't! Let us also talk quickly about the issues of people with disabilities and the proposals of the candidates, because of the issue that we have heard before, who is closer and closer to people with disabilities. First of all, you dare tell us nothing, in the combination of the Greek Dawn for Attica, there are three of my fellow candidates, people with disabilities, who are pioneers in the fight for the rights of these people. If you take a walk to Athens and Attica, starting with the regional council meetings, you will see that a disabled person will not be able to go to Stepma to talk. He doesn't have the ability, he doesn't have access. The ramp that exists at the Ministry of Transport, where the meetings are held, is not in line with the standards for people with disabilities. If a stroller goes down, he'll eat a button and break their faces to understand what it means. As far as entrepreneurship is concerned, we are hearing Mrs Durou and others talk about it, we are laughing at it. Mrs. Durou, the only entrepreneurship she had ever been a regional manager, as far as we know, was that she had nursed in some agencies and in some companies - and I don't know what exactly - next to our friend Akis. Mr. Shroud was a life factor. As for Mr. Patolis, as far as we know, he declares a doctor. He's a doctor because he studied a physiotherapist in Romania. On course in some way he also obtained the doctor's degree in Greece. Good for him, honor and satisfaction, but from what they say he had never practiced the medical profession. We'd really like to see the badges on the streets, the badges on the OAU, where it shows if anyone owns anything about entrepreneurship, see what's going on. Nothing at all! In conclusion, I would like to mention a few things from our positions on the Attica Region, which are the positions of the Golden Dawn on a pan-Hellenic level and are similar - around Greece as a whole. First of all, the security of our citizens is the first concern and we will give regions and municipalities all our energy, effort, to help our fellow citizens who are affected every day and who are now afraid in their homes, not just outside of them. We have specific positions on waste, with too many details, on how the 'no waste zone' should be left without a single residue, in order to fall into a landfill area, as is the case in the advanced countries abroad. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the infrastructure of this city and of the whole country should be friendly for all people: for people with disabilities, for elderly women who go to the supermarket cart and cannot go anywhere, for mothers with babies who make slaloms between sidewalks, streets, cars, motorcycles, stakes, chairs or anything else. This region of Attica should finally emerge culturally rather than as did Mrs Douros, who gave hundreds of thousands of euros for energy upgrading - it says - of the 'House of the Racer', a home with a couple of twenty-six elderly fighters in the JRC, for whom the citizens of Attica paid more than 100,000 euros. Then - I think - and here the President of Parliament has given a very good sum for this particular case. To eradicate bureaucracy, which accentuates everyone and the entrepreneurship of our country, something needs to be done. What has to be done is literally to copy how they have eliminated the bureaucracy of specific countries in the European Union and not just.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u328	Let's finish, Mr. Panayotar, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u329	Allow me two minutes. And you changed my time - not you personally - and others spoke here for over an hour, destroying the time. Give me three minutes, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u330	We have not made a special exception, except for Mr Polakis, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u331	It wasn't just Mr. Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u332	I already gave you four more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u333	As for the daily lives of citizens and of course sinful contracts, there, if a prosecutor entered the Region of Attica, would go for too many "brains". That is all we can do, if and since the citizens of Attica re-enter us with their vote, a vote which we consider to have been the best in favour of the citizens of Attica for five years in the Attica region. We hope to do the same again for the next five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u334	We proceed with Mrs Tasia Christododoulou, Member of the SYRIZA and III Vice-President of the Parliament, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, Parliament is an area of immunity. Everyone can say what they want, without any impact, because there is the well-known Treaty of tolerance. So we heard the previous speaker, the representative of the Golden Dawn, who said his interest in the disabled. The views of the Golden Dawn are still on the Internet for the disabled in 2012 and 2013. Recently we visited Auschwitz, where the Parliament opened the museum for the Greek Jewish political prisoners and Roma who were burned by the Nazis, and we also saw a whole section made up of artificially disabled persons who were arrested. Because Nazism does not tolerate disability, it is in favour of the 'final' human species. So today we hear Nazis pleading disabled, having three candidates, as announced, disabled. A lot of gambling is going on with the disabled. I don't understand what's going on. That is the first point. The second point, which I wanted to make, is that it looks like we're living in a post-modernist era now. In other words, as far as the world's originality is concerned, a motion of censure for a tweet is concerned. It's either a picture of the future or something happens here. Usually, the reproach against the Ministers of Ministers has to do with the misappropriation of their duties, with offences they commit in the performance of their duties, whether we are close or wide theory, whether it is on occasion or in the performance of their duties. But making a motion of censure about tweets made by a minister on a matter really goes beyond any imagination. Why did the Chief of Police do this? Why did he do it? Does he think that the Internet, which is a popular launch site and - as everyone says - acts interactively, can be transferred to the House, so that, interactively, we can all say what goes down? What exactly was it that he wanted with this motion of censure? It's really a wonder! Of course, I understand that this tweet or any similar tweet, if it were not an election period, would pass unnoticed. The most - far - being the subject of some bitter comment by a journalist. But now, because of the needs of the election period, everything is glamorous, everything is exploited in this "hero" struggle for the reconqueration of power. Here I would like to say that the spectacle, which Mr Mitsotakis' communication scientists so well work, is always marginal, because it is his feet clay, and why others know this sport, can make distractions and all this much-advertised instrument collapse. Because the spectacle, i.e. the image, is trying to mediate social relations and thus concentrates the viewer's look and consciousness, but this look is lost, as is consciousness lost. And we're talking about a false conscience. So all the logic of the spectacle society is exploited. Late Guy Debor, in other times, had prepared us how exactly this game is played. However, Mr Mitsotakis chose this specific tweet, because he thought that he would hit the moral advantage of the Left through it. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you have done a very difficult job. You know, historically, others have attempted to hurt and degrade the moral advantage of the Left without doing so. And you know why? Because the moral advantage is not where the politician goes when he gets sick, whether he goes to a public hospital or to a private clinic or abroad, nor if his child goes to a private school, nor to whom he's on vacation and how he's doing it. The moral advantage of the Left has been historically attributed to the Left because it is the political and ideological space that claims universality to human rights: equality, freedom, justice. That gives her the moral advantage. And you, who necessarily have the disadvantage of claiming and fighting for the few, cannot hit the moral advantage of the Left or degrade it, because the Left is a body of understanding historically all these years. You know, then, in the 19th century when Marx and Engels showed up, there were people who blamed Engels for being rich. And, of course, they blamed Marx, because he had a close relationship with him, and he obviously financed him to write those grand books he wrote. Does anyone remember who wrote these? What history has recorded is that these people founded the First International, that they published the Communist Manifesto and that they announced that "a ghost is deceiving over Europe, the ghost of communism". That's what stayed in history. These will remain in history and from this House for what a political project SYRIZA, which is the Left, and what a political plan New Democracy has. It was, in fact, tragicly unrealistic to use this thing in a moment - not only in the Prime Minister's earlier announcements, but in general - that SYRIZA, realizing how much people were affected by the Memorandums, how much they lost and especially their dignity, is trying to effectively restore a social protection indicator. Because, for us, the social state is the central issue for which we claim to govern and we claim to change the lives of all people. In this sense, I think you should finally be reconciled. Whether it was a skeptic of the juncture, whether it was a prefecture, that SYRIZA was found in the government in 2015 was not symptom. In 2015 he expressed the hopes and expectations of a people you plundered him. You literally plundered him. I see you're making some signals there. You admit at least? So today, four and a half years later, this same people see that what SYRIZA promised is being implemented with a plan designed to bring society and the economy together first and foremost. Because without society's recovery, no economy is recovering. This is a matter that has been played. In conclusion, I would like to say that SYRIZA is under attack in the last six months, for example, for the 'Prespes', which, unlike what is happening in Greece, the whole world is congratulating the SYRIZA Government, because there has finally been a development in the Balkans that had nothing to do with nationalism nor with fences or with war. It was a development of peace. And that is what you tried to use, because it is an election period, setting up protests with some people out of nowhere, in order to use it electorally. Because SYRIZA was able to finish the memorandum, the commitments he made at a difficult time and, at the same time, complete all the projects announced since August, the country was able to get out on the market, actually move on to reforms that help society. It is good, then, to realize this situation and not yet live with the dream of 'parenthood', because there is no five-year parentheses. Parentheses are usually short. So you have to reconcile yourself with reality and this is that SYRIZA is here to stay. And he didn't come to be alone, claiming, against the will of society, his stay in the government, but why the Greek people will want it, who knows how to judge, he knows to understand and he really knows, to compare politicians and politicians so that he knows what his choice will be at the end. That is why you, for what will happen on 26 May, what will happen in October, and if it is a vote of confidence, the result of the European elections or it is not, I think it is time for you to leave it, because as long as the days pass, the facts, the developments and the realities will disprove you. I would like, therefore, to conclude by saying that in communication competition, the fact that SYRIZA turned the motion of censure into a proposal of confidence, you were unable to handle it, you had not considered it, you had not assessed it, you had not calculated it. That is why you have lost your temper and raised issues that do not play any role, especially for people who have devoted themselves to the history of the Left and who you cannot hit them with structures, with yellowism and perversion. Yes, making a motion of censure about a tweet, which is an image from the future, but the fact that you are using the materials of the past, namely macarthism, ghemism and yellowism, this "back - front" has caused us a flatulence. It would be a good thing if we were to appear in the current reality with the weapons that the defendant has, in order to stand up to the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I would like to speak for half a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u337	You can't talk. You have a parliamentary representative. It can't be done. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u338	Just remember, Mrs. Vice President, when she's in the Chair, how much she talked to not stop the others in the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u339	Now is this a point of order? For God's sake! Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-seven students and students as well as four teachers from the 1st Eleftheroupoli Kavalas Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here because Mr Tsipras took the opportunity given to him by Mr Mitsotakis and turned a motion of censure against Mr Polakis into a proposal of confidence in the government. And the question is double to Mr Mitsotakis and to Mr Tsipras: did Mr Mitsotakis not know that Mr Tsipras will not leave Mr Polakis unprotected? Nor did he know that he will not let his parliamentary group speak by voting, as few members have expressed against the position of Mr Polakis on Mr Kymbouropoulos? He obviously knew it, but he was served by an acidification and polarization that was part of his overall strategy. And, obviously, Mr Tsipras took the opportunity not to allow his parliamentary group to drift away, although I have no illusions about her behaviour, and to applaud all, with the warmth that you have seen earlier, Mr Polakis. All of this is part of a polarisation strategy that will grow and increase as close as the European elections are in a few days' time and the national elections later. Mr. Paulakis is well known to be a lot of exposed. He's cursed everyone and everything. No one needs to memorize him, he has the outcry of public opinion, of all the political forces, except the hard forces of SYRIZA, more extensively of the press and of the ordinary world. Mr. Paulakis earlier told us about the sfakians' old lady, but he forgot that the genuine sfakies of Sfakia who have met the Madari and Gadus have an apology to ask for an apology, which he did not do, even though he tried to tell us how much he likes the disabled. He forgot, of course, that of these nine thousand said by Mr Tsipras yesterday that he was appointed to health, how many of them are disabled on the basis of PASOK's Law 2643. Because, as far as I know, the last 2K/2019 proclamation exempted the disabled. He loves them so much! These are the make news, which says here officially from the Step of the House, Mr. Paulakis. And, of course, what else did we learn from his apology earlier? That as a genuine left man he didn't go to the NSA to support it, but he went to the private sector to see how competition works. In other words, when I see SYRIZA colleagues who have served the ESS, I believe they are deeply offended. He thinks they're unworthy of going to the private sector and going as waffles to the ESS. That is what Mr Paulakis said earlier, for applauding him. Well, let Mr. Polakis, who hides and invokes Article 86 of the Constitution, when there is a question of going to justice for his insults and who is hiding in parliamentary control. I've been looking for him for three months now, because they've booked the pathological clinic at the Amalada Hospital and invoked a workload. And on the same day that he invokes a workload is at 3.00 hours a night on Facebook to answer and awkward his political opponents. I'll wait for him on Monday, see if he's coming. So we will leave him where he is and now see how the people collected this debate yesterday, with a pavementary confrontation, which evolved into the family of the Heads of Government and of Anti-Population and reached out to who has most friends with lowers. Because, obviously, the quality and dignity of politics seemed uninterested in the face of their personal survival. Ladies and gentlemen, what is everyone, what is his route, his mother, his father and his family, the Greek people know about them. But when you get to write to defend them, she goes to say you have a problem. The people know that and they don't care. He's concerned about real problems. And that is why I think we need to talk, outside the well-known 'coterology', because I think that who is less or more intertwined is not seen by the decks at the bottom, but it is seen by the substrates of the legislative arrangements which, by tens, are here to serve great interests and we have denounced them. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras has asked us to give him a vote of confidence. Why should we give him a vote of confidence? Because he was the only Prime Minister who subjugated the public property for a hundred years? Because he committed the country to 2022 with overflows of 3.5% and 2.4% after, with taxes and contributions taken from the Greek people? Of the pockets of the Greek people, 56.2 billion will be removed, when the expected GDP, if we achieve it, will only be 37 billion at the same time. Why should we give him a vote of confidence that we lost 20 billion GDP because of the adventure of 2015? Can we give him a vote of confidence that increased the public debt to 181% of GDP? Today it is 335 billion and only the fourth quarter has increased by 5%. A public debt of more than 20 billion. Why should we give him a vote of confidence? In view of the increase in the public debts in the period of its government by 55 billion? Because he cut the pensions, like I said this morning, talking to the committee, 15.5%? Because you have deducted 800 million from the pensioners with the health contribution. Paulis, work this. Because you increased the pharmaceutical expenditure by 1 billion, 750 million, you removed from the pensioners' pockets as a contribution to the medical expenses. And this is a Polakis project. Are these, ladies and gentlemen, replaced by the European election allowance you will give? It's too much less. In total you got five of the retired people in these five years and you'll return one of them. The rest of you got ten and you'll return one of them. Why, ladies and gentlemen, can anyone give you a vote of confidence? Because you owe two hundred thousand pensions and the Katrugalu law, you're reducing them by 30%? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. It's very annoying. I don't know if earlier that Mrs. Christodoulou was talking, she was hitting the same thing. In any case, I ask for a small tolerance. Let us therefore give you a vote of confidence in institutional interventions in justice and the independent authorities. About the known Laurentiadis, Petsite, Poppa, that you're trying to hide? Why should we give you a vote of confidence? Because you are trying to maintain the exit account with the pledge of 5.5 billion from the reserve of 31 billion from the pockets of the Greek people? The Prime Minister will be called the Prime Minister of the pledges. Pursued public property, pledged the taxes collected by the citizens, in order to say tomorrow that it will secure a financial area. With all this and much more, it is clear that you have neither our vote of confidence nor the Greek people. But above all the great evil you have done, I believe, is that you have devalued the terms of the dignity and moral advantage of the Left and legalised conservative policies. And now Mr Mitsotakis comes as a genuine right to tell you that he will best implement these policies. The country, however, does not need either one or the conservative policies of lasting austerity where Mr Tsipras has committed the country and will implement Mr Mitsotakis. We need another policy. She's the one Mrs. Gennama spoke about yesterday. And in order to draw conclusions from the citizens, it is only to see how Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis were confronted yesterday and how Mrs Gennimatas returned to issues relating to the country's progress, Hellenism, the problems of citizens and how we will ensure a stable and lasting exit from the crisis and the memoranda. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that now that the SYRIZA cycle, which has been a whole cycle of the unrepentant New Democracy, has been a whole cycle of PASOK, the people can draw conclusions on when the country has prospered and what policy has now to go back on, stand on its feet, not to repeat the same deadlocks. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it has been proved that no one can do alone. If we do not achieve national consensus, social consensus and a long-term exit plan, such as what the Change Movement and the Generation Fofi, is proposing, we will unfortunately repeat the mistakes of the past, as if we had learned nothing from the 11-year-old crisis. Be well and thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mrs. Helen Stamatakis, Member of SYRIZA since 1st Piraeus, has spoken for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time we will be called upon to vote for Europe, the municipalities, the communities and the regions. In the face of the critical controversy that citizens must deal with in the run-up to the elections, the Civic Opposition attempts to disorientate the public dialogue by removing it from the political issues that concern our country and the daily lives of our citizens in it and attempts to create impressions with communication tools, by transferring the confrontation to a micropolitical level. It is a conscious choice, since Mr Mitsotakis himself has denied the Prime Minister's proposal for a public debate on the planning positions of the Government and the Civilian Representation, but he chooses to table a motion of censure on a statement made on social media and which he has made a major political issue and a problem. Mr. Mitsotakis chooses the easy way. He chooses to talk about personal attitudes, instead of talking about wages, pensions, social policy, about how to strengthen the municipalities that have been financially strangled so long, how to revive dialogue, how to support democracy. You invested in scandalology, risk and fear. You were talking about a fourth memorandum, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. You're out. Since August we've been out of the memoranda, we've been out of the commission. You were talking about cuts in wages and pensions. And that's what you fell out on. Instead, not only did the non-reduction of pensions take place, but the thirteenth pension was reintroduced, the underpaid wage was abolished and the minimum was increased. Now, then, it is time to vindicate the sacrifices of the people who lifted the burden of the memorial crisis. It is time for our citizens and our people to begin to be vindicated for all that has taken place over the past few years. After the end of the committee, we are tabling our drafted proposals for a development project that will benefit everyone and everyone. Directly reducing VAT on catering and food from 24% to 13% and VAT on energy from 13% to 6%. In the course of the month, the thirteenth pension is paid and the State becomes law. It's an annual payment. Now we are planning and taking permanent measures, not just. Next year we are planning reductions in contributions for low and medium-incomes, an increase in company depreciation, a subsidy for insurance companies and new workers, a reduction in VAT on basic goods, a reduction in income tax on islands, a reduction in cooperative taxes and a reduction in the tax on agricultural cooperatives, a reduction in the cost of heating in mountain areas, a protection of the first residence and a relief from interest on loans. We have proved that we can, that we have credibility and that we are doing it. So, let's see, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, who supported the vulnerable groups of our fellow citizens. Is the sensitivity that the New Democracy presents today for the wheelchair struggles, or is it working in a vulgar manner on Mr Kymbropoulou's personality? For the first time four and a half thousand permanent recruitments were made in special education and education. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, to come together and visit the five special schools in Piraeus. There we will see the care that exists at the moment, we will talk to parents, children, teachers, and you will see how the system of equal living for disabled people is structured. In the area of the employment of disabled and their families, by law of 2016, 15% of recruitment is foreseen through ADP in the public and public sectors. Disabled persons shall be dehabilitated. All disability benefits without any cut and granted without income or property criteria have been granted and the Annex to the table of irreversible answers from the forty-three in forty-four cases for which the period of invalidity of the insured has been determined indefinitely. The first actions of the SYRIZA Government were the humanitarian crisis response programme to support the most vulnerable sections of the population that the previous governments had left to be crushed by the burden of the economic crisis. We abolished the 5 euro ticket to hospitals, two and a half million insurers gained access to public health and medical care, and a primary health care framework was established, new structures were created and existing ones were upgraded. We have ratified the Istanbul Convention and the law on effective equality ensured the functioning of structures to protect and support victims of racial violence. From the outset we have built a social state with a single legislative framework and a network of protection and information structures. It is now time to build a new development model for many with environmental protection, respect for human rights and safeguarding labour rights. You, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, propose that social inequalities be perpetuated and increased in the name of free competition. So we invite you to present your arguments to the people's crisis, instead of hiding behind communication tricks. Today, May 9th, is a historic day. It's the end day of World War II. It's the day of the birth of a peaceful Europe. We today, instead of talking about Europe, about peace, about the enlargement of democracy in Europe, instead of talking and setting up a shield to leave fascism out of our country, from the world and from Europe, we choose - New Democracy has chosen to set up a badly-known scenario of disorientation of political and political dialogue. You have not succeeded in this, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. As our Prime Minister said, we will have a vote of confidence both from Parliament and from the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u343	Thank you to Mrs Stamatakis and especially to her mention of the anniversary of the end of the Second World War where Nazism and Fascism were defeated in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to have a sense of how we go, I should like to tell you that today we will run out of the fifth circle of speakers and tomorrow morning we will begin at 10 a.m. according to the programme, with the start of the sixth cycle of speakers, so that we can make a relatively timely start of the process. The speaker of SYRIZA I Thessaloniki, Alexandros Triantafylides, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as it may seem paradoxical, we must stress that Mr Mitsotakis was convincing yesterday. He also strongly convinced the most skeptical Greek citizen that he is unable, cannot, is weak and inappropriate to respond to the status of the candidate Prime Minister, the candidate ruler of the country. He was weighed, measured and found incomplete. Caricature of the institutional leader of the Anti-Population officer, who smashed his own party and his party caramanlic school of metre and moderation, scratching the bottom of the barrel of para-political and yellowism. A pulp of vulgarity and injuriousness, transforming the school of measure and moderation into a training of determination. When that's how the Chief of Officer Representation speaks, how does he educate the members of his party? How exactly are they invited to get over him? What kind of tools? I hope not with axes. Mitsotakis received a final divorce yesterday from the middle and central democrats by choosing the far right, fanatical and far-flung rhetoric of his party's extremes. The central democrats, those who claim with us Greece stability, security, prosperity and return to normality after the monumental cannibalism, fully understood the personal political deadlock of Mitsotakis where he leads a mixture of cynicism and arrogance, arrogance and insecurity. The most re-revolutionary avengement right-right with the untreated deprivation syndrome of power sparta and threatens to return with army of hatred and vengeance an insecure Mitsotakis. The great democratic progressive party knows its debt not only because it does not forget what it means right, but because the people do not forget Venizelos - Samaras, redundancies, closed shops, unemployment, immigration abroad, suicide and food from garbage. What can he tell the citizens? Whenever he manages to defuse a proposal for tomorrow, he threatens them. He threatens: 'I will abolish your eight hours, because it is over!' He threatens: 'I will abolish supplementary pensions because I speak the language of the truth!' He threatens: "I will abolish your Christmas gift in the private sector", because in the public sector he cut it, he scanned it all in 2012. They are threatening: 'We will abolish your unemployment benefit!' 'Don't wait', he said yesterday, 'the third pension is a permanent measure'. This is what he told you yesterday, retired, Mitsotakis, because the economy can't withstand its own credit and anguish of the 500 million Nea Democracy and PASOKs that they owe to the banks, PPC, the insurance funds, the "Drugs of Chania" and others. So bring the 500 million to give them to the pensioners, to the unemployed, to those who are deprived of them. Bring back the stolen lives of the people who couldn't stand the same time you were struggling with the midget, the remula, the ravenous and the predator's lives. The people know our own weaknesses, any shortcomings and any mistakes. However, he is aware of hypocrisy and phantomism. They're struggling for natural disasters, but at the same time what do they suggest? Any five firefighters leaving to hire one. They're sprinkling for "law and order", for law and order, but at the same time they think five policemen need to be fired and one hired. Same to health, to education, to nurses, to teachers, to teachers! Is that how they're gonna protect the country? So they're going to inspire order and security? The citizens point to us any weaknesses, whatever our mistakes, because at the same time the justified criticism of us and our Government at the same time, at the same time, are awaiting us. The citizens recognize despite what they testify to us that 'they do not steal'. This is a critical turning phrase. They don't steal! Our struggle, however, concerns the daily lives of citizens, citizens of Thessaloniki and Macedonia. Our Thessaloniki, the Thessaloniki that unites us, is the one that inspires us. Our central goal is to raise it daily, because citizens are not misinterpreted by those who sell false patriotism at the same time as business with their neighbours. They are judging our works, because we are what we are doing and not what we are saying. Together, we put a brake on the immunity of tax collector companies by tightening the legislation to stop the bulging of weak citizens within their own homes. Together we have given and continue to fight for the protection of first residence. Together we demanded that the weak borrower be given priority over the funds. Together we brought to the Treasury totaling at four years 350 million from duty-free online gambling, which until 2014 brought just 27,366 euros. Together we have called and managed to abolish the Members' tax to equal treatment for citizens and Members of Parliament towards Greek society. Together we asked and managed to get the budget surplus and was given in '16, '17, '18 to the weaker. Together we asked to reduce PPC tariffs for traders, craftsmen, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises. Together we claimed and proceeds the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki, a request for decades for the city and Macedonia. Together we claimed to be awarded and attributed to the former camps "Pavlou Mela" and "Kodra" to the citizens of Thessaloniki as places of recreation, entertainment and culture where the Museum of Pontian Hellenism and the Museum of National Resistance will be erected. We accelerated the projects at the airport of "MAKEDONIA" not for a congestive provincial airport, but already with the foundation and construction of Terminal II facilities and facilities, with the airports that can welcome very large planes with emphasis and support to tourism. Together we accelerated the construction of the metro of Thessaloniki and its extensions. The stopped until 2015 Thessaloniki metro has been running verbally both in the central line and in its extensions to Kalamaria and western Thessaloniki with a visible time of integration and performance to the Thessalonikians in 2020. We don't do them a favor, we owe it to the city, for a European city of one and a half million which has a single mass transport instrument, and which waits as a manna from the sky to the metro. We are striving to exalt with the workers the sinner OSTH and improve with new buses, the recruitment of new drivers and the multiplication of the city's urban transport routes. The new local health units are already operating in western Thessaloniki and large hospitals are being strengthened with young doctors and nurses, and the Social Hospital opened up. They were closed, we are opening hospitals, schools, organizations, giving life to the city of Thessaloniki. Together we reported environmental incidents in western Thessaloniki to be taken and the necessary measures have been taken. Together we have created human conditions in popular markets for producers, professionals and consumers with cheap and safe products. Together we joined forces to give life to the Thermaikos through the creation and operation of the Thermaikos Thermaikos Agency. Together we created the special spatial plan of the new Toumba that will change the overall image and function of the area by building the new PAOK field. In conclusion, for all of this, the dilemma of 26 May is clear and will be answered by our presence and the absence - let them think - of those who think not to go to the polls. The ones who put us in or the ones who got us out of the memoirs? With those who plundered and bankrupt the country or those who put in a row, did they house the finances? Together, we're going forward! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u346	However, judging by the speech of the previous colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the government is probably in panic and has drawn to this panic and some of the colleagues. Is he in panic, Mr. Comrade? The speech heard was the epitome of hypocrisy, vulgarity and division. "Don't vote for New Democracy, it will abolish the OAED allowance, unemployment. Don't vote New Democracy, it'll abolish the minimum guaranteed income, the social solidarity allowance. Don't vote for the New Democracy, it'll fire people!' However, I must tell you that both hypocrisy and vulgarity and above all the attempt to bring back division, a new division in Greek society, will be a past on 26 May. The debate on the vote of confidence which we are holding today in this House is a first-class opportunity to show, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the tragic account of the four-year government of this country by Mr Tsipras' ideological and disastrous government. Unfortunately, this is a government that, at the beginning of its term, did not hesitate to take the country on the rocks, through the decisions it made, just so that it does not show how false and how unreasonably they were what it promised to do in order to secure the vote of the Greek people before taking over the elections. A government that promoted and continues to promote obscene, vulgar populism. A government that distorts reality. A government that promotes national devolution. A government that, as I said, is on a trip and in panic, celebrating the VAT returning to 13% in the focus, where he was received in 2014, from 24% where she had ejected him the four years that govern this place. A government that celebrates its supposedly thirteenth pension when - very well said Mrs Bakoyannis before - anyone who looks at the budget will see that every month we give EUR 2.2 billion for pensions. So the thirteenth pension for all would cost EUR 2.2 billion. But Mr Tsipras himself said he would spend 800 million just. So this is not a third pension. This is an election allowance. And why do I say election? Because everyone knows that the thirteenth pension, like the tenth third wage, is given at the end of the year at Christmas. But when did Mr. Tsipras choose to give this allowance, which he called the thirteenth pension? On May 23rd. Why? Because on 23 May you're paid, on 26 May you vote. You mentioned - this is the new one which, unfortunately, was brought by Mr Tsipras into the political life of the country - old-fashioned and attempted, for the first time at national level, to buy voters. However, the policy pursued by Mr Tsipras, over and above all the areas he has affected, has affected another very important sector, the energy sector. How does that prove? Ten days ago PPC officially announced the results for the financial year 2018. PPC in 2018 had a loss of EUR 900 million when in 2014, only four years ago, PPC has a net profit of EUR 100 million after tax. PPC had 100 million euros in 2014, 900 million losses in 2018. It is a typical example of inability and criminal irresponsibility. PPC, which is today the main energy pillar, which provides 80% of electricity in Greece, which everyone knows that the Greek economy and society cannot satisfy essential needs without electricity. And how do they treat this economic crime that the rulers have committed today? "There is no problem," says the Minister with an extra cynicity. "The Greeks will not have to light candles in a few months, when the next government will come." This is how you are, unfortunately, facing the country's most insolvent industrial company. Those who spoke and speak of allegedly defending the public interest, public enterprises, have destroyed PPC, ELTA, which were profitable in 2014 and loss-making in 2018. To pay the wages in the previous months they had to make an advance on the fees of the entire year that the public pays, like PPC, and no one knows what they will do in the coming months, when the revenues will not be enough to pay wages. The same is true of Athens' urban transport. They were profitable in 2014, loss-making in 2018. Of course, for the country's Prime Minister this whole nightmare scene is just a misunderstanding and an attempt by counterpopulation to show something else from reality. Unfortunately, the reality is very hard, it is here, it threatens all Greeks and, unfortunately, it does not have micro-political and micro-party tactics. Ladies and gentlemen, over and above economics, there are nationalities. Greece at the time of Mr. Tsipras is a weak Greece, without prestige, without a strong international presence, a Greece that monitors the exacerbation of Turkish provocation in the Turkish exclusive economic zone and in the Eastern Mediterranean. Mr Erdogan and Turkey, unfortunately, are escalating the challenges of the Republic of Cyprus, threatening both security and stability in the wider region. We are wondering, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras visited Turkey, officially in February, which passed us a few months ago. There it was announced by Maximos that he had in private and four talks, behind closed doors, where energy issues were discussed. Will Mr. Tsipras inform the heads of political parties what was discussed in this closed meeting? Will Mr Tsipras inform us of the terms of the so-called ‘degression agreement’ in the Aegean Sea and what the confidence-building measures he said he agreed with Mr Erdogan? Because, instead of building confidence and de-escalation in the Aegean Sea, we see the escalation of Turkish provocation, which threatens, as I said, the Republic of Cyprus, but also our sovereign rights in the wider region. What will Mr. Tsipras do? Will you choose the same way and the same tactic that he chose in the scout? What's he agreed to? What's he hiding? Why doesn't he know? Are we going to see this next day, like all the other political crimes that have been committed? But it is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greeks will condemn these behaviours at the European elections on 26 May. This divisive mentality that is condensed in the election slogan once again by SYRIZA "or we or we, or we finish them or end them", must be a definitive past for the country. We need more than ever a new national unit so that the major reforms and the transformation of the Greek economy can finally take place. Above all, however, ladies and gentlemen, we need a new morality in the country's governance, but also in the daily lives of Greek citizens, who will take advantage of all the experiences of the past, all the human resources of the country, to provide as a responsible state a better life for all Greeks and all Greeks. Mr Mitsotakis is committed to doing the next day and that is why we all support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Mr. Antonios Syrigos, SYRIZA MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening to me, and that is why I will try not to punish you, respecting the time. I would like to raise four issues, in order to avoid repetitions, which could have the following titles, I would like to prejudge you: Who has the initiative of moving in politics today, since this is a key element in the future developments, transparency and issues of institutional decency, self-government and European elections to be taken into account and one question: Proposal of censure, of substance or of communication? Three are the facts that define political developments in our country and on which they are called, not only to take a position, but also to set up their political parties. All these three facts were created by the government. The first is our exit, in August 2018, from the programs. A key point for future developments. Others are placed in favor, others against, others withhold or remain ecstatic. Some people even talk about returning to normality, which they would not have mentioned if it hadn't been prior to August 2018. The second is the Constitutional Review. Everyone was put on it and will be invited to do so in both the rest of the time and the pre-election period. Others have been negative, others positive. It is important that, on the initiative of this government, it has proceeded and brought serious results. For example, I refer to Articles 62 and 86, where there has been as much convergence as possible, but others that are not here to mention. The third is foreign policy. The years of inertia that tortured it and initiatives were taken, which upgraded our country's prestige and its ability to develop into a strong regional factor, balanced by the expansion plans of some reform forces in our region. In this context, I mention, for example, the incorporation of alliances or - to answer - interest partnerships with various countries, strong players, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans, a credible policy in the European Union and in the alliances to which we are members. And finally, the Prespecies's Agreement. All of this in isolation, but also as a whole, must be foreign policy - they are part of a policy that ensures our participation in the wider reclassifications and developments in our region and in the world, which will be immediate. I continue with the issue of transparency and institutional decency. This government, in addition to legislative initiatives, which are reflected not only in the laws, but also in its proposal for constitutional review, has shown that it has the will not to leave any room for opaqueness and corruption. There have been many such issues during the period. I stand out from all of one of the wounds that must be closed and that is the attack on the credibility of policy, caused by easy lending on scandalous terms and without the appropriate guarantees of political parties. This is what I consider to be the most serious blow to the confidence of civil society in institutions. I consider this to be a top priority compared to others who are concerned with justice, because it is a matter not only of institutional decency for democracy, but also of dignity for politics. Unfortunately, those who have political responsibilities in this matter have not so far given the appropriate answers. I am not talking about criminal indulgence issues, but about political emotiveness. With regard to the risk of the self-government elections, I must emphasise one point which must not escape anyone and is the peak political element, the core with which all participants have to deal with either as candidates or as voters. And that is the 'local case'. I'm talking like an old self-government, not like someone who knows more than anyone else. I would like to point out - in the case of the 'local case' - that, as it has been proved in the name of a completely abstract partyism, the 'local case' is being ignored. Not many times, he's completely ignored. As far as the European elections are concerned, I think that four are the key questions we have to answer and are also urgent dilemmas. The choice in these will also determine our European future. The answer to these will lead us to the forces that care about democracy and humanism, such as SYRIZA. Politics or economy? The experience has taught us that politics must take precedence. This also applies to Europe, we have European elections. European unification or dismantling and introverting? Clearly the first. Enlargement of democracy as a goal - which means seeking to create and strengthen representative institutions throughout Europe - in Europe or to strengthen bureaucracy? Finally, a strong and peaceful Europe or European states with foreign policies, which can lead to the terrible past of the policies of the 'Great Forces' or of racism, darkness and intolerance? That's a big question, too. I will read you an excerpt from a book entitled “Alber Cammy. The future of European culture, the round table under the chairmanship of Angel Katkouzenos". It had become too early and it was prophetic. "In November of '47 Albert Cammy co-signed the first appeal to the international community, which began with the historic finding that Europe could be divided as the root of the war, united, root of peace." Ladies and gentlemen, a motion of censure has been tabled in order to plead out behaviour rather than deeds, words and no deeds, in an attempt by the opposition, which, in my opinion, is unfortunate and extremely inappropriate, which, as far as I know, has no equivalent from the relocation, unless I am mistaken - since the motion of censure as a supreme parliamentary instrument cannot be likened to the bench of an old pedophile. This shows that the only concern for opposition was the communication of a serious parliamentary instrument. This is also evidenced by the fact that the participants themselves did not look forward to substantial political implications beyond the impressions. The Ministry of Health has too much to show as his fertile work and his ministers are honest people. So no one can talk to them about their health policy. Undeniable witness is our islands, from which I come. In the Cyclades, great steps were taken in the field of health, such as in Syra, Naxos, Santorini. And Paul has given them his finest self. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the one who has the initiative defines his political toy and his risks. And that's the government. This is because its initiatives on the issues that I mentioned above ensure social cohesion, highlighting the weakest citizens and ensuring - I am also endorsing - the representativeness of the institutions, control and democracy and, finally, they shield the country in order to demonstrate it to regional power - that is one objective and we must all serve it independently of a party - capable of confronting the ambitious expansionary dreams of neighbouring states, highlighting it in a pole of stability and peace for our region. And anyone who has not understood the developments and the role we have to play is not capable of ruling. Now, particularly when developments are going on, it must be considered that some have anticipated and carried out the necessary preparations, that is, the government which we trust for this reason. Thank you very much. I've punished you a little. I spoke a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much Mr. Syragos. The Minister for Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Michalis Kalogerou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was, in fact, unthinkable when it took place, that a left party took over the rule of the country. You - I am referring to the coup d'état at the time of the New Democracy with PASOK - more than anyone you had anticipated the developments in early 2015. You knew what explosion, what surprise you had with your actions, prepared for Greek society and made sure that the country was caught up in the inability to repay its debt with a clear aim to achieve the so-called left-hand parentheses. So you have already acted since then like about today, taking the lead or supporting forces that are politically opposed to overcoming the national and social crisis with society upright and having even recovered the autonomy of the political initiative. You failed. We have succeeded in not being a historical parentheses, but rather in stopping the social crisis as it appeared by the beginning of 2015. We have been saddened not to break, so that hope is not lost against the strong air that was blowing from every direction internationally, being alone then throughout Europe, when we were then forced to make an honest but strategically smart - as it turns out - a compromise. And that while we had to face another unprecedented crisis in the refugee crisis. And today we are here again having been raised again, catching the thread of our social reference. It was worth it, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, all this struggle and all this path for every multi-billion plan, for every time, at every moment of the negotiation, such as HILTON, it ended up in these Chambers and the struggles that we have taken together all this time. It has been a unique ally so far and it is still the social majority, the relationship of trust with her and the belief that we are right. We will also base ourselves on the election battles in front of us. Our relationship of trust with the people was expressed at every step of our way to this point, especially when the last financial adjustment agreement was made before the National Representation and in the crisis of the Greek people, as was never done by anyone else. We have won the elections again and we have started implementing the programme - the one you were using - the evaluations. Period during which the small and large negotiations continued, the initiatives that showed that the Greek people were finally in the first shot. It was and it's in the first shot, and that, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, you couldn't stand it and you couldn't stand it. For the first time a financial adjustment programme was being implemented, the parallel programme was being implemented. You've got that too. In August 2018, the third Support - Stability Programme was completed. The Left Government succeeded where all the former had failed. It achieved a policy that, on the one hand, managed to secure the necessary cash reserves of the state that were sufficient to meet the immediate repayment needs of the debt without a new loan, along with a new definitive perspective of exit into the markets at historically low interest rates, but also dominating the policies of a new political welfare state for many, providing society with opportunities to boost development. The early completion of the programme has caused you and it is at least awkward today, and it has deprived you of all expectation that the Greek Government has unequivocally maintained and maintained against the national interest, what existed then and nowadays, to fail in the field of the economy. That's why we're here today. You have again undertaken the work - underestimating the perception of the Greek people - to set up and support another trap, a mechanism of propaganda and occult, which will draw him away from the important things that are before us on the European continent, to raise issues of style and aesthetics and to remove the Greek people from the issues of substance. This time you have the job, make the different policy towards austerity parentheses. The new bet for a new parentheses is all that's been happening since August 2018. To overcome, in other words, quickly the time when Greece managed to have an increasingly autonomous fiscal policy in the period of 2018. And that is why, once again, it is a timely mix of policies that the Greek Government has put in place before and the European elections. "Let's finish the job," says Officer Opposition President, meaning rather to prevent the completion of the cleansing work launched by the parliamentary majority of SYRIZA, completing its preliminary work in cases such as health scandals, the criminal proceedings "NOVARTIS", sea-loving banks, sea-loving parties, armaments affairs and so many others. It is a long list of incomprehensible cases of infidelity against the public interest, against the state's finances and against the citizens who remain awkward and angry. After August 2018, the proposal for the Constitutional Review and the Prespecies Agreement came as well. Political responsibility is inconceivable and is never recorded, no matter how hard you try to blur the waters, calling for a general silence against the word and the public debate on justice. You consider justice a mechanism that is weak and fearful, which is allegedly unable to withstand public criticism. We're here today for another reason. You question the government that it considers and defends that everyone must recognize the sacrifices of the Greek people, who are entitled to see their labors render for his benefit. You came here to give the battle of a front guard, collide in the direction of healing the wounds of society and restarting the real economy, i.e. improving the daily struggle for biopoliticism of everyone who has already been representing this government since 2015. We legislate since August 2018 what I will mention and will mention to you to hear again, because they are not heard, not read, you do not see them. And, of course, the few times we hear and read them, we read them with a 'but' next door. But the Greek people realise that this is his everyday life. Reduction of HPAI by 10% in the mid-term, reduction of the insurance contributions of free professionals, self-employed and farmers, reduction of the tax on distributed profits, gradual reduction of the income tax on legal persons from 29% to 25%, reduction of the insurance contributions for young people under the age of 24, introduction of a new housing allowance with economic and family criteria, strengthening the school units of special education and education, strengthening the "Help at Home", abolition of the subordinate and increasing the minimum wage, protection of first residence with expansion and for merchants. These positive budgetary interventions shall be implemented without the application of the measure of the reduction of personal differences in main and ancillary pensions, as you have foreseen. All this is not promises or implacentness, it is measures adopted which are being implemented. And, contrary to what you predict, they are tangible measures and what has been announced by the Prime Minister and the financial staff a few days ago. A hundred and twenty instalments are in Parliament, a reduction in VAT on the focus of 13%, a reduction in food VAT, a reduction in VAT on energy, a permanent provision of a fair tenth-third pension, and the measures announced for 2020 and to which no one can question that duty-free at EUR 8,636 is still completely protected. And the question we ask you is how will you stand to vote on it? Will you vote for them? And if so, how? Will you vote for this codification? Will you vote for these crumbs? And what will Mr Webber think if you do vote on these measures? Within this concise route, an account of the last period, there can be no mention of concrete actions by the Ministry of Justice, which demonstrate this memorial, reformist and legislative autonomy. The completion of the OSCE programme on electronic justice which has the strong kernel of the citizen, the drawing up of new codes, the new Code of Procedure, the status of judicial officers, the exploitation and the possibility of seeing the relevant regulations of the Code of Civil Procedure again and of making changes, the strengthening of alternative ways of resolving disputes, the mediation and arbitration, of course, the new penal codes that we hope will come to Parliament this month with significant improvements and changes after the consultation period, a good response that will be given through the criminal codes to this unreasonable criminal latitude and to all criminals in the last few years. The hurtful penitentiary system and a stable strategy implemented since 2015, about a thousand recruitments that we have achieved in the area of justice, a significant increase in the current budget of the Ministry of Justice by 42 million. With a phrase from the law of the Memorandum of Need in the autonomy of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, today, the opposition is in a political panic. This panic reveals the deep disrespect for the sacrifices of the Greek people, since it is considered by the Opposition that such a critical policy can be exercised exclusively in terms of communication. The question that raised the motion of censure by the President of the New Democracy could be a real debate on how to express the political speech in general, and in particular how it is formed on social media. In the motion of censure, in a memorial of indifference, in my view, of political controversy, the only reason that could politically and constitutionally support a motion of censure, that is to say, finally referring to the political substance, is limited to the words 'unworthy Minister who has broken up the hospitals'. Mr Mitsotakis said a phrase again - 'the work of Mr Polakis will not be mentioned'. So he repudiated the motion of censure that the New Democracy tabled and gave us the opportunity, to be able today to stand and make this statement to the Greek people. All the rest concerns the construction of an annoying political figure, cut off from the whole of a personality and its work, namely the current Deputy Minister of Health, which in a difficult situation succeeded, among other things, - and I will mention it briefly - with Andreas Xanthos all that he mentioned in his speech, the cover of uninsured hospitals, the deletion of patients' debts, the reinforcement of health structures in a narrow financial area, in the same area of doctors' recruitment, overtime, the return of the "ERRIKOS DANY" Hospital to the Greek public, surpluses in hospitals that you have had with your policies bankrupt. However, should the fact that it also brought to light all these files, which have proved the irresponsible analgesia of the previous governments, be justified, must you prosecute him and give him a character that he does not have, that is, the analgesic toward a fellow human being who is an LEI? And who really thinks that? It could indeed be unworthy as long as it sacrifices the political substance to the altar of communication. And on this altar of communication, the net debate on the LEADER policies did not want there to be, because the position of the Head of New Democracy is that the inequalities are of course and socially unavoidable. But we will not call him an abstract, the Greek people will judge him. So you have one last attempt left and you will, indeed, give a great election campaign, which will ultimately be the one to cost you. You will continue to codify, you will display photos by using sometimes para-state methods. You will order journalistic professed revelations to announce them later in the House. You will try to speculate politically on mourning, claiming the exclusive privilege in it. Bereavement and, in particular, a national tragedy cannot have political representation, otherwise we are talking about a grievance. But even in the face of an unspeakable national tragedy the debate should be lasting, sober, and practicable. Instead, run away from setting up false accounts of hiding the dead. And that is only so that we do not discuss the following: what policies have not been implemented for the environment? How has civil protection been weakened by the memoranda or what policies have you not supported? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm not plundering. In 2016 and 2017 when we were giving a legitimate struggle for problems that had to be tackled, there were two amendments. One concerned firefighters, and the other concerned equipment to deal with the anti-missile period. Both of these amendments were not voted on by the New Democracy. I put the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Michael Kalogerou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] What we should also be discussing is how is the implementation of the measures taken by the government immediately after the fires? What's the signal that we all emit as a political body so that we don't let that happen again? Because, in my opinion, what concerns people there is how this will not be repeated and I have had the opportunity to hear it from the residents' representatives when we had a meeting on the occasion of the debate on the Criminal Code. To conclude, the moral and political gap between the two sides is understood. We are actually two different worlds, and we have thankfully agreed in this Chamber and in this pleasant atmosphere. But you did not hesitate to conduct policies which led the country to the economic and social deadlock. You do not hesitate to use every means even murders of characters. But that is basically the case: why should we at all costs pass on the message that we are supposed to be at the last point in political morality, and that is why you, as the best of the moral decline in politics, must prevail. So for us and the Greek people what counts, it is not that the monster season lasts long enough and that it is completed with the final prevalence of the young person against the old, with the prevalence of what we are expressing today against what you are expressing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Minister of Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Michael Kalogerou. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. A moment ago Mrs Bakoyannis was looking for an expression to describe the tactics followed by the SYRIZA Government and could not say it. I'll tell you what this word is. This word is called'standalism', pure and pure stalinism. Speaking of stalinists, I would like to say in the report made by the GOC on the Golden Dawn once again, on the well-known tape that plays every time, that on 9 May 1956, people gathered out here in Athens to protest the condemnation of Karaoli and Dimitrios and the hard measures of Harding who drowned in blood and had nothing to do with the seventy years of crying and everything you say. You will cry, because after a hundred years of presence and lying you will strive to enter the House by force, because the Greek society and especially the Greek youth are coming to the patriots of the Golden Dawn. But the biggest premium for the SYRIZA Government was with the three-day debate just before the new measures, such as the regulation of the hundred and twenty-dollars, which no one will be able to pay for, the reduction of VAT on the focus that you increased, and the extra pensions that the New Democracy has not been able to pay, but you are coming by election and you are giving. Who gives advice or rather instructions to the New Democracy? Probably your common foreign orders. The New Democracy expressed an unscrupulous threat - an announcement of distrust to Polakis, giving all to become another vote of confidence victory for the SYRIZA government. What was that for? I would also like to refer to what Mrs Christodoulopoulos said about the golden children. He should be ashamed of even a little. But I know the answer, he's not even ashamed of talking about the golden kids. They know how their children grow up when they have special needs. Everyone along with the neoliberal anti-language, your anti-social memorial policy cut off from the disabled, pensions, job opportunities and medical benefits, not to mention the special education and inclusion departments in schools. Now you all suddenly caught the sensitivity to people with disabilities. SYRIZA naturally continued the policy aimed at cutting pensions and salaries in general by all Greeks, targeted the free professionals and bleeding the Greek people. He increased VAT and now gives crumbs as philosophical, fast, politics. One would say that the mistakes of the New Democracy, as I said before, are constant and great. I wonder if it's a mistake, or is it a manipulation? Is it a forced manipulation by your commanders without emotions - they do not - which leads to a reduction in the difference in elections and clearly in preparation for society for great coexistence? It's happened before. It has also been revealed by Mrs Bakoyannis, when she said that you saved the SYRIZA government by voting in August 2015 for the SYRIZA memorandum and you gave breath and breath to this government with its destructive continuity, only because she misled you by humiliating you. I mean, for the chair, you supported this government. Seriously, if the Prespecies' Agreement hadn't gone through, the betrayal of the Prespecies, SYRIZA was playing you straight in the election, with these benefits he gave the world and some unequivocal things that should have been done for decades. So SYRIZA defied PASOK and exonerated it from voters and executives as I have said before. Mr. Theocharopoulos from KINAL now has become Minister of Tourism. It fits him well. He didn't have time to unpack, he's got the bags ready, and now the boat goes to New Democracy. We also see a panic of New Democracy MPs and journalists. In political behavior and politics, in general, SYRIZA has emptyd you, has replaced you with the memorial shift and his love for Merkel and the IMF. It's SYRIZA now and capitalists and neoliberals. It frightens you to be copied in the lifestyle right now. Lower, cigars, midwifes, canalarchs, homes abroad. But what, in fact, you're afraid of in the New Democracy, is that SYRIZA does not copy you in the way you handle your political opponents. You understand what I mean, the construction that the New Democracy set up to combat the third political force that the people had voted for, the Golden Dawn. That's what you're afraid of SYRIZA not making you copy to it. So your joint missions force you not to exercise real opposition. What is easier than a opposition to a destructive policy conducted by SYRIZA over the years? Instead, what is New Democracy doing? It supports and votes in favour of SYRIZA's memorandum. It supports the building of a mosque, the cohabitation pact, citizenship and of course supports the complex name of Skopje. How do New Democracy respond opposition to SYRIZA’s ideologue policy against the Greek nation and country? It puts Ceridis in her Eurovoc, of course, which says we are Ottoman children, that we behave hard at Makedonski, that Alexander the Great is of the same importance as the garbage bin outside his home, that the Pontian Genocide is an invention of the Greeks to exploit it politically. Because the anniversary of the Greek genocide of the Pontus is close and at the request of the Polish unions, the Golden Dawn has tabled a request for the illumination of the Parliament. You've been lighting her for a thousand or two other things. You should do that too. To understand the Pontian Genocide negligents that the three hundred and fifty - three thousand souls don't look for recognition. That's for granted. Right is sought against their slaughterers, i.e. the Turks. I go to events about the Molecular Genocide, report the three hundred and fifty-three thousand dead, but they don't mention who killed them, they don't mention the word Turk. The crime of the Greek governments against the Pontian element is not only continuing on the issue of genocide but also on the Pontians who came to Greece and then, afterward, the recurring, the relatives of the Pontus, whom you have always behaved as Greek government for decades as foreigners, and now of course the Golden Dawn supports them. And they as Greek patriots far more than some Greeks who have been here for many more years, support Golden Dawn. We lived on the days of SYRIZA’s Bolsheviks in many parts of the country Resurrection without Saint Light. He came after an hour, two hours. Explanation? It's late because they've changed their airport so they don't go to pick it up, the Golden Dawn MPs say. As long as it is against the Golden Dawn and neither of you complain, even if the Holy Light is delayed. But the truth is that you are shaking the Holy Light and his symbolism. You are shaking the Greeks' need to declare his Christian faith. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I shall end. When Muslims and other religions do it, it doesn't bother you. And that proves that you're not just atheists, you're unchristians. The opposition papers opened by Tsipras and Mitsotakis include the following complaints and let the Greek people hear them, because the elections are near. Scandals on both sides with hatreds in Ministries, canalarchs and shipowners are doing their best in New Democracy and SYRIZA, offshores funding New Democracy, the Prime Minister's family made business on April 21st, New Democracy supported, covered and defended its staff condemned for paedophilia. We've heard all this for the first time. Finally, however, the complaints and the two political leaders also make a joint finding that, in all of this, their common enemy is the Golden Dawn. I therefore fully agree that adversarial to this corrupt political system and regime is the Golden Dawn, which has declared an undeniable struggle to save the nation and its children. As much as you impose media exclusion and social media - these ridiculous things - people will support Golden Dawn. When New Democracy loses its cohesive substance in the next elections - which is, of course, the government perspective and after the coup d'état of New Democracy - mass voters from all parties will be released and, above all, from New Democracy and join the Golden Dawn, which by a national opposition that is already in place, will also become an official opposition that will lead to a national government shortly afterwards. All together, unite, complicate, consult, you can't prevent it. The people will decide, and the people will want the Greek patriots of the Golden Dawn to be strong. You can't change it by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u353	Mr Dimitrios Vettas, MP Fthiotidas of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u354	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy and the PASOK love leaps from what appears to be time leaps in particular. I heard a colleague from KINAL a while ago talking about SYRIZA's responsibilities. Only he forgot something. He left half a trillion more than a public and private debt, forgot goals that he did not achieve. They forgot failed memos, they forgot everything. I also heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative speak of an unprecedented crisis in 2009. Early crisis in 2009, the world lived! For the rest, for the New Democracy and the PASOK, it was from old knowledge of the crisis, it was from old knowledge of the deficits, it was from old knowledge of the public debts. They obviously were MPs in both 2005 and 2006 and 2007 and 2008, when they voted for budgets and saw the rapid increase in public debt. I have not heard any Member from at the time of the New Democracy, no PASOK Member concerned and talking about this increase. So the crisis was unprecedented, difficult and unbearable only for the Greek people. When one accepts a reproach, what is of interest to what one looks at first, it is who submits this reproach, because he submits it and what time he submits it. If we go to the last two figures on why and when, I think the Greek people have understood, they are no longer a fool. The Greek people are not easily caught foolish and understood that this motion of censure, which has become a vote of confidence for the government, had only one purpose, to communicate the second large wave of the extremely important positive measures for the Greek economy and society following the exit of the country in the summer of 2018 from the Memorandum and the economic programme. In the absence of a political proposal, you know, there are cries. And, obviously, the New Democracy should in this Chamber promote, present its political programme. What did he choose? He chose black propaganda and black politics, maybe because black one matched at times of the right in old dark times. I would like to believe that it will not be as timely as the old one has ever been, but it seems to me to be a timely motto 'the people no longer means it right'. Obviously we will have the possibility, if not now in the Euro-elections, during the national elections, to explain not only our own programme but also the New Democracy programme, which, if you like, is broken down by anthraxes here in Parliament, but also by the television stations from New Democracy Members, whom you do not consider naive. Don't think they make mistakes when they talk about the abolition of unemployment benefits. Don't consider them naive when they talk about the abolition of allowances and Christmas gifts. They've got to give it somewhere. So the great objective of Greek society not only in the European elections - but also in the European elections, of course, but also in the national elections is the strategic defeat of the political project of New Democracy. We didn't just have the black luck of New Democracy and PASOK running us in the good years, especially since the 1990s. We had a worse black fate, so we had a great fate to manage these two political forces the first and second Memorandums. And, obviously, when they managed as they managed the fates of the Greek people with this disastrous result, you understand how absolutely certain they would fail to manage the memoranda. We have received, ladies and gentlemen, a country which is bankrupt. We received bankrupt policies and, of course, these bankrupt policies accompanied, as always, a bankrupt policy. The Greek citizen must know, the Greek citizen must know, we must remind the Greek citizen that the government took over the Genarris, and the next two months had to pay wages and pensions. There was half a billion missing. The Greek citizen must know that. The Greek citizen must know that when they left and left the door open with the election of the President of the Republic, in the country there were 50 billion missing to pay back for the years 2015 and 2016 interest and debt. The Greek people cannot and must never forget that. But there was another deficit in accountability. They've never been censored for anything to the Greek people. So now, when justice is unpredictable, you see voices and cries about provocation, construction, etc. But these political forces are well known. I think that before every election campaign, a huge political and a huge moral and essential issue should be solved. parties that have been ruling, parties that owe the Greek citizen, have to settle their loans, have to regulate their debts, have to explain with transparency to the Greek people that they are paying for their loans. It is their moral obligation but it is also an essential right for the Greek people to know it. We are listening to a disastrous policy for worse and destructive government. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, who might have voted for New Democracy and the PASOK. Would the four hundred thousand unemployed who have found work for the days of this government vote? I don't think so. Would our seven hundred thousand fellow humans who took the social income of solidarity while having them thrown down? I don't think so again. Perhaps the three thousand people who, through the notice, lose their hostage, become free, are now recruited as permanent staff in the 'Help at home' programme? I don't think so again. Would the four and a half thousand young people and young people who are part of the special education programme vote for you? I don't think so either. They would vote for you two and a half million uninsured people to whom you were sending billets while they couldn't go to the hospital, because they paid five and twenty-five euros and went home they found their certified debts? I don't think so either. Will the two and a half million pensioners vote for you who, after eight and a half years, will receive the thirteenth pension, after the catastrophic, huge cuts that have been made by you? I don't think so. Will you be voted on or voted on by the millions of our fellow citizens who in 2016, 2017 and 2018 shared over two and a half billion as dividends and, of course, as part of the overcrowding? I think it's amazing. Would our nine hundred thousand compatriots vote for you who received family allowances increased or increased up to two times? Also, I don't think so. Would the young people vote for you, for which we abolished the minimum wage and reached the minimum wage of EUR 650 of the 480 that you had them? I guess not. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Would the children of deliveries, for example, who were protected by law, not only insurance, not just wages but also on the basis of the protection of their lives? They don't want to see you. Trust me. Would the seven hundred thousands of self-employed people vote on you, for which a huge part of their debt is being written off? And you want to abolish the Katorugalou law on which this deletion is based? One million Greek and Greek women are currently listening to your proposal. You'll vote for the Katorugalou law, you don't want to, but you don't want to, because you never did anything for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Vetta, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u356	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much. I'm just on the average of the rest of the speakers. Would the more than seven hundred thousand self-employed people who have suffered serious reductions in insurance contributions be voted on to you? You won't find their vote. Will the eighty thousand Greeks vote for you tomorrow because of the recalculation by means of the law you want to abolish, will they be retired while they will never be recalculated? I don't think so. Would you be voted on or voted on by thousands of our fellow people, who, through the proposal that we are making and the intervention to extend the time from 14 to 17 years in order to incorporate a thousand characters, will be retired? I see it hard. Will thousands of our compatriots vote for you, who have suffered the suffering of double insurance and have charged them since 2011 with tens of thousands of double-security debts? I guess not. Will the two and a half thousand firefighters you've been cheating on for over fifteen years and have found their permanentization through this government? You'll be looking for them, too. Will the tens of thousands of people, the young children who work today in the municipalities, work today in forest protection, work in public programmes? They won't vote for you either. Or do you think the fifteen thousand teachers will vote for you, who so much need their education system? Finally, Mr President, I will say one thing. We at SYRIZA are quiet. We sleep with open windows and we're afraid of nothing. And I say that, because we have a Prime Minister, but we also have a Minister, and I mean Paul Paul, because he is the one about the motion of censure you have tabled. They are not employed, they are not paid for, they are used, they serve only the interests of the Greek people. For Lamia Hospital, let me have a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Vetta...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u358	Only ten seconds, Mr President, because it is important. Lying to SYRIZA. In fifteen days, Mr. Paulakis will inaugurate the new CT scanner, the new magnetic tomographer, the excellent biochemical laboratory that is one of the best in the country and in which they will come and train doctors from the other hospitals. Liars to SYRIZA who hired twenty-four permanent doctors and twenty-three assistants. We're not liars. Lies are those when they had not given, and when they had excess, they were eaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u359	Good. Mr Economou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u360	The truth is that Mr. Polakis' days and works offer many topics for a motion of distrust on his face. The Kyburopoulou case is really the tip of the iceberg of the troubled Polakis and the Tsipra government. You have chosen to put many issues to the vote of confidence. I see Mr. Paulakis is missing, but he's the other side of the ministry here. To be fair, it's not all his responsibility for the health situation that exists today. If the racing questions of the previous SYRIZA colleague are answered, as to whether all those who have mentioned New Democracy will vote, the answer is yes, they will vote. In a few days' time, you'll be emptying the corner and going back to the margin of politics and I'm afraid of the country's social life. We will perhaps be able to say something more in detail, because I have been responsible together with Mr Fotellas who has been here for the past three years, for following the days and works of the Ministry of Health. SYRIZA's colleagues are reading a non paper that came to them, and they have been put on some chips, which do not bother to verify them. This is where the previous colleague doesn't even know what's going on at the hospital in his area. I am sorry for the Lamia Hospital - which we visited, if you remember, Mr Foyla - and a few days later a small child was lost, because they simply couldn't do a single appendicitis. Anyway. But not focus on Lamia, because it is huge. Deficiencies, inertia, indifference, ideologies. That is what we can say briefly about the dissolved national health system. Listen to see the size of the hypocrisy of the Tsipra government for health. The SYRIZA stateers are supposed to support the social state in the health part. In their days - a budget for 2014 to 2018 the official figures - were EUR 8.5 billion. It's the state grant, the public health expenditure. In other words, in the four years, the gentlemen removed over 4 billion from health to support the primary surpluses. It is EUR 4 billion from the budget! These are data from ELSTAT's health bill system, published on 29-3-2019. I always talk with evidence. Listen to me. How did they do that? Was there a savings and a rationalisation? We had e-prescriptions, healing protocols, patient registers, e-government, evaluation of structures and services, central supplies, health maps? Is that all? Infant level. Nothing's happened to all of this. They've started some because they're monumental obligations. None of this has happened. What did you do? You have fed up the primary surpluses and got the gold medal of private spending in Europe for the Greek household, which again with ELSTAT's figures is 7.5%, when it is 6.5% the international average for private expenditure. Why? In order for the Greeks to find his health and not to wait in queues for the surgery, for the radiation therapy, for the appointment with the doctor, he goes to the private person and touches them well and gold. It is only EUR 6 billion for 2018. We are first in Europe, I always speak in proportion to the population. So who has fed this social state, which has cut it off from public spending? The clawbacks. Those who understand, understand what I mean when I say that the EUR 200 million of 2014 clawback reached EUR 1.2 billion. I think it will reach 1.4 billion euros in 2019. I'm talking about all providers. And I will tell you, Minister, something particularly about the case of your last decisions on the transfer of zero costs or the reduction of the participation in the diagnostic examinations of a large number of insured persons. It's very good, but you dropped it on lab doctors and small or large diagnostic centers. In other words, your social policy is not financed by a surplus that works forward. Exercise it at the expense of the mid - doctor, the mid - doctor, the mid - diagnostic center. Primary health, the so-called TOMY, according to your own perception. This is the biggest fiasco ever could be. Minimum permits. About a hundred in operation, two hundred and fifty TOMY for 30% of the land, without funding anymore and with virtual doctors. You're getting from a farm doctor. We've been to dozens of structures all over Greece. Take from the health centers their doctors go to hospitals, then baptize mental health structures as what you can imagine, so that you present a hundred ten, from what we hear it looks like these units, dissolving the primary health system. You've fired thousands of doctors who were on the EPPY family or specialties. At the moment few people are serving through contracts with EOPY. You deliver health centers, most of which are dissolved. In hospitals, there's a hypotension. In Rhodes, I visited lately, serves 40% of the nursing staff, serves 50% of the medical service. We're talking about hospitals in the district under dissolution. I'm not making any special reference to Lamia, it's been heard before. You can talk today about ranches, which break into hospitals even in Attica. The diamond of the National Health System every four days is swollen by a ranch. Two hundred ranches and more in the papers! Budgets surpluses, he says. Let me tell you something, Minister. When the Court of Auditors came here three months ago and said about unrealistic budgets, namely, virtual budgets, who did the bell ring? For the works and the days, Paulis? To be honest, it's his responsibility and not yours. Therefore, with the virtual budgets you deposit to hospitals, the funding is reduced. Sixty-five million less in 2019 alone, and having put within budgets and insurers and the most deprived and foreigners, while if you want to do social policy, you should further strengthen hospital budgets. Inside these cut-off budgets are you going to do your social policy? And cuts to the EPPY. I'll give you an example, because I told you that the Kymbouropoulos case is just the tip of the iceberg. Do you keep in mind what you've achieved? Other foreign laws, circulars and annexes since June 2018, problematic e-prescription, months delays in diagnostic procedures, reductions in the number of treatments per child, absence of significant diagnostic categories from the last one issued, lack of epidemiological studies for the determination of programmatic needs. You only care about the cuts, and unfortunately from special treatment you have found funds to send to the primary surplus, and you immerse parents, children and therapists in desperation. Tens of thousands of the messages of indignation and the families and the healers with the arrangements you make for the special treatment by EOPYY, and you have the courage to talk about AMEP policy when EOPY has made the biggest cuts in special treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u361	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u362	I shall conclude, Mr President. Impact on public health. I've mentioned it before. It is an element for which, in timely questions, both of Foil and of the Economist, you always react strongly. But we cannot picture the image in public health. For the first time in the country after decades - and I say it again here at the Step forward in Parliament - we had a shrinking of life expectancy and healthy ageing. We have had an increase in the number of chronic diseases other than due to the lack of organised prevention and pre-symptomatic control, and we have had an increase in infant and perinatal mortality. We have had no political intake - you have dissolved the CEDEFOP of course - and weakened the vaccination strategy, which left the country at the mercy of the influenza epidemics, the measles of the Western Nile. We didn't have that five years ago. We are now, unfortunately, champions in this matter too. So - and it is not accidental - part of the overall picture of the state of public health is also the fact of indifference and indifference, which you have shown recently on the issue of public health, after you have lost the large and respected amount of the donation from the Niarchos Foundation. They told you in the papers and in the media for three hundred million of the total donation. It's not three hundred million, it's the part about hospital infections. You returned back to the five million and Paulakis went out and said: 'Okay, for only five million is the talk'. Yes, for five million people who are probably abundant to you when a thousand six hundred fellow people a year have been lost through hospital infections, and that is what you consider to be a minor event and you have no time to deal with. But you find time until morning on facebook to play and seduce opponents, especially Mr. Paulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u363	Finish, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u364	This is the problem, Mr President - and I am closing - of the picture of health. I think that one of the biggest crimes this SYRIZA government has committed is the defect and dismantling of the National Health System. You don't even act like a prisoner. You've been conducting criminal investigations. Inadequacies, inertia, indifference and ideals that at the same time you speak in the name of the state, you have dissolved the state health system and sent people to private individuals. This foreign attitude and politics were enough to make one and ten and twenty motions of censure to Paul. We symbolically chose to focus on his behavior with one of our fellow humans, Kyburopoulos. There should be policies of support not of itself, because it does not need them, but of these people. Not only have you done this but also through your catastrophic health policy, you have brought these thousands of our fellow humans to despair. I think this motion of censure is of great importance because it shows that we are two different cases of the world. Society can't tolerate and accept that there are people who, if you're not with them, go to exterminate you. This attitude and the perception you have, we do not accept it, we are across the street and I think that in a few weeks' time - and after they have voted yes to the dilemmas that Mr Vettas has put before us, because they believe they will find a better prospect with New Democracy - they will be able to launch a new governance that will give a solution to the great problems of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Ioannis Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I am not going to address a number of other issues raised by the JRC Members during the debate with a great deal of competence. I shall refer to a specific development that has been at the European Union's leaders' summit today, today, which, as we know, is May 9, the day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, the defeat of fascism and Nazism with the decisive contribution of the Soviet Union and the Red Army. In fact, some Members and SYRIZA have referred to this day. But on this day what did Mr Tsipras sign up to the European Union's Heads of State from Siberia at the Summit of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union? Note: Declaration by the Siberian European Council. First point: 'We will defend a Europe from the east into the west and from the north to the south. Thirty years ago, millions of people fought for their freedom and unity and demolished the Iron Curtain that had divided Europe for decades. That's what you signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u367	Mercy! That's what you signed with the fascists! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u368	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u369	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u370	This sacred day you signed what has been the crown of anti-communism and anti-communist propaganda for decades! That's what the Prime Minister signed from Romania! We thought that with the SYRIZA Government we had seen it all, and memorial and anti-grass measures and subtractions to American imperialism and buddies with the murderers of the Palestinian people and much more. Finally, it turns out that every time you get over yourself. It turns out that the cataclyst has no end, that the barrel has no bottom. Iron Curtain! Shame on you! It's disgraceful! Ignorance! That's who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u371	Shame on you! It's disgraceful! Beloganne is hitting you, the two executioners of Cesarean, Heidari! Iron Curtain!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u372	You're welcome. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u373	You adopt all the propaganda of imperialism after World War II, the propaganda of Churchill, the propaganda of Truman, the propaganda of macaridism against the struggle of peoples and against the world movement and the socialist system, all the propaganda that has been unfolded at the top of the spear on the far right - and I doubt any other government in recent years has signed something similar. And you signed it! - all the propaganda he sent to prisons, exiles, executive excerpts from our country's fighters in the name of the Iron Curtain. And you signed that! You signed this - we say it again - on the day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, for which the declaration of course does nothing, because fascism is not an opponent of the European Union. The European Union has sometimes supported fascists and similar organisations to play its various games. Opposite are the peoples, the opposition is the socialist system, the opposition is the communist parties, the working people's movement. That is why he tried all these years to erase from collective memory the Day of the anti-fascist victory of the peoples, on 9 May, and turn it into a "European Union Day". And this signature that entered this proclamation by Mr. Tsipras entered with the signatures of Kurts, Orban, Merkel and all the other far-rights you're supposed to fight for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u374	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u375	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u376	And after all this, you have the courage to talk about progress, to speak of progressive alliances, to speak of a forehead against the extreme right. You have the courage to deposit wreaths in Haidari and Cesarean and on the other hand to do raw, miserable, primitive anti-communism. That's who you are! That's who you are! The cataclyst doesn't have the bottom. You have the courage to talk about the European Union, which has allegedly been overrun by its founding values in recent years, and that this outstrip can allegedly be corrected. Here are the European Union's founding values: anti-communism, barbarism, people's exploitation and wars, and that is what you are going to sign. You are all at the heart of the European Union and NATO! It is evidenced by this declaration who is afraid of the European Union. Thirty years later, all of you saying that socialism died, failed, lost, the European Union with this declaration - I am tabling it in the Minutes for it to exist - shows who it is afraid of. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Giokas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The ghost is still deceiving, and we will do everything in our power to make your fears come true. You are on the side of the modern "Jehovah Allies". That's what we're celebrating May 9th. The red flag with the hammerhead in Reichstag. And because the Prime Minister and the government have joined the camp of anti-communism and the counterfeiting of history, we will leave the cabinet a photo to take it to Mr. Tsipras to see what we're celebrating on May 9th.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u377	You're done, Mr. Gioka. I do not see Mr Fokas and Mr Katsiki in the Chamber, so the fifth circle of speakers has been completed. The second day's debate on the Prime Minister's proposal to vote for Parliament's confidence in the government was completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-09-S1-commons.u378	With the consent of the House at 23.06 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 10 May 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: continuation of the debate and vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
