ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Continue the debate on the Government's Programmatic Declarations. The procedure was unanimously adopted by the plenary yesterday. We will start with two colleagues, Mr. Andrianos and Mr. Drasakis. Immediately afterwards I will give the floor to Mr Voridis, who was to speak yesterday, and then we will continue with the rule that we have said, a minister, in order to be able to speak more fellow Members. Begging for the years to come, especially those of the first to come to the Step, because a violation of time means I steal time from the next, with little tolerance. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too wish that this parliamentary term should be with the constructive contribution of all of us productive for our country and society. From this step I would like to thank my fellow citizens in Argolida, and in particular the ten thousand two fellow citizens, each and every one, who by their vote, their support and trust, elected me to the National Representation, and I undertake to keep this mandate to the fullest extent, as I have done in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the recent elections is a major political change. The vote of the Greeks and Greeks gave the country a powerful self-powered government. Parliament's composition reflects the positive prospect of restoring the normality of political stability, the recovery of the economy and society. The responsibility and challenge is for the government and the historical liberal party very much. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, honoring the full tradition of our resignation, did not resort to an election in the easy solution to the promises. We have committed ourselves to concrete measures, measurable and substantiated results, and we must produce them as quickly as possible and more decisively, much more so because of our effectiveness the duration and sustainability of our country's shift towards normality will be judged. Already the Prime Minister announced yesterday the main axes of our policy and concrete measures in key areas of action. In the area of economic and development, he announced concrete measures, including a reduction in taxation and contributions, as we were committed to, which are currently on the table by households, professionals and businesses. It is imperative to create new, real, well-paid jobs, which will come through the release of the creative forces of the Greeks and the encouragement of investment. It is imperative that the development projects and the interventions which had been frozen for five years should be implemented. Here I also convey Argolida's request, according to which works crucial for the development and quality of life, such as the great irrigation of Anavalos, the new safe connection between Argolida and Corinth-Tripolios and Kalamata motorway, the road network, the works at the port and the Nafplio marina, as well as cultural works such as the Archaeological Museum of Argos and Burgis, whether they were frozen by the previous government or faced unjustified delays. It is imperative that the primary sector, the farmer and the farmer whose cost of production is greater than the sales prices of the products should be substantially supported. There is an urgent need for substantial support for tourism and industry in order to compete with the tourist product. Finally, it is now imperative that the state should be resolutely restructured so that it operates effectively as a citizen's helper and not as a force, a state which is flexible and functional that, for example, does not charge the agricultural world with unjustified bureaucratic obligations, free trade, the small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, a state that ensures legality for everyone everywhere without exceptions, without unjustified illegality and infringibility. With its first steps, the new government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy demonstrates our determination to do the great quality change that our citizens need and that our country needs. In the face of sincerity, seriousness, responsibility, efficiency, the conscious pursuit of national unity and collective good we are called upon not only to bring home after ten years of harsh crisis, not only to ensure a greater prospect for society and the national economy, but much more to launch a new historic period for Greece, a new period of regularity, stability and progress, self-confidence and pride for each Greek and every Greek. I am sure that once again the great liberal party will respond successfully to its national duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Ioannis Drasakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I am pleased to be able to address you, ladies and gentlemen. It's just a detail, maybe. Many wouldn't notice, but all these years I couldn't use this term while it was in the Chamber and the Golden Dawn, which is why I was talking about 'Masters, and so on'. I did not do this because I and my children, among other things, were targeted by this step by the leader, in fact, and the wife of the leader of the Golden Dawn, but because all of us may have controversies hard, but no one disputes the physical existence of the other. The Golden Dawn, fascism is based precisely on the physical extermination of the other, which is why there can only be as a criminal organization. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mr Mitsotakis' programme speech and found that he did not have a single word to say about what was the core of his election programme, namely the reduction of surpluses and the achievement of economic growth rates of 4%. I do not know if it is negligence, but this is important because Mr Mitsotakis himself had linked 4% of pensions, incomes, wages. So I hope there will be some clarification in this regard, but I personally did not feel very surprised, because I knew that the reference to this growth rate had no basis. It was an election trick, it was an innocent fraud. - to remember John Kenneth Galbraith's "economics of innocent fraud". By handing the Ministry to the Minister, Mr. Georgiades, I pointed out to him that as long as he searched, he will not find in the drawers of the Ministry of the Harbour investment, nor will he find magical recipes that we had and did not use. I told him, however, that he would find the Ministry of Law Policies and Designs, which, if it goes ahead, can speed up development and even turn it into directions of extroversion, innovation, sustainability and justice. In this context, I would like to make some points today from the Step forward, encouraged by Mr Georgiadis' reaction, who told me that he really does exist and considers it right and will move on. I would therefore like to say, firstly, that you proceed directly to the vote on the bills that we left and which we did not have time to vote on. Go on to vote on the draft law on the upgrading of GEMI, the micro-credits bill, which also relates to the Ministry of Finance, the bill to move from the annual public investment programmes to multi-annual budgets and multi-annual development programmes. Secondly, move on to the implementation of resolutions, and by you, laws of importance, go ahead with the existing planning for the completion of the procedures for the operation of the Development Bank, for the creation of the investment funds on the basis of the communication that is already open and running, of the TANEO. In order to implement the financial instruments designed, Mr Vorides, for the rural world, a contract has been signed for a programme which will give guarantees. I am sure you, too, will proceed with this. I would point out that they are also agreed with the social actors involved and they are waiting for them immediately. I'm coming back to the Ministry of Economy and Development. Proceed directly to the support structure of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have voted on here and has been designed in cooperation with the Chambers, and several other similar measures. Thirdly, proceed with the planning procedures for the new programming period. That's how we'll honor, if that's right, and in 2021. Because the new programming period is precisely for the period 2021-2027, it is practically over the next decade. Take advantage of the circular that we have adopted to the ministries and institutions, focus on their proposals and do, however, a political consultation body, which we also intended to implement, so that the divisions of the new NSRP and the broad guidelines of the country's development that concern the next decade are sought and sought to have the broadest consensus as far as possible. Fourthly, the Prime Minister did not make any mention of the development strategy. But it's an achievement for the country. It is not a party achievement, but it is a collective achievement that our country, after decades of unrealistic and unequal development - and I refer to the period before the crisis - finally has a sustainable development plan, a sustainable development strategy of our own, but also has the consent of the European institutions, which facilitates and creates a basis for dialogue. So do not make the mistake of abandoning, updating it, add your own funds. You have all the right to do it, but don't give up. It would be a regression too seriously. Because the country does not need just faster growth. We had more rapid growth before bankruptcy. The country needs a new production model, which will be extroverted, innovative, sustainable, inclusive, with justice. That is also what the UN' s sustainable development objectives are, which we have taken into account, and which makes me impression that I do not even hear the condition of being mentioned. The UN's sustainable development objectives are not an institutional administrative obligation, but they are an obligation for each country and our country has done a whole study of adaptation to these objectives, which ensure precisely the combination of economic growth, growth, social progress, social policy and ecological protection. This threefold if it is not guaranteed, then there is a risk of returning to situations of crisis. Obviously, we have no illusions, and the people do not have any delusion. The New Democracy is captive of its past, captive of its class preferences and choices, is a commitment of its neoliberal ideological outlets. But, at the same time, many of the bills I have had the honour of bringing to this Chamber and many of the policies that we have put together have also been approved by you. Why? Because they are responses to chronic problems and mature needs of society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why there is the possibility - and we will make use of it - of cooperation and consensus, where necessary but also feasible, but also of uninterrupted confrontation with the issues that divide us. Consensus and cooperation, of course, on the essential condition that you respect the work that we give you. We have received a country in a deadlock and at a cost, delivering a country on a developmental orbit and mainly equipped with an institutional and financial tool ecosystem, which, if exploited, will benefit the people and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr Mavroudis Vorides, Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for twelve minutes, to whom I wish every success in his new duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to wish all my fellow Members a good mandate and say that it is already a very good House and only if you look at its composition. This Parliament begins wonderfully with a strong, clear mandate from the Greek people to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, forming a self-powered parliamentary group, a self-powered government. But what did we hear yesterday, ladies and gentlemen? It was already an interesting tone, I don't know if it's going to continue, because we saw Mr. Tsipras trying to play the leader in charge, and we saw Mrs. Gennamas in a pashion role. We have a reversal of the roles and we'll see if that's going to go on. But we have heard this, the first so-called appeals against our Government for inconsistency and inconsistency on two points are supposed to be inconsistent. We heard it yesterday from the Chief of Officership, Mr. Tsipras. We are, he says, supposedly inconsistent with what we said about the Embassy Agreement. Didn't you follow the election dialogue? Were you with us? Or devastated by defeat, couldn't you hear? We have spoken by pressure from an audience, by citizens who respect their sensitivity and who you have deeply saddened and hurt with the infamous agreement. So when these citizens were electorally pressed, why did they hear populist voices asking us to commit to abolishing the agreement, did you hear what we were talking about? We said: 'This cannot be done', 'This is not going to be done', and 'This is the wrong choice'. We were saying this clearly, by election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u7	For a good cause!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u8	Let go of it! You have called us for inconsistency, when we were electionful on this issue. And what were we talking about? We said: 'This is a bad agreement'. We did everything we could to prevent it, we told you not to do it, we told you that there were adverse, unfavourable consequences from it and we told you that from these adverse consequences we cannot leave. If we dismantle the deal, will Skopje come out of NATO? Of course not. Is the intervening gonna resurrect? Of course not. What's their name? We put these on you. And you come today with enthusiasm and supposedly abandon us for inconsistency, when we have said at the first moment that we will try to defuse the consequences of this unfavourable agreement by linking the Skopje route to Europe with the removal of these unfavourable consequences and the renegotiation on specific points. Didn't we say that, ladies and gentlemen, in an election? Is that why the Greek people did not vote for us? Would you like to come back with us again? We don't mind, you can stay out of it. You have four years to think about all this. But now we're going further. The second one you're supposed to give up on us... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] What do you have today? You have a nervousness and you started early. The second thing you are giving up on us is the issue of surpluses. Question: Have we ever told you that we will follow your 'bariff school' negotiation tactics? So, that we will go on the first day to put everything on the table, because we are supposed to be strong with the mandate of the Greek people - and if we have your support, we have already made progress on this - and so we will go on the first day and bring the reduction of surpluses? Is that what we said? Have you heard what we've said in the election? Face-to-face reforms. Reforms in order to build credibility and with this weapon we will negotiate the reduction of surpluses. Did we say that on the first day we will bring about a reduction in surpluses? There has been a major political change. I understand that it's hard to get together. Not so much because the election result was what it was, but because there has been a very organised campaign for the first time, which has made politically specific issues at issue. Sixteen programming points said Mr.Mitsotakis. Five, six - of these sixteen chapters - specific guidelines for government policy. A hundred guidelines for government policy were analysed, put to the Greek people and adopted. They have set up a case-law and are our government programme. That's what we're talking about today. Listen, what didn't you like yesterday? Of course you did not like the reduction of HISPIA we said. Because we understand that. Imagine having been elected on an agenda that you're going to abolish the ENPIA, four and a half years to have done nothing and the Prime Minister will come in on the first day and immediately reduce the ENPIA for 20%! Imagine going through that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What did you call it? Do you remember that? What did Mr. Tsipras say here? Colleagues older, remember what he called it? 'We will bring you here to vote for one - one'. Well, that's how we're gonna do it. Get ready, one-one you'll vote on. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So in this environment, ladies and gentlemen, we are. I say that all these issues have been made politically on the table. This is a huge ideological political difference that creates conditions of real overthrow. For university asylum, it had been voted again to abolish it in Parliament by a large majority. That's true. Only - be careful - has it never become a political appeal to the elections. Now, university asylum is not abolished by a decision of Parliament, it is abolished by a decision of the Greek people, as is all the points in our election speech. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I say this: Huge differences have happened. We clearly said that we would reduce the tax on businesses. We didn't do it in secret, we didn't say it secretly. We didn't say it low-speaking or rounded. We have said this loudly and clearly, that we want to reduce taxation on business profits and the Greek people approved it. I come to rural development. There was also a clear position that we developed throughout the election dialogue on rural development issues. First of all, since 2017 - you have not been watching them, because you were busy with others - we have tabled full positions on what we are going to do on the part of rural development. One of the sixteen chapters developed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis in election time had four programming guidelines for rural development. These have been approved, of course, along with our overall programme and we are going on with that. What are we talking about? To see the big strategic changes. I read the Programming Declarations made by the then Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostolos. The word 'development' does not exist because there are other priorities. The word 'environment' in those statements does not exist. The word 'intelligent rural development' does not exist. These are things that had never been developed. And here we are in the form of a different strategy. What did the Prime Minister say yesterday? Because I heard you say it wasn't mentioned at all. Talk to the big guy. What's the big deal? The development of the new common agricultural policy at European Union level. That's what will determine in the next few years. And what did he say? The priority it attaches to the negotiation in two directions: firstly, the maintenance of a farm income support scheme. This must continue to be done, we support it and we will support it. Secondly, there is a second major axis which is now about creating a rural development that respects - where is the former Vice-President, Mr Drasakis? - the environment by exploiting new technologies. That's the future, and that's where we're going. However, the European Union's increased environmental ambitions in the part of rural development, which we share and support, clearly cannot be served with reduced budgets. They require the placement and commitment of funds. So that's clear. Like also those commitments, because we are actually talking about funding programmes, we are talking about support programmes which will, however, be linked to such environmental objectives. From this it is clear that we must exclude - and we say so - the small farmers. We don't call it folklore. We say this because small farmers actually only grow 5% of the farm area. The agricultural impact is comparatively small and at the same time the administrative burden is high. In this negotiations, we are also calling for simplification, simplification of procedures in principle. This is something that will be under way and that is what I have already spoken about in the Council of Ministers. These are positions that we will develop further. A second major issue, which is linked to the following. We're talking about growth. We call it that. It is our aim to increase the rural economy. It is our goal that 6% of GDP will grow and, together with the added value given in agricultural products, it reaches the food industry itself, that is close to 20% to 23% of GDP. So this is a big part and we pay attention to why he needs to grow. Are there any other issues we talked about? Sure. We have talked about a new law on the organisation of the world of rural development, essentially the organization of producers. Why do we say that? Because for me there are two issues. One of their institutional representations, in two words, who is the State's interlocutor when it comes to rural development, who is the social partner? This is built on a pathogenous basis, it is something we want to see again and want to see here credible, strong, institutional partner and to speak to the government, but above all so that we can be credible, serious, valid, strong interlocutors at European Union level. That's very critical. The second, however, concerns the organization of producers themselves at production level. Question: Investments will be needed. Who's gonna do it? Who is it that today has the volume, economic power, the entity, in order to manage these investments, as we move on to what we say intelligent agriculture, intelligent rural development, as we move towards rural development that respects the environment, which uses less and smarter fertilisers, which uses less and smarter pesticides? How to proceed to a rural development that respects water management. He'll use less water. How's all this going to happen? That's what they want investments. Who's gonna make these investments? We need producer groups. What did we say and we got an order? That we will see the whole system of production and we will look at bringing in a new law so that we can make it easier. Today we still have problems with legal personality, we have tax issues, we have issues that have not been resolved. What else did we say? The aim of the previous government, and I'm very afraid of many previous governments...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u9	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I shall end in two minutes. I won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u11	You won't have two minutes. You'll be closed. As for the Members, it also applies to the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u12	How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u13	Wait a minute and hang up. It's not going to be an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One last thing: the proclaimed aim of many governments, even more of them: illegal Greekism and mimicism in Greek products. It's a huge issue. It is about the income of producers. I have been listening to this for four years since the previous government, but also - badly lies - by previous governments. Why wasn't that treated? I'm already tracking a series of gaps. Firstly, we need to see again the entire legislative framework, criminal proceedings and penalties, administrative fines and sanctions, other administrative sanctions. Secondly, the audit mechanism has overlap issues, it has issues of inertia, it may have issues of corruption. This is something that needs to be addressed. Thirdly, new technologies have not been exploited in order to deal with this phenomenon. So here you are waiting for systematic and organised action. I want to send out a message clearly and I want to say it so that we can all get together in and out of Athens. We respect the Greek crafts and food industry very much. It's part of our development plan. We want to support her. However, there will be strict compliance with the law, especially as regards illegal Greekism and mimicism. We are all aware that we know. And because we know, I want to say here that we will ask for complete compliance. There will be no discount on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Voridis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u16	I'm ending up with half a word. There is a great deal of talk about the issue of compensation. We've been through disasters. Farmers are right to demand - once the system is compulsory and what they need to pay, this 4% and they pay it - is to get the compensation fully on time. This has not happened. The previous government's programme statements then talked about two years' delays. The delays remain in two years, but the financial data of the ELGA have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u17	Finish it. I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u18	It is something that we are dealing with, as we have been instructed, and with the use of private insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting out loud and a great future awaits the country in the hands of Mr Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u19	To be informed - and I am mainly beginning with the ministerial seats and saying this about the new ministers - I will say this: you will rehearse at home and time the speeches. This is not going to happen again at the expense of the Members. I was saying the same thing and I did the SYRIZA Ministers. The same will happen now. They're Programmatic Declarations, so there's tolerance. It is the government's Programmatic Declarations, which is why the ministers are talking - this is how it has been customary in Parliament over the years - and we will be showing a little tolerance for the ministers. But from now on I want to be clear about the message that I am giving. At the expense of parliamentarians it will not go away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u21	Why, Mr. Velopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u22	For a minute, Mr President, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u23	Good. You make use of the right as President of Parliament, but it should not be abused by the Presidents. I'm not talking about you now. I'm saying it in general. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. One cannot question the rhetoric of the Minister. Of course, I would remind him that when we were together, we were talking about Macedonia and more now. That's not bad. We change our minds sometimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u25	I'm saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u26	I must say, however, to him: will you personally sign the pre-examination for Mr Kotzias, Mr Vorides, since you have loved Macedonia and have been sensitive to the Macedonian, in any case, for twenty years now? The bad texts, Mr Vorides, when you cannot change them, do not ask for the vote of the Greek people, that is to say, you are not asking for a shameful agreement of tolerance even now that you are ruling. You're trying to change them. So either you change them or you go home. It's no different. The betrayal of Macedonia is not a mere betrayal. Other developments are coming. The agreements, Mr. Voridis, are changing. Do you want examples? Jerusalem - Tel Aviv. And the Israelis did well. Their right. Trump - world trade. Urban - Salvini for poachers. If you have the choice, do it. If you're afraid of Americans and Germans, don't. But it's your obligation to tell the whole truth. As for NATO, Mr. Vorides, we were NATO friends. The Skopje weren't. And we were forced by the naval friends to give our national name. That's a crime. I'm closing up, saying it's not bad to change your mind. It's not bad to do a policing ass. It's bad today to say you're telling the truth. And, unfortunately, Minister, you're lying. If you return a little to the past and see what you were saying then and what you are talking about Macedonia, you will see that they have nothing to do with each other. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u27	Mr Vellopoulou, you will address this House. You're not going to make personal reports. That's true for everyone. Just because Mr. Velopoulos spoke, I speak by name. Personal reports create personal issues. I am now obliged to give Mr Vorides the floor for a minute, but I am not prepared to spoil the flow of the debate on the Programme Declarations because we want to make impressions. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u28	I will not speak again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u30	Mr Vellopoulou, may I remind you that I have missed you, that I voted against the agreement. The New Democracy did the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u31	Will you sign for Kotzia?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u32	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u33	Secondly, because I know well legally, I know what the last betrayal is. So you can read these again. Not to me, then. Thirdly, the position of the New Democracy is clear and consistent from the beginning to the end - and I tell you again to digest it - and this was judged by the Greek people. You were asking for the cancellation. What did you get? You got 3%. We have said that cancellation, as we have been trapped by this disgraceful agreement, will lead to even worse and worse results. What do you say? That yes, we will try to defuse the consequences of this bad agreement. Doing what? Coming up and reaching the line...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u34	Close, Mr. Voridis. There is a Foreign Minister who will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Voridis, close immediately!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u37	This attitude has been adopted by the Greek people, we will take this attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u38	We're done. The next four colleagues: Mrs Dionysia Agerinopoulou, Mr Skourletis, Mr Vlassas, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou. Mrs Agrinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking my fellow citizens at the Elias Prefecture once again for their vote. I hope I'm worthy of their trust. I also hope that we all have a good and constructive term for the benefit of the Greek people. Our work this time is important, primarily because we will be called upon to exercise the highest legislative power, namely to revise the Constitution, but also because we will be given the opportunity to legislate on a number of issues and to lead our country back to growth and normality. Our aim should be to lead our fellow citizens to the exit from the deadlocks brought to them by the country's previous governance. Today the Greeks can be optimistic again. A new page has already begun for our country, as, as we learn from the Programming Declarations, a programme of development and good governance is beginning to be implemented quickly, efficiently and rationally. The country's Prime Minister, inspired by the principles of good governance, good fiscal policy, liberal and social policy, at the same time, summarized the government's programme in his speech, aiming at strong growth in a self-powered Greece, a Greece that finally exploits and relies on its own powers. Strong growth is based on the growth of enterprises through the reduction of business tax, support for their liquidity and regulation of red loans and other debts, and new, additional jobs will be created to tackle the long-term unemployment that is stirring up our many fellow citizens today. The reduction of income tax and other tax reliefs, which are already starting in 2019, are measures that will give our fellow citizens a breath, but in the local and national economy. Support for family and socially vulnerable groups and strengthening health and education is at the heart of our social policy. In order to raise our economy, we will emphasise, among other things, agricultural and livestock production, which, as we have just heard, aims to strengthen agricultural incomes with respect to the natural environment and to exploit high technology, but also to tourism. In order to strengthen, however, tourism in areas such as Western Greece, we must complete our transport infrastructure. For Elia it is an absolute priority to complete the construction of the Olympia Road, Patras - Tower and the improvements of the Tower - Good Water. I would remind you that in 2014 we had legislated on the completion of the Olympian road and set a legal timetable for its completion in time. Instead, however, the SYRIZA government has decided to take the road that we had opened for it and to finish the work at its specified time, and it has decided to break the project into eight subcontractors and the four of them will go to the "TOXOTIS" company of Mr. Kalogrica. This company has so far failed to respond to the work it has undertaken and the construction of the road has not even begun. The entire operation of SYRIZA government to give its subcontractors its subcontractors, resulted in four years of delays for this great public project, so vital for the development of western Greece and Elias. It also jeopardised and financed the project by the European Commission. Mostly, however, it puts tens of our fellow citizens at risk who travel daily at risk of accidents on this road. However, infrastructures are also essential for environmental protection and for the production of renewable energy sources. Our priorities are the depopulation and restoration of natural ecosystems, the definitive resolution of the management of all types of waste, an increase in the energy balance of renewable energy sources, so as to obtain cheaper and cleaner energy and a definitive end of energy poverty in Greece in 2019, but also to move on to a low-carbon economy and to tackle climate change more effectively. The main aspect and a sign of high environmental sensitivity is the ban on unpurpose plastics in our country since 2021, which the Prime Minister announced and which will also be accompanied by appropriate measures to prevent workers from being hurt, but to have a so-called fair transition to another type of work. And because, before Mr Drasakis said that the New Democracy and its programme are not based on the objectives of the UN, I would like to tell you that this is the fulfilment of the UN target 14. However, the New Democracy programme meets the fourteen of the seventeen objectives of the UN. The other three will be filled. The UN's seventeenth objective refers to funding, and the New Democracy creates a stable tax environment, simplify the licensing procedures and generally reduce bureaucracy, so that we have more funding for sustainable and environmentally responsible investments in the country, just as the UN targets set. In conclusion, we should give absolute priority to infrastructures related to the prevention and response of natural disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, we must invest, as a matter of priority, throughout the country in these infrastructures, so that we do not again live another Mandra and another Eye in our country. Safety, therefore, with all dimensions, from the daily lives of the citizen to the protection of our borders and the management of immigration, as well as the improvement of our country's international position, must be among our priorities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These priorities are similar to the expectations of the Greeks. I am convinced that the present government will respond to the legitimate expectations of the Greek people. That is why I am voting in favour of the Programmatic Declarations and I am voting for the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u40	Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I too should like to present my best wishes so that the work of this new period will be well done. Of course, wishing is not enough. We also need to make the right choices to have good results. I am going to change the order of what I wanted to say, because I want to start with a reference to what Mr Vorides said. Besides, he knows that I have a special political weakness for him and I'm watching him. Mr Vorides, I have listened to you and then to the dialogue you had with Mr Velopoulos. It is not surprising that Mr Velopoulos moves you to the finger, because when we discussed the Prespecies Agreement, the great majority of your Members were on a track of places that this agreement is treacherous. You have opened up to these extreme right-wing, patriotous sermons now heard at the beginning of the new parliamentary term on the way with your attitude. So, instead, now - and I see that you are after the elections grounded and realistic and you are in the line of supervision, so that this agreement can be applied literally, which, if you have not read it, we are willing to tell you both the fine letters and help you to implement this agreement - first of all apologise to the Members of the Greek Parliament who, with your encouragement, have been attacked by their homes and especially by the Greek people, who have been divided on the basis of an ethno-social approach, based on a patriotian rhetoric, you come here and say: 'It is no good. That's what we said in an election. For a few votes or more! This shows how destructive you, you, are, the so-called quotation of the great national ideals. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u42	Lucky persecutors?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, do not revolt and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u44	A little respect for the party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I ask for your protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Andriane, not even the things that are heard from here are pleasurable. Is that what we're gonna do now? We're going into each other's minds, what do we want to hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u47	Be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u48	I hope time doesn't count the time when I'm being interrupted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u49	Fifteen seconds have interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u50	I'm asking for the fifteen seconds. I'm not asking any more. So I heard the Prime Minister yesterday in his programme reports, and I would like to focus on a number of points, since it does not allow for more time. I want to stand by what he said about PPC, about the energy field in particular. Election obsessively presented a plan obsolete, 2014. Fortunately, this has not been presented today in the same way, despite the fact that there are some suspicious and dangerous silences. It was the well-known project of "little" PPC, which, fortunately, we abolished, which operated in critical periods, so that this company would acquire a strategic national planning, invest in renewable energy sources, which you forgot and left this space empty, that is, the sector of PPC's investment. Why did you leave him empty? To cover some private interests, even though it is the most profitable, the most dynamic sector of investment in energy production. So there was no planning, there was an abandonment of the island's electrical connections, and that is precisely what this current regime is burdening the so-called 'HGO', the services of general interest. So, in the name of "small" PPC, a disastrous policy that has fortunately never been implemented. And you come now and say that the solution is to privatise the networks. What networks? The IPTO, which is a unique example of a public dynamic business in Europe, which implements the largest Attica - Crete electricity interconnection project, which has been associated with the Chinese company that holds 24%, that is, has a strategic ally and maintains public control? But you know what? And to restore the plan of privatization of IPTO, it has nothing to do with PPC because it has been separated. In fact, you will not be able to put these into debt too, because they are no longer in the HIAD. And that's what our government has done. And today there has been a reference point for this project in relation to the high-voltage networks. Is this about the TEN, about the medium- and low-voltage networks in the cities? But that's exactly the big challenge for the public business. To be able to invest in this area. So remember what you did. We received a company that had uploaded the tariffs from 2010 to 2015 by 60%. We have had the most expensive domestic current in Europe and the second most expensive in industrial current. And you have done it for the cost of business, you who are cut off for the small and medium-sized strata. Ladies and gentlemen, you referred before - Mr Voridis and you and the Prime Minister - to matters relating to self-government. In fact, you talked about HISPIA. Of course, I would remind you that there is already a voted and implemented reduction in HISPIA from the previous government. We'll see exactly what you'll bring us. But what you're saying is you're transferring this tax to self-government. That is, you will reduce him, transfer him to self-government, which has no tax authority, and it is unconstitutional and you will cut off from central self-resources. In other words, you will reduce subsidies to self-government. This, in combination with one to five, so what does it do? He condemns self-government. It creates and inspires two speeds in the poor regional municipalities, which are two thirds of the country and which have no real estate in their place to receive the relevant revenues, and favours the large municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u51	You condemned self-government...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u52	And most of all: in the area of self-government, if what you are preparing is to turn the mayor from an executive body into a decisive body, you are squeezing the Constitution and, above all, you are undermining a deep democratic division, that of mere analogy, which, of course, you have never believed, because your perception of self-government is that it is the long hand of the state. You are deeply detained, so you would never bring in a reform here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the elections, SYRIZA will be worthy of the vote and of the mandate he has given from the people. It will stand ignorant throughout this neoliberal counter-reformation and will try to organise a new social alliance between the world of wage labour, the weak, the small and medium-sized strata, precisely because it believes in a Greece where the needs of the many will be a priority and not the needs of the few and the powerful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr Constantine Vlassis, Member of the Arcadia Parliament, is called on in Stepma and you are even re-elected. Here, Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really beyond Mr Skourleti's splittling speech two weeks after the elections. As if you really lived, Mr. Skourletis, in a parallel universe. You don't understand that the people condemned you? Clearly, we are proud of the vote on the Prespecies Agreement. You must apologise to the Greek people and that is why the Greek people condemned you two weeks ago! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you do not understand, in the elections on 7 July the Greek people were clearly placed. He gave the New Democracy a clear self-reliance and chose Mr Mitsotakis as Prime Minister. However, in addition to their confidence in our prolongation, the Greeks expressed their confidence in our Programmatic Declarations and in the general programming speech of the New Democracy. We have early made sure that we communicate our costly and studied programme to the citizens, who have recognised that this is a realistic and practicable programme, a programme that had no electoral objectives, but aimed at and directly at the root of the problems facing our country. Today I am not going to focus much on the damage caused by the SYRIZA government in our country, nor on what it has failed to resolve. After all, if I were to point the finger at the previous ones, I would go against the very essence of the New Democracy Programmatic Declarations that are Programmatic Declarations of Vision and Hope. We knew our work would be difficult. We know that at this time the country's governance is a particularly difficult task, but if it succeeds, it will be the most important legacy for future generations. Because, ladies and gentlemen, our task is not simply to manage Greece's finances in a better way, but to change it in all areas, to turn a page and bring our country where it deserves it. Our aim is to give the Greeks their lost pride. Our aim is a modern state, a state that will progress and prosper with all its citizens as a priority, because we will remain firm in what we have said and in the election, how united we can govern with all Greeks and all Greeks. Our priorities are well known. But you will allow me to dwell on some basic points. The first priority is growth, a strong growth that will bring thousands of new and well-paid jobs. How will this be achieved? With the attraction of new investments, by simplifying procedures, but also with a new tax framework that is stable, with reduced taxes and contributions. One first picture you took from our Prime Minister yesterday. Most importantly, however, it will be achieved through the full restoration of the image and credibility of our country at global level, because the main problem over the years has been that no one has trusted our country as an investment destination. Our second priority is education. This will also be the largest internal investment of the Government of New Democracy. Because if we do not invest in children and young people in our country, then the future is a pitiful one. We will approach the field of education without ideological claws, but also without forgetting the history, tradition and values of our nation. We will prepare our children for tomorrow's world by investing in a modern and upgraded public education. We will ensure that our universities become spaces for the promotion of knowledge and research. That is why we are moving forward immediately in the abolition of asylum. Third priority, our health space. The reasons are obvious. Neither the image of public health structures nor the level of services provided is acceptable, despite the costly efforts of health personnel. That is why we are directly on the recruitment of two thousand nurses and on the cover, in four years, of all empty organic posts. Our efforts in the field of security will also be of corresponding importance with the immediate creation of top-level C security prisons, with the reintroduction of the DELTA team and the strengthening of the DIA group. Thousands of five hundred policemen are recruited directly, and this makes sense to safety everywhere. And with regard to the major and current issue of PPC, which directly affects my law and your prefecture, Mr Skourletis, in Arcadia, I really regret that I heard Mr Tsipras just yesterday talking about short-term problems. Is the current problem, Mr Skourletis, the fact that PPC's share in the last four and a half years, up to the European elections, has been reduced by 83%? May I remind you that the sworn accountants PPC put in, spoke of a huge problem of viability? Even now, are you talling the Greek people? We have reached the point that PPC, which had continued profitability, should be loss-making and enters continuously. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u55	Finish, Mr. Blassy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u56	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u57	Not PPC, speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u58	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll be done. We have a historic opportunity before us to build a country as we dream of it and as we would like to deliver it to our children. For our part, as a government, we promise that we will work hard to achieve this goal. However, we would also like you to support the decisions which you consider to be of benefit to our country and citizens in practice. After all, as Members of Parliament for the past four and a half years, every time a bill with a positive sign came in Parliament, we voted unaware of micro-political aspirations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u59	Finish, Mr. Blassy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u60	Two phrases, Mr President. In battle for the good of Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Vlassy, would you like me to turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u62	...there are no winners and no losers, and, believe me, no one is spared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u63	The first cycle closes with Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, a newly elected colleague from the Change Movement, which I call on Step and wish her a good term. Immediately afterwards, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will take the floor. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of the national elections marks, as every clear mandate for self-reliance in a party, the passage to a new political period, with its own characteristics and new challenges for the country and for society. Our assessment is that the response to the problems brought to the country by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government does not change from a self-sustaining New Democracy which will generally continue the same economic policy as so many sufferings in the middle class and the economically weaker ones. We still believe that in order to change Greece and move towards progress, a programme of major progressive changes and reforms must be implemented for the benefit of all the social classes, especially the weakest and most dramatically affected by the crisis in recent years. In listening to the government's programming statements, we are obviously referred to most of them in a classic conservative policy, adapted to some extent to the current data. Reductions in taxation announced are not enough to change the landscape in the economy and, above all, do not remove unbearable burdens from the middle class and from the economically weaker. The main condition remains for the renegotiation of the huge primary surpluses that if not achieved, the country will not breathe. This is something that needs to start immediately and not in a long time, as the Prime Minister said yesterday in the House. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you will continue to tighten the dolphin in the neck of the Greek people that the former government first put. The country needs to develop, with investment, with tax relief, with a reduction in insurance contributions, with accelerating licensing procedures, with a brave Public Investment Programme. That's the only way we'll have quality jobs. Only then will we be able to have a strong social state that can have quality public education and public health services for all Greek citizens without exception. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement, and I personally as responsible for justice, put as our main project the welcome acceptance of any Programming Declaration, which will put the citizen ahead and prove how we modernise in every area which was cancerous to the detriment of the Greek state. We have heard the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations and especially on the question of justice. Unfortunately, no proposal has been made for the integration of the mediation process into justice anywhere. Since the beginning of the court year the compulsory mediation in specific cases has been pending. What about this loose end? SYRIZA proceeded on the last day before the dissolution of the House, in the resolution of the new Criminal Code, and thus created serious problems and many questions. There has been serious work on the initiative of PASOK for many years now by the Legislative Committee, but because of SYRIZA's haste and ideology there is a series of very problematic provisions. We need to look at all this in a scientifically documented and politically sober manner. Changes must be made that do not allow the release of unrepentant terrorists or favoured treatment of convicted criminals in serious cases. The Prime Minister also mentioned the promotion of a special section. The original intention is correct, but it requires a reform of the judicial conscience. It makes no sense for a modernised judicial system with unskilled applications. The aim of the Change Movement is to create an enlarged Justice Observatory. Our wish is to reconstitute the statistics of justice, which the PASOK has established. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I stand positively in the application of the practices of the courts in electronic form. But that is not enough. The proposal to introduce all court procedures in electronic form through the ‘e-justice’ has been signed by the proposal PASOK since 2011. We finally invite you to complete it. Finally, the Change Movement insists on the need for a worthwhile choice of justice. Our aim is to protect the neural area of justice from party influences. For us, the policy of modern justice has the primary objective of speeding up its award and is based on the following axes: modern basic legislation, alternative dispute resolution, electronic justice, effective legal assistance for our weak fellow citizens. Of course, we want a modern country judicial map in order to design the judiciary in terms of modern judicial planning, to become a 'Kallikrater' for justice. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the government's programming declarations do not respond in a credible way to the major problems that still afflict our country. They are not the headline of a comprehensive reform plan that can radically reverse the downward trend in recent years. That is why we are voting against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u65	The State Secretary for the Interior Mr Theodoros Lebanon has the floor. Before taking the floor, I would like to tell you that after that, ladies and gentlemen Zetta Makri, Efi Ahtsoglou, Sophia Vulture and Mr Christos Katsotis will follow. In fact, because there is one colleague left to complete the first cycle, instead of four Members, there will be five, namely Mrs Maria Athanasios, to close the first cycle. The floor will then be held by Mr Gerasios Thomas, Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, could I please have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u67	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u68	I would like to point out that there was an agreement that, when they were speaking to members of the government, there would be an adjustment to the list and the next speaker would be from the opposition. I would therefore like to ask you to do that. After Mr Voridis he did not intervene, because I did not think it was appropriate, but it would be right to follow it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u69	That's right, that's right. So instead of Mrs. Macrey, Mrs. Ahtsoglu will speak and then Mrs. Macrey will follow. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address you, at our National Representation, as State Secretary for the Interior. The political change which took place on 7 June opens a new perspective for the country. We have a series of challenges ahead of us, which we must tackle successfully. We do not have the luxury of time, nor do we have the possibility of looking elsewhere. It is time for the big decisions. We must ask ourselves whether we are going to move forward in self-reliance or are going to be constantly living the vicious cycle of the crisis, with dependencies and a commissionership. The answer to us is obvious. Our decision is to look ahead and move on a new road, with the sole aim of the public interest, the interests of the citizens. In this way, local government can and must have a leading role. We envision a modern self-government capable of being next to the public, having the appropriate tools to make its life better, a self-government with a leading role both in Greece and in Europe, with guarantees of transparency, accountability to the public and, of course, respect for public money. In order to do this, it needs a specific strategic plan, which will address the problems that have been accumulated and because of the crisis. The government will move on three lines with clear and clear timetables. Axle one, radical redesign of procedures. I know a lot of people have tried it before. Some have taken a step further, some have been disappointed and abandoned the effort. Our central philosophy is to see each philosophy individually whether it is about the internal functioning of a municipality or a region or about contact with the citizen and business. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance we use modern technologies to overcome obstacles. Our ally is the civic register, which contains full demographic and registration data. I find it incomprehensible today, in 2019, to demand that the citizen produce certificates that the state itself can produce directly in electronic form. As far as local government and the public sector are concerned, the citizen will cease to be the clerk of the state. We must make citizens' lives better, everyday life easier. This is our guide and with him as a common denominator we will go. It is also incomprehensible to need dozens of signatures of service agents, heretics, state officials to conduct a simple tender. It is also a common assumption that corruption is hidden in bureaucracy. It cannot go on and this situation cannot continue. Secondly, the redistribution of powers between government, decentralised administrations, regions and municipalities, based on the principle of subsidiarity to the citizen and to be clear, obviously, by transferring the corresponding resources as required by the Constitution. At some point we must decide what the state is doing, what the municipalities must do, what regions must do. We have a great deal of experience to assess what went well in previous years and what did not. Multi-level governance is a continuous process, which is planned, implemented, evaluated and corrected continuously. This institutional reform aims to reorganise responsibilities, but at the same time also to redefine the relations between the various levels of government, with the ultimate aim of decentralising effectively. The possibility of creating vertical and horizontal cooperation structures shall be strengthened. Vertical structures which will include the partnerships of different levels of government - municipalities or regions - as well as horizontal ones which create strong inter-universal or regional partnerships, with the aim of strengthening efficiency, the use of human resources, strengthening transparency and ultimately the provision of quality services to all citizens. We are aware of the problems that exist, which must under no circumstances be underestimated or ignored. The lack of proper planning and the lack of a structured operational plan may lead to the desired results. The environment around us is changing and the public administration must be constantly adapted. And, of course, none of this can be done without the active involvement of all the institutional interlocutors and, of course, of the society itself, from each and every public official to the institutions of self-government and, of course, from the citizens. We have a great opportunity to move forward with a comprehensive, holistic reform throughout the whole range of public administration and to use every financial instrument - particularly European resources - to support it. That's what we're gonna do, that's what we're going to do, that's our goal, and in that, in this great effort, we want you to love each other. Third, primary and secondary administration acquires a clear, solid legislative framework. We have an obligation to proceed with the drafting of the new Single Code of Government. At the moment we have this paradox: the Code of Municipalities and Communities of 2006 applies in part to the "KOLIKRATS" of 2010, the "CLITHENIS" of 2018 applies, and in the meantime, a thousand amendments have been made in the meantime. This makes the work of all of us and the elected ones difficult. In this context, immediately after the new code has been drawn up, a dedicated Internet portal will be set up at the Ministry of the Interior, which will be posted, codified and aggregated all the legislations either primary or secondary, relating to self-government. I am personally in favour of maintaining what has been done in previous years and I object to a study being rejected, depending on who has done it or which party it comes from. However, we must intervene directly in the problem that has been created by the application of simple proportional treatment to the municipalities and regions. As required by the Constitution and the case law of the Council of State, the State must ensure the smooth functioning of the municipalities. Local government cannot be a field of experimentation. The previous government ignored that in self-government, apart from the municipal council, strong mono-faces are elected directly by the people, with great legalisation, the mayor and the district ruler. And to make this clear, I say: The interventions that will be made will strengthen the role of the municipal councillor, and obviously neither will the mayor have overpower nor will he be a quasi-corporate. [[At this point the word bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time is ringing.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. I'm asking for your tolerance. At this point I would like to make a small reference to the vote of the Greeks who live abroad and are registered on the electoral lists. It is a commitment by the Prime Minister and the Government to come a draft law soon which will enable them to vote from their home place. It is the least we can do, and I am sorry to say it, but we are the only country in Europe - together with Albania - that we do not provide this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that it is in the immediate plans to come up with a law on parties' finances, which will strengthen transparency and public accountability and modernise the 2002 law on the terms and conditions of the election campaign, which has been overcome by the rapid invasion of technology in our lives. I want to assure you that the Ministry of Interior will be at your disposal for all of you to deal with any problem with local government. I am always open to dialogue and to proposals that can make your life better. And of course I will always be here, whenever necessary, to listen to your criticism of parliamentary control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u71	In the light of Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou's correct remark, I invite Mrs Efi Ahtsoglou, a SYRIZA State MEP at Step. Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister in the government's planning announcements said that the first days of governance constitute the preface of its political capital and also said that there is no ideological sign in these first acts of the government, except the element of efficiency. Indeed, the first actions of the government and the persons who compose it have given a very clear signal about the work it intends to carry out, a very clear sign of this government, but also a very clear, very clear ideological sign. First of all, the coordination of the government's work was entrusted to the former Director-General of BSE. And I wonder: isn't this a move with a clear ideological mark? Is it not BSE that which has been firmly opposed and opposed, in a clear ideological direction, to any measure that strengthens the position of workers, whether this is about increasing the minimum wage, whether it relates to sectoral collective agreements or about the rules on time and overtime? Isn't that a move with a clear ideological mark? Is it not by chance that at the same time, shortly before the BSE appealed to the courts against a decision of the previous SYRIZA government to increase wages at the base of three years? Isn't that a move with a clear ideological mark? Second move, in the ministerial positions, is returning officials - Mr Brutsis, Mrs Cherlinaki - who were in the government who has turned out unemployment to 28%, youth unemployment to 60%, which has reduced the basic salary, which has introduced the underpaid wage, to abolish the basic principles of collective bargaining. Isn't that a move with a clear ideological mark? At the same time, as a Qualified Opposition, these same persons considered that all these actions recommended reforms to take the country's development ahead. Third move with a clear ideological mark: The first acts of the Government include the degradation of the Labour Inspectorate by a Special Secretariat to a simple Directorate of the Ministry of Labour. Isn't that a move with a clear sign? Is this not a move that undermines a control mechanism in an institution, essentially in a bureaucratic structure within the Ministry, which abolishes its autonomy, which does not allow the audit body to do its planning, to have the initiative of its movements and does it not finally give a very clear signal about how the new government intends to deal with infringement in the labour market? Fourth move with a clear ideological mark in the area of social security: In recent years the new leadership of the Ministry of Labour has been engaged in a dispersal of false news, which, incidentally, all of which is intended to undermine the public social security system. False news first: The new Minister of Labour says that the pending pension applications are four hundred thousand. The funds themselves are falsifying him. In the data they give at the end of June they say that the late retirement applications are 100 thousand and, in fact, they say that they are reduced by 71% of what was delivered to us in early 2015, in the previous government, the ones that Mr Brutsi had handed over to us. I am presenting for the Minutes the evidence confirming these figures I have just said. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second false news relates to widow's pensions. And here he did not protect his Prime Minister either and made him say the increase in widow's pensions as an announcement of his own government. It is known that - and we have no goldfish memory, that was three months ago - increases in widow's pensions and other positive arrangements were made by the previous government. The government of SYRIZA recommended them, the parliament voted in favour. It was already known that, in order to pay for these increases, a computer system would have to be built, and it had been specified that these increases would be made, that is to say, at the end of July. What exactly does Mr Mitsotakis and the new government premise as his own work? At the same time, another false news, Mr. Brutsi, says that these widow's pensions should be increased are about a hundred thousand. I am once again presenting for the record the elements of the Single Social Security Agency, which says that these are fifty-seven thousand. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The fifth and most worrying thing - it is not an act, it is a omission in reality - is the question that this entire dispersion of false news about the public social security system is aimed at. It is ultimately the question of what the New Democracy's plan for insurance is. We've called on her too many times to explain and present her plan clearly. Because Mr Vorides said before that, with absolute clarity in her positions, the mandate was given to the New Democracy. So why doesn't she say what her plan for insurance is? Why doesn't he explain to the citizens? Why doesn't he tell freelance professionals, for example, how to pay contributions? They will pay on the basis of their real income, as we did, so were nine out of ten to pay about EUR 200 a month? Will they pay on the basis of the old system of classes? Aren't citizens entitled to know this data? And the last one. The Prime Minister yesterday spoke of limited, very short in relation to his election announcements, tax reliefs in 2020. But he said he would meet the targets of the primary surpluses of 3.5%.This means that the government should find about 1.8 billion in 2020 to make its tax relief. Where exactly will he get these from? Is it by chance that the relevant Minister for Social Solidarity at the same time says that he will 'ordinary' - in the language of those who have negotiated with the IMF, rationalisation means cuts - social benefits? What exactly does he intend to do with it? Are citizens not entitled to know exactly what is going to be cut and when and why? All this, therefore, - and because the New Democracy is very often familiar with the word of security, it considers that it can only speak about security - it is a picture of enormous and generalised social insecurity, which cannot be perpetuated. The worker cannot know today if his rights are violated, where he will be directed and who will be protected. The free professional can't know how he'll pay contributions tomorrow. She can't know a family if tomorrow she'll cut off her family allowance. These are all issues that make up a picture of generalised social insecurity, and for them the new government must be clearly placed. For our part, we have said that we will be against any action, any action which will in any way undermine the rights and income of workers, pensioners and the unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u73	We're coming back to normal. The New Democracy MEP from Magnesia Law, Mrs Zetta Makri, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. With origin from western Macedonia, I think I am obliged to say that any reference to the New Democracy, from anyone else, for the Prespecies Agreement is abusive, that is, it is arrogant and arrogant. That's enough! Enough populism, enough distortion! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the verdict of the Greek people from which the composition of the National Representation has emerged clearly and rigorously showed the way we all have to follow. He indicated or better he indicated priorities, gave a strong answer disapproving demagogy and violent behaviour and welcomed practices and policies in the light of quality, style and morality, sent multiple messages. The recent verdict, ladies and gentlemen, has shown a reality, a necessity, a great truth. The citizens are asking all of us to start immediately, without populism, delays and retreat, with determination, once and for all, a series of reforms. And I am pleased that the government has shown forward inconsistency in its tax programme. It was faster on reductions. Isn't that, Mrs. Ahchioglu, a move with a clear social mark? I am pleased, as the former Secretary of Equality, to move the Secretariat, because the woman is not only a victim of violence, she is mainly a development factor, Madam President of KINAL. Isn't that, Mrs. Ahchioglu, a move with a very clear development message? A key pillar of these reforms, which is crucial to the quality of democracy and to the effective and representative functioning of our political system, is the redesign of a rule of law, modern and effective, a state based on e-government, evaluation and merit, a state that has as its main priority the security and quality of services in health and education, a state that is not afraid to expand its cooperation with the private sector, a state that is strong, but also with a role of effective and regulatory, which is resistant to ideologies and promotes growth with serious investments that will create many new and well-paid jobs. This is the central message of the elections, that is the great truth that cannot be overlooked, none of those who know how to listen to society and respond to it in terms of truth, clarity, design, efficiency, self-criticism and credibility. Another equally basic pillar of these reforms is the reintroduction of the feeling of the certainty and security of citizens in homes and neighbourhoods, in their work and in daily travel, in all their activities. The main priority is to return to normality, with efficiency and determination, through the strict application of the legislation, in order to put an end to the abattoirs and any acts of deterioration or even total destruction of public and private property. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July the citizens selected and trusted Kyriakos Mitsotakis as their mandate and guarantor to launch a major reform project that the place needs to progress forward after ten years of economic crisis, morality and institutionalism. He gave the mandate for this great task to all those who in the past have shown that they are moving more in practice and less in the words, which in practice have shown that they do not jeopardise homeland, which are not being taken away from the objective of developing social cohesion, who know how to turn the programme into a work and efficiency, which do not deviate from the awkwardness of the powerless obsession that is afflicting those who are trying to exist without a clear and honest relationship with society. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, must not remain entrenched both at national and local level. Opportunities should be given to the citizens of the Greek province, especially the least privileged, to claim with claims and to reshape their future. With regard to my prefecture, the Magnesia Prefecture, and above all, but not only its capital, the city of Volos, which has been unindustrialised, new businesses should be encouraged to use the existing infrastructure for their development, to improve the business environment with the ultimate aim of creating and sustaining thousands of young and well-paid jobs for young people, the few workers and the long-term unemployed and the gradual ending of the implementation of passive employment policies. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] At one time the port of Volos was an extremely serious economic arm and must be exploited, played a decisive role in the development of the maritime transport system in our country, in promoting the development of the blue economy and maritime tourism, in meeting the transport needs of the Sporades people in conditions of free and healthy competition. The road network of Pelion must be repaired, its mountainous volume exploited, the areas of natural beauty, the architectural heritage, the special nature of traditional settlements. For agricultural and livestock products, which are of high quality, I shall make a reference, not in detail, because the Minister, Mr Vorides, spoke very thoroughly. We should invest in new ways of rural development, sustainable and environmentally friendly, to strengthen food safety, women's entrepreneurship in this area, to invest in green and intelligent agriculture, investments that will save water, to reduce the use of pesticides, to monitor systematically the qualitative change of soil. We should start over, cover the lost ground, not fight backs. We should develop political reforms on five clear principles: Religion, efficiency, cooperation, transparency, simplification. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In closing and repeating the Prime Minister's suggestions in his first speech to us Members of Parliament, given his direction - in fact, and less in words, with the political will of our own majority, one of the strongest of the last few decades, to make substantial public interventions, namely parliamentary and government work, which revolves political ethos, to serve democracy with a new quality, to continue the fight against populism, to make this House the best of post-collection for the new government the most effective, I call on you to vote for, support, approval, confidence in our clean programme that we will implement in the difficult, but full of opportunities for four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u75	Ms. Sophia Vultesis, Member of the New Democracy, South of Athens, has the floor. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today I have come to Parliament determined to speak of two modern propaganda myths that have been created over the last two weeks. However, I cannot resist the temptation in relation to what was preceded by the Prespecies Agreement and Macedonia. I'm not actually going into it. I have personally dealt with the issue of preventing this agreement. However, I would like to make a friendly advice to Mr Velopoulos and to his party: to tell him that before him there were at least two other parties in this Chamber who followed this very tactic that shows that he wants to follow today, Mr Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u77	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u78	All right to the party. He's the party leader for this, I'm not talking about a mere congressman. So they tried to convince the previous ones that they had the monopoly of love for their homeland. These two parties have disappeared, because the people have the instinct of distinguishing the real patriotism from patriotism. A friendly advice, if you intend to follow this same fate: You can continue. The road is the known one. Now, with regard to the two propaganda myths: the first is that the Prime Minister took over the ERT, the EIA and the EPA. There has even been a defamatory question from members of the SYRIZA to the Commission. Excuse me, are you saying all this to Mrs Gennimata and Mr Tsipras and all of you, while you know that the competences of the Prime Minister stem from the Code of Legislation for the Government and the Governmental Institutions, that the Prime Minister takes them from the people who vote for him? Then how does he appoint Ministers, how does he reconstitute Ministries, how does he assign all tasks, to Ministers, Deputys, State Secretarys, if he does not have competence? The Prime Minister has responsibility for the entire public sector. And you know, very well that ERT is a public company, the RES is a public limited company with only one shareholder, the public administration, the General Secretariat, we are not discussing. So who would like to have supervision of compliance with the laws? Not for control of content, as was done in the previous government, and we all remember it, even with personal specifications within the ERT. So let us be answered by Mr Tsipras when he commissioned the Secretariat-General and the public service broadcasting from where he was responsible and transferred it from? Has he brought her home responsibility for ERT and the General Secretariat? And let Mrs. Gennimatas answer when Mr. Papandreou commissioned the Secretariat and the RES and Mr. Hughes to the ERT, where did Mr. Papandreou have the responsibilities and transferred them? Had he brought them from his house? I don't think he had brought them from his home, they were taken from the people's vote and from the laws. And therefore, do not you who have made sure to intervene in the independent authorities themselves and to abolish the National Broadcasting Council itself, which I would remind you that by law Mr. Pappas had taken over his powers. Second propaganda myth: The choice and appointment of the Secretary-General. For "party entrepreneurs" Mr. Tsipras spoke of "old party practices and prehistory in the party state," Mrs. Gennimata accused us. So let Mr. Tsipras tell us when in 2015 he shared the secretariats, with Mr. Kammens his partner, did he not appoint all the failed Members of the two parties? Mr Voutsis himself said that this was necessary in order for the Secretariats to implement the government's planning positions. Following the intervention of the Troika, the Act of 2016 was arbitrarily circumvented by SYRIZA by means of photographic devices to appoint themselves. That is why he was asking for excellent knowledge of English, elsewhere good, elsewhere medium, elsewhere any foreign language, elsewhere they asked for ten years in the private sector, elsewhere they asked for 10 years in the public sector, clean photographs for specific persons. And what happened? The troika has intervened again, the thirty-three out of sixty-nine were rejected after the implementation of the law as inappropriate and three years later, only one, from 2016 to 2019. And let us also be told by Mrs Gennamas, who talks about "prehistory in the party state" when PASOK appointed Secretary-General, where did she find them and appoint them? And why doesn't he ask Mr. Papandreou what happened in 2009 when he had implemented the famous "OpenGov", a paradox of forty thousand biographics, where he had finally been appointed two months later only party officials. "ELLELTERTYPIA" was written: "They are surely excellent to see." And finally, they were still executives, after OpenGov, by former MPs and SYRIZA officials. A Special Secretary of the ILO was appointed the president of the PASKE Economics Committee. And not to talk about crooked cases that left the next day, if you remember what happened. And where did we end up? To appoint the Director-General of PASOK as Secretary-General for Social Security. No dead for the glorious spiral. But it turned out that this whole story ended up in the nomination of party officials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u79	Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u80	Not to say that we went very quickly to the memorandum and Secretary that would run the ESRB had been found on 22 January 2010. It took five months then, in all that mess, to get the Secretary-General in. So, is there an answer to all this? Let us hear from Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennimata. Here, the government, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, decided immediately to appoint Secretary General to work. Everyone will be judged on the ground. And to this government, we will give a vote of confidence, to the one who works and doesn't crawl for months without knowing who is serving where. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute because it was personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u83	You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u84	Mrs Buddhism spoke and it is good because there are too many new colleagues here to know some data. On the issue of the Secretary-General, it was a matter that came before and was concluded on the third loan contract on the part of the institutions. Until then, things went the way they went. I'm talking about the semester when I was Minister of the Interior. But you should be aware, perhaps you have forgotten, that what I could do at the time, that is, in relation to the Secretaries of the Decentralised Administrations who were party officials on a traditional basis, I did. And it's a big deposit. In other words, the oldest directors were legally invaded until a year after ASP entered secretaries of the Decentralized Administrations outside party choices. This was a great incision and would obviously have been completed and much faster if the September 2015 elections were not held. That's for restoring things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u86	The Programming Statements presented by the Prime Minister confirm that the central anti-popular, anti-popular direction remains unresolved. The contradictions that we have heard and now between New Democracy and SYRIZA are on individual issues. The implementation of the designs of the monopolistic and business groups to create the conditions for increased profitability is the plan and the new government with new anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots measures, the deeper exploitation of the employees, the crackdown of any right that prevents business objectives. Workers are living up to the barbarity of the policy you have conducted over the years in New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA and now New Democracy. They live the employer's exploitation and arbitraryness. Unpaid and undeclared work continues. The health and safety conditions of'red workers', employers' crimes - accidents every day. The incomplete staffing of the Labour Inspectors' Body is a requirement for employers. The abolition of the APRC Secretariat is in this direction. They don't want any obstacles to the new forms of exploitation they use in the workplace. The unemployed have heard unbearable promises of many good jobs. He heard nothing about essential protection. It is not one in the programme and the other in unemployment. He heard nothing about an increase in the unemployment benefit and the duration of his payment, for the recognition of unemployment time as a time for insurance, for a subsidy for the rent, for the suspension of any first-resident auction, for a ban on power and water. There was no word about the hundreds of anti-government laws of Memorandums that smashed wages and employment and insurance rights, about workers' demands for fixed daily work, with eight hours a day's work, or with thirty-five hours a day with a minimum wage of EUR 751, with collective labour contracts, with working and insurance rights. But all these things are pathogens of the past, as the Prime Minister said yesterday. For the government, all overturns made by the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA and those planned by the New Democracy are progressing. What progress is the continued increase in the work of minors, which from two thousand seven hundred eighty booklets in 2005 became five thousand two hundred and forty-seven in 2016? What progress is the 2012 Ministerial Act, the Vrutsi-killer Act, which became the Ahchioglu-Brutsi Act, which abolishes collective bargaining for the lower wage for collective labour agreements? What progress is the elastic forms of work being made, sixteen of them recorded in tourism, and the young people planned by the New Democracy, such as seven days of work? What progress is made in the adjustment of working time, the 12-hour work that the SYRIZA Government has already introduced, the abolition of Sunday holidays, the 12-month trial period abolishing compensation, the abolition of the CSCE, the increased age limits for pensioning, active ageing, the slaughtering of the various allowances? What progress is the strikeout of the left SYRIZA, which, on the basis of this, all workers' struggles are declared illegal, such as the fight of workers at the Vlach Brothers' factory, who strike almost 100% of the workers against the dismissal of the President of the Lavrio Works Centre? For whom is the progress made in the definitive abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages of civil servants on the basis of the decision of the S.H.E., not to restore the losses and to continue the reductions in pensions? All this is progress for the monopolistic and business groups you serve. It is middle-aged for the workers, the self-employed, and especially for young people and young people. The Director General of BSE, Mr Scortsos, is now State Secretary of the Government of New Democracy. Two days before the elections he appealed to the S.H.E. on the cancellation of the Circular of the SYRIZA Ministry of Labour concerning the increase in wages for the three years. SYRIZA, who remained in the circular and did not definitively abolish the provision of the New Democracy Memorandum No. 4093/2012, Mrs. Ahtsioglou, which provides for a three-year freeze from February 2012 and then until unemployment fell below 10%, but also n.4172/2013, a law by Mr. Brutsis of the New Democracy, which, from February 2012 until today, had losses at the wage of 20%. The New Democracy's silence on this attitude by Mr Scortsu means accepting the claim of BSE. The new anti-industrial claims of industrialists will now be promoted directly and directly by their own man in the government. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The new attack on the insurance has begun. In the New Democracy options are the slightest, drastic reduction in the State's participation, the further exemption for employers, the reduction of insurance contributions, the privatisation of insurance, the introduction of a three-pillar system. Base for them is the Katorugalou law. It has prepared the ground for the three pillars with the national pension guaranteed by the State - and this alone - on the basis of contributions, the occupational funds. GSEE, BSE with the support of SYRIZA, which is in agreement with supplementary private insurance, are preparing for the creation of a pan-Hellenic occupational insurance fund. The European insurance product, established by the European Union by Regulation, that is to say, compulsory in all Member States, comes to be implemented by the New Democracy Government. The regulation on the insurance product refers to the risks for which the savers who buy it must be informed so that they themselves take the risk. No one guarantees a pension from this merchandise. It's known that capitalist companies are closing down, going bankrupt. We would like to remind ourselves of the 'SPA PROTECTION'. Today’s sixty - five - year - old people are expected to live for another twenty years, about to thirteen years in good health, so they can work for these thirteen years, that is, at work by seventy - eight. That was the placement of the BSE at an insurance event. Active aging! For this and others that do not take time, the government plans, in the so-called social dialogue, to compromise the demands of business groups. He will also legislate on the bogeyman of the social partners. No illusions should be made by the workers, no waiting. Now they need to prepare themselves for the counterattack. The JRC will testify all forces to increase the focus of resistance on every place of work, for organising the counter-attack of the working class and the people, in front of demanding modern needs. The only criterion we have is the defence of the working people's interests. That is why we are voting 'no' in the Programmatic Declarations and with legislative proposals, we will fight in and out of the House to satisfy the demands of the People's Movement, which we are tabling in the Minutes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Before we continue, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, for the first time I am chairing, to thank you for the confidence you have shown me. I believe that we will all exercise our duties as provided for in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Before we proceed to the next speaker, President Velopoulos asked for the floor on staff. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute because there have been some things in here that bother me like a human being. From the first moment on, I never expected SYRIZA and the New Democracy to agree on a muddling effort at the expense of the Greek Solution, especially for the scorpion. I can't believe they're talking about a patriot. I want to make a few things clear. This operation does not touch us for many reasons. I didn't know there were John Baptists in here baptizing parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, as you know, what the staff are to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, on personal grounds, it was a personal reference to my face. So I say - and I repeat - that no one is here in John Baptist to baptize other people. If they say we patriots, I can say they're patriots and Macedonians. Let's stop this story so we don't go down. And because I want to tell truths, I'm waiting for twenty signatories to see the story of Kotzia. They don't answer that. And the last statement by the Minister of the New Democracy, the top minister of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u91	How many times will he talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u92	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Kalafatis, listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. It's not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u95	Because he said the Minister here that they never said they'd change the deal. IDU... September 10, 2018. To be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u96	Please, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Athanasios, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would remind you of Rule 68, if I am not mistaken, of the Rules of Procedure, which says what is personal. That's not personal, it's converging now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u99	If they called you a patriot, wouldn't it be personal? Mr. President, if you were to be called a patriot in person?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u100	All right, you've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u101	So I say that the New Democracy Minister said that in the elections if SYRIZA wins, he will have the political right to ratify it. If New Democracy wins, it will have the political right to cancel it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u102	That's enough, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u103	Let's stop lying and leave the labels. To tell the truth in here. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So I don't allow anyone to call the Greek Solution as he wants. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u104	We continue with the next speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u105	That's enough of the show!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u106	He's in charge of a party...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u108	You're the president of a party! This is a programming procedure, not a arena! Twice you took the floor to create impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kalafatis, I think this is over. Please, Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u110	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u111	It's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u112	The review was on your face as a political person...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u113	No, Mr. Kalafatis, in my name, said it: "Mr. Velopoulos’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u114	We gave you some advice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u115	I don't need advice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u116	Please, Mr. Velopoulos, this is over. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to you today as a scientist for their hospitals and their problems. First of all, I will refer to saving resources through the drug, which I shall then analyse in detail. I would also like to mention the ranches which, unfortunately, have been flooding the corridors of some hospitals in the Attica basin, as well as the lack of doctors, paramedics and nursing staff because of public health cuts. Only one pathologist serves at Lemnos Hall and on-calls thirty days. I did it 30 years ago. There's no oncologist, so that there's no chemo in Lemnos, the one our neighbors really want. We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, who is being put directly, who has a direct impact and who is not one of the ordinary citizens, who is looking for hospital treatment in the area of public hospitals more and more because of the crisis and is entitled to receive the best possible services. I will also address the burning issue of the unbearable costs of insurance and care for refugees and migrants entering our country, which is a cost specifically borne by Greek taxpayers. First of all, the drug is an essential asset. It is the only way to ensure our health and better life. There is no doubt that the Greek state must intervene and support the Greek pharmaceutical industry by investing in research and, in particular, in the herbs that we have, as a country, over a thousand eight hundred species. Research, production, processing, processing and disposal of Greek products will give our young people jobs, not allowances that deprive them of dignity. We must then invest in the production of essential oils, which will be used in the production of medicines and at the same time in the production of cosmetics. The porridge that thrives on the northern continent is sold with 50,000 euros a kilo. Certainly, the proper design of the production of pharmaceutical herbs also has the effect of promoting the activation of high added-value products, as competition is limited to the number of herbs produced. This also works for the benefit of farmers, namely, of our farmers. The pharmaceutical industry contributes significantly to our country's total external trade, since in 2014 exports of medicinal products approached one billion and constituted the second export product in terms of value. If we can re-establish the pharmaceutical industry, then we will have less chance of finding ourselves in the face of cases such as 'NOVARTIS' which, in order to promote their own medicines and products, seem to have carried out procedures which, perhaps, were not the right ones. The collapse of our pharmaceutical industry, which has been active for sixty years because of the troika and the constant price rises, has adversely affected the production of medicines. Our aim is to get out of the vicious circle of deficits and overcompensation, reducing the imports of foreign medicines by increasing our Greek counterparts and our exports. The pharmaceutical industry is a key investment lever in Greece. With the expenditure on research, the development of new therapies can be an important core of employment for the children of the Greek family, so the Greek Health Funding Solution proposes a number of measures, some of which relate to the exploitation of drug-related resources. First of all, determining VAT on 6% medicine. This amount, resulting from the tax, will be allocated directly to the Ministry of Health for the financing and payment of the needs of hospitals, the on-calls of medical staff and overtime of nurses and paramedical staff, as well as for the supply of medical, technological equipment. Secondly, incentives and promotion of actions, research and development for the production of domestic medicinal products for domestic consumption and for export. Thirdly, we are proposing to set up a national pharmaceutical industry to provide additional incentives for private pharmaceutical industries with specific low-cost incentives and with tax exemptions to stay in our country and to operate by giving jobs to scientific and other staff. The share capital contribution for medicines is to be determined at 10% for most categories. The category of medicines includes medicinal herbs, therefore, it is proposed to establish a crop programme for these herbs by the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development, where farmers will have a reduced income tax than others. These herbs will be used for the domestic manufacture of preparations and for export as raw material treated or raw. Sixthly, the implementation of our strategic plan for the use of pharmaceutical herbs and aromatic plants in the production of high quality cosmetics. Greece is the only country in the world that, because of the climate and the proper geophysical conditions, can grow such crops, because there are thousands of recorded pharmaceutical and aromatic plants, such as, say, the aloe ring, grown in Greece and have global success. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we always call on the Greek Solution to sign our proposal to investigate the responsibilities of the former Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Kotzias and to find out why they have rushed to sign the Ambassadors' Agreement. We urge you to do this by respecting the wishes of the majority of the Greek people who condemn and oppose this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. Mr Thomas, Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, has the floor for seven minutes. Then Mr. Friends will speak according to the list. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have spoken. The Government commits itself to a national energy policy that will ensure the country's energy security, with the aim of gradually reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the shortest possible time. We are committed to national energy policy being socially fair. By the end of the year, as provided for in European legislation, Greece's national energy and climate plan, which we want to be ambitious in terms of renewable energy, energy saving, innovation and new technologies, will be submitted. Our energy policy will be compatible with the temperature targets of the Paris Agreement and the long-term European sustainable development strategy. Our aim is for the energy transition to take place in such a way that it attracts investment, to benefit to the maximum from Community funds and the resources of the European Investment Bank, to acquire extroversion and to bring about growth by creating new jobs. Of course, the first urgent priority is PPC and the treatment of its ill economic situation, which was presented to us on the first day by the management of the company, which "ERNST & YOUNG" has publicly presented as a sworn accountant. There will be rationalisation interventions, structural measures to promote the reorganisation of PPC’s overall market position, but also to ensure that sources of development are provided for the future PPC, such as RES, which PPC has not invested in the last four years and has a market share of less than 4%. But that is why Mr Hatzidakis will be speaking in detail on Monday. In Greece, the electricity market has remained a long way behind, especially in terms of liberalisation and competition. That is why we are launching areas for strengthening the credibility of the institutions and other market players, which will open up competition, we are creating conditions for the energy stock exchange to function as soon as possible and for the target model to be adopted, which has been delayed, although it is an unsuccessful obligation for the European Union. Thus, we will achieve growth, competition, integration and cooperation with neighbouring countries and ultimately low prices for consumers, which is something we all want. We are taking steps to strengthen the competitiveness of our country's energy-intensive industry and small and medium-sized enterprises. With regard to electricity infrastructure we give priority to the major interconnection projects, Crete - Attiki, Dodecanese - Crete, Ikaria - Samos - Cyclades, North Aegean, and to the integration of the Cyclades with mainland Greece. In this way we support island Greece and the country's tourism industry and we strengthen our activities within the framework of the 'Natural Energy for the islands of Europe' initiative. At the same time we are already planning the transition, adaptation and financial support of the regions of Greece that will be most affected by gradual decarbonisation. Our strategy is clearly aimed at reducing energy poverty, with a view to social cohesion, alleviating the weak social households and, more generally, the economic benefit of the final consumer. We are committed to the rapid development of the market in renewable energy, given our country's geographical location, with the aim of overcoming the EIA penetration targets in the energy mix set by the European Union and making investments. The Greek Thinking Reservoir for the Energy Economy appreciates investment of 10 billion in the RES by 2030. We're starting with the simplification of the license. The average licensing time is now seven years, when the European benchmark is two years. In order to get there we need to shorten with the time of inspection and approval, to automate procedures by applying an electronic management system, by digital transfer of files and by digital opinion of all the competent authorities. This will be done together with the revision of the specific spatial planning and sustainable development, launched by the previous government and that will accelerate. We will form a clear institutional framework for extending the working time of these RES parks and starting a strategic study of a specific framework for wind parks offshore. At the new age of electricity generation we will encourage investments in energy netting from households and businesses, promote a decentralised energy-sharing system, which will support the sale of electricity to the network by small producers, whether they are farmers or small or simple citizens. In this direction it is necessary to introduce as soon as "smart meters", which will, by the way, help effectively and to combat the rhetoric. Energy storage, which can convert RES energy into stored fuel, will be found in the ultimate priority of investment and research funds that we manage national and Community funds. We will develop mature storage solutions, such as hydroelectric, and new technologies, such as modern batteries and hydrogen. We support the development of biomass and biogas plants, as well as high enthusiasm geothermals. At the same time, we will also take initiatives on low enthusiasm with the other ministries. Energy saving and active efficiency can be an important pillar of development for the country. Our aim is to continue the program of "Home-to-house" with the rationalisation of the terms, so as to benefit as many of our fellow citizens as possible, gradually reaching the hundreds of thousands of homes a year. It will facilitate certification, lead the domestic construction and manufacturing industry, achieve more and more substantial leverage from the banking system and programmes such as ‘Invest EU’ and the European Investment Bank, while addressing tax exemptions in case of the implementation of energy upgrading measures. Similar programmes are designed for small and medium-sized enterprises. An important role will be called upon to play the public, which will show exemplary action. Energy renovation in public buildings will take place not only through the NSRP, whose resources are not sufficient, but also through the purchase of energy services and energy efficiency contracts. In the transport sector, emphasis will be placed on promoting electricity and developing green public transport. The Prime Minister has already announced a commitment yesterday to renew public transport in four years' time. In the gas sector, we will reorganise the PPA so that they can obtain the supply of gas in terms as competitive as possible for consumers. Our aim is to make the necessary revisions of the law of the previous government so that the project of privatization will yield and be profitable to the public. We are committed to the timely implementation of long-term infrastructure projects, which will help Greece deepen its strategic links. We give priority to investing the natural gas networks in urban areas and we will examine the possibilities of investing LNG in the large ports of the country for the purposes of shipping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u120	Please complete, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u121	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Apart from energy, the use of the country's mineral and mineral wealth is a key priority. The country has a wide variety of mineral ore, which we will use with respect to local society, best environmental practices and the national economy. We will institutionalise the national policy of fossil raw materials announced in 2012. By making use of the progress achieved, we are simplifying and speeding up the procedures for the recovery of hydrocarbons, and we will immediately bring the relevant conventions for the four concessions to Parliament. To sum up, I would like to stress that our national energy policy, with multiplier actions and innovations, will ensure energy security, development and social justice for Greek citizens. At the same time, it will give the Greek citizen the vision and the new generation, which dreams of a Greek protagonist and winner in the battle with climate change and the rescue of our planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Nikolaos Friend of SYRIZA has the floor now and then Mr Giannakis from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the sensitive area of education it has already started to sound the malicious instruments of anachronism and regression. But before I can list them, I would like to say something positive: it is right that your decision, ladies and gentlemen of the government, should finally carry out the four and a half thousand recruitments that our government has launched in Special Education, in practice canceling your policy of one for every five departures. The pressure we put on you by the election has taken place. We know that you are barely doing so, so you do not even commit to the remaining ten thousand five hundred recruitments that the SYRIZA government has agreed with the institutions, while only this year will we hire thirty-seven alternates to run the schools, nor, of course, you tell us whether it is your goal that we have declared ourselves, that is, to reach 5% of GDP for education by the end of the four-year period. But let's see the writing sample on the few days you're running in education. You cut off the research from the Ministry of Education and joined the Ministry of Economy, ignoring European reality and despising the consistent response of the research community. This is an outburst for a sector of the Ministry of Education which has developed over SYRIZA, for the first time bringing research to more than 1% of GDP and bringing innovation up to 82% of the European average. You have committed diligences, such as the extension of submission of the computer, which has upset children and families for no reason. In view of the incredible experiments and irregularities in the establishment of the governmental bodies, we warn that the smooth start of schools in September is being threatened. We have ensured everything. And credit and early recruitment of alternates and books already in schools. By falling under pressure from the Patolis system, you do not clarify your position on two-year-old pre-school education, this emblematic reform of the SYRIZA that has moved forward to the vast majority of municipalities. You are about to play on the issue of admission to universities, blocking the state's right to determine the number of importers. We have not heard of you committing yourself to the training of refugees and education in prisons. Really, are you transferring prison schools to the Civilian Ministry? So are you going to do the same with the training of the chauffeurs? What are the refugee children? Prisoners? And now on the subject of university asylum. You said that you would abolish it - you said with pride: 'We will abolish the asylum' - by the first law that you will vote on and that now the police will even be able to intervene with an anonymous call. Today's legislation, which is based on the provisions on Ms Giannakou's government, protects asylum against acts of lawlessness but does not abolish it. Police can intervene automatically for self-inflicted felonies, while rector authorities can request its intervention for other offences. Do not demolish the universities of the country that have a high level of study and a great international recognition. We now have twenty-four universities whose restructuring and reconstruction are the work of SYRIZA and reflect the new architecture of higher education in our country. But it is the crucial problems and the necessary objectives. It is sub-funding, sub-scribing, integrating the European principle of the single higher education and research area - which we have taken steps and you are leaving it from what it seems - the expansion of foreign-language departments, synergies with foreign universities, the even greater discrimination of our universities in international ratings and ranks, constant care for infrastructure and student care, the reversal of Brain Drain, which we with institutions, such as ELIDEC, or the multiplication of IKH scholarships, have begun to face. Of all this, you have your mind in asylum and, of course, in private universities. So much poverty of ideas and programmes and such a reversal of priorities! At primary and secondary level, you are also prepared, under a pretext of wishful but not neutral words, such as "autonomy", "right of choice" and "evaluation", to proceed to the "guns in education" system and to a complete frontal attack on the public school in the neighborhood - which we upgraded - and to teachers. You have suffered, gentlemen of the government, intellectual entanglement in the infamous law of Diamantopoulou, which caused enormous insecurity in universities and schools. But, if that is the case, bring Mrs Diamantopoulou herself to the government, as you brought Mr Chrysochide, and not to govern Mrs Diamantopoulou through representatives! On the sensitive subject of Church and School relations you seem to have no God. Mrs. Kerame has prompted reassurances to the Church that open up appetites in the dark circles to reinvade schools. What else is her reference to the Archbishop at the meeting with the Archbishop? Don't you know, Minister, that the only priests in our educational system are the Muslim teachers of the Qur'an in minority schools? Is the Government of New Democracy planning to create a branch of Christian orthodox ‘Jerodediacas’? Does the government intend to abolish the new programs of Religiouss taught with complete success in schools? Does he intend to retreat to the requirements of the Church in the property? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to the National Representation and to the Greek people that SYRIZA had a successful four years of conquest and success in the field of education. With specific work, two specific interventions and reforms, we took education out of the deep crisis and dismantlement and opened the way to the school of equality, quality and democracy. On this road we will continue as a Qualified Opposition. Next to the Ministry of Education for proposals and constructive criticism, but also to your side, along with the movements of students, students and teachers, in every authoritarian and anti-educational policy. In this way, both in the field of education and in general, SYRIZA is and will remain, a great national and popular force of struggle and governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Mr Giannakis Stergios has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Yoyakas Vasilis is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, following the elections on 7 July, the first government samples show that normality is returning to Greece. It appeared from the first moment of its formation that the new government was ready to act quickly, reliably and effectively, that it had worked out and prepared a comprehensive national reconstruction plan for the country, with the aim of making the necessary structural changes and fiscal stability, to activate the unstable forces of our nation. The election result has shown that the New Democracy is an expression of hope, guarantee, guarantee of democratic legitimacy and national dignity. That is why the burden of our responsibility is extremely great. We are aware of national requirements, but also of the difficulties and the criticality of moments. We know that our way won't be turned on roses. New Democracy is called upon to rule for the next four years with sincerity, wisdom, maturity, right speech, political culture, but also with stability and determination. After four and a half years of unreliableness, experimentation, errors, incontinental partyism, totalitarian propaganda, nepotism, settled behavior, arrogance and complacency, but also dangerous divisional practices and decisions, with their culmination in our national issues, it is time to change. Change a page, then, with a national self-confidence, with political stability of four years, with security conditions and dealing with crime, with distinct certaintys, with extensive and coherent fiscal reform, with a pro-development and pro-export mark, with priority and measurable results in health, with increasing credibility, with a given climate of productivity creation and growth - particularly in the primary sector - but also with social justice. The aim and purpose of the real and dynamic recovery of the economy, which is the necessary treaty, to be strong and decent Greece. The reproduction of wealth and fair distribution, the reversal of the investment activity, the reconstituting of the middle-class that was broken by the previous government, the correction of errors, errors and deliriums. A commitment is the creation of a friendly climate for healthy entrepreneurship and support for productive Greece. The commitment is the investment panoramics of public and private investment, as well as the unblocking of flagship investments, so that stable and well-paid new jobs can be created and returned to their place to live and create the Greeks who have taken the road to the Xenon. A commitment is quality education and training, support for research creators, technological development, innovation, extroverted and open society. Since some monopolies social sensitivity, I must say that pluralist policy today, in the demanding times that we live, is a major sector, structural reforms. Reforms and divisions mean a break with established attitudes, a break with artisans and interest groups, but they mean, at the same time, social justice, equality, relief and protection of the weak, merit, respect for legality and rules. Does anyone or any of my colleagues in this Chamber have any objections and doubts that this is exactly the bet, the sample of writing, the aim and practice of Mr Mitsotakis? Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude with one comment: only in the composition of the government it seemed that what the New Democracy and the current Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said meant and acted. Without party claws it attempts the greatest possible shocks and consents, because Greece we want, Greece of tomorrow needs all Greeks and all Greeks inclusive. Our aim is to unite the whole of Hellenism and contribute to the national effort with only one vision and aim: Greece of prosperity, Greece of the prose, Europe of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr Giannakis, and especially for keeping time. I now ask Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy to take the floor. Mr. Dimitris Tzanakopoulou will then speak. Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in turn, to wish the Government every success in its work and welcome my fellow Members, young and old, with wishes for a good and creative term. In the recent elections citizens gave a clear and strong mandate to the New Democracy to do its programme, they ordered it to carry out its task as government no longer, which is to bring economic growth, social prosperity, external and internal security not for a few, not for some, but for everyone. But beyond the battle for a powerful Greece, for a better life for Greek women and Greeks, there is another bet, another great battle to be won. It's the battle of values, the battle of principles, the battle of ethos. Because our proposal to society, ladies and gentlemen, does not only concern a project of governance of the country. It is also about a concept, another culture that we want to encourage and cultivate, particularly in younger generations. Against the division and distinction of "we or others" we want to embrace the entire society, unite the Greeks. In the face of moderateness and selective relations, we reward excellence and worthiness. We want to root back in our society the values of preparedness, boldness, creation, the belief that it doesn't matter where one starts as much as he can, since he has the chances and work hard, go forward, the responsibility each has and each one becomes better for himself, for his fellow citizens, for the country. For us, the state is not a spoil that shares a party company and its friends, but it exists to make the daily lives of taxpayers better and to support development. We do not see the institutions as a game in the court of the respective government, but we respect their autonomy and the role that the Constitution and the laws reserve them, nor do we negotiate the protection of life, integrity and property, let alone when they leave ballots in the hands of all kinds of reasoning. We are responding to the mud and blind opposition, and we will respond by means of institutional means and political arguments. It is not the arrogance of power that expresses us but the humility of duty. These principles, these values, ladies and gentlemen, are the basis for achieving our task as a government. They are the materials of a new social contract, a contract that we have set beforehand in the crisis of society with the agreement of truth. It is this agreement that we want to observe and consolidate with our actions, with our words, with our spirit, for the sake of every Greek and every Greek, whether he trusted us in the elections or not. This difficult, but nice, race has already begun. The first samples of the new government are consistent with what we said and did all three years before the elections. There's a plan, there's a team, there's an organization. Objectives and priorities have been set in each area. The legislative work will move rapidly. There are ten drafts ready, as our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, which will soon move on and further mature. The government shape combines experience, knowledge and dynamism. Renewal to persons is unprecedented, as is the speed at which political responsibility has been met, the reduction of which symbolizes our commitment to flexible and more effective administration. There is knowledge who should do what and how. Time and time have passed, and there is a mechanism for supervising, coordinating and evaluating governmental work. In the way the new government already operates, it shows that the New Democracy all that it said as Opposition meant them. We show that we are consistent with the values and principles that we want to inflame in society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days we have the opportunity with the Greek citizens to hear a lot about the objectives and priorities of each ministry. In any case, it is one: there is much work and little time. We are aware of the reality, the difficulties, the constraints, the resistances, the forces of inaction. But we also have a heavy sense of responsibility towards all Greeks, to be worthy of their expectations, to honour our word. We know that we have set the bar high and we are ready, we are determined to overcome it, because before and beyond us we believe in the capacity of the country and its people. We leave behind behaviours and perceptions that have brought us to the edge of the cliff. We learn from the mistakes of the past not to repeat them. That is why the morning of July 8 is not the return to normality, as it is called in the last few days. It is the beginning of a new normality, a normality that the younger Greece has never met. To this end we want participants in all the Greeks, and that is what I will personally support with all my powers, giving a vote of confidence to the Government of the new regularity, to the Government of New Democracy, to the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor. After Mr. Janakopoulos, the Minister for Digital Governance will speak, Mr. Pierracakis. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to wish everyone and everyone a good start. I will start by pointing out an unfortunate one, and I would say - a dangerous choice from Mr Mitsotakis yesterday's reading of the Programming Declarations. Mr. Mitsotakis chose yesterday to present his positions and basic programming targets as self-evident truths. Already this option linked to his abhorrence that his word has absolutely no meaning, is a choice that indicates or highlights a benevolent totalitarianism and a clear arrogance. Why, who can question selfish truths? An abnormal, an insane, maybe a left man who can in the minds of Mr. Mitsotakis is the same. In the minds, of course, some of his executives are declared to be the same. Let us stand by it and move on to the point. As Mr Mitsotakis said yesterday, they had a clear, clear political direction, a rightful political direction, which arises both from what he said and from what he did not say. In the economy it reiterated the right-wing comitology that tax reductions in itself are enough for businesses -4% from 2020 and not from 2019, as it wanted to be presented - to bring about a strengthening of recovery. It's never been proven anywhere. From Thatcher and Reagan to Macree and Trump, this policy has failed in all its versions. This does not mean that there is no need for a serious debate on how to change in a fairer direction to the tax system, but on its own, the logic of 'trickle down economics' which Mr Mitsotakis and the entire Government of New Democracy have embraced and which can only increase inequalities in Greek society and lead the Greek economy to unresolved political problems. But Mr Mitsotakis did not tell us to implement this policy of tax relief primarily in large enterprises, where he will find the space for this. I think that explains the fact that he was completely cryptic - for guilty silences Mr. Tsipras spoke yesterday, the Chief of Police Vice-Population - on issues such as taxfree, for example. Only one phrase was heard during his speech on the enlargement of the tax base. Let me tell you that the expansion of the tax base is the way in which the International Monetary Fund describes the need for tax reductions. I therefore believe that we need clarification from both the new Minister of Finance and Mr Mitsotakis. That is why Mr Mitsotakis was completely cryptic and as far as his social and welfare commitments are concerned. Word about the insurance system, word about social benefits, word about health funding! His only commitments were to reduce admissions to the Greek universities as far as the social state is concerned - and education you know that it is part of the social state - a reduction, therefore, of admissions to higher education and no commitment to the issue of assistant teachers, the big problem which the previous government, our government, has attempted to start its solution through the tens of thousands of permanent teachers. These are all silences which should be clarified in the course of the Programmatic Declarations. So far, that has not been the case. What else did Mr. Mitsotakis not say, which makes us really worried? He did not say a word about what he intends to do with the labour market. Cuveda! In the previous parliamentary term, he had strongly criticised the reintroduction of the basic principles of collective bargaining, namely the principle of experiency and the principle of more favourable regulation. Does he intend to abolish them? Does he intend to keep them? I would remind you that the New Democracy voted against it. Word for minimum wage, word for three years! The only thing that Mr Mitsotakis and the current government have had to do was to abolish the self-sufficiency of the SEA, the Labour Inspectorate, which acted as a special secretariat to enable them to make an autonomous design, operational, so as to maintain legality in the labour market. So there is a big question here: does Mr Mitsotakis intend to continue the New Democracy policy, which was aimed at clearing the so-called 'biasing' of the labour market, namely labour rights and labour acquired rights? Does it intend to maintain or intend to abolish the steps taken throughout the previous period to restructure the labour market? All these are questions which I do not hope will be answered in these Programmatic Declarations. We shall be here, however, so that we can see what the basic objectives and basic programming logic of this new government are. I could multiply the list by pointing out other points, other silences or other explicit commitments by Mr Mitsotakis, which were not politically neutral, such as the PPC plan. I could also highlight points that retrospectively highlight the opposition hypocrisy of the New Democracy on a number of issues: justice, transparency, the press, etc. But we'll have time for all this. To sum up, I would like to say that Mr Mitsotakis' policy is not at all neutral. It is a neoliberal alloy, authoritarianism and vengeance, and that is why it will find us completely against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. Mr Pierracakis Kyriakos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are several reasons for being optimistic today. The sovereign, however, is that this decade of crisis - many have described it as a monster era - seems to close and seems to start a new page. However, this page has to be changed, not only to symbolize it, but also to make it happen. With regard to the portfolio that I have the honour of taking, digital governance, I will try to talk mainly about the image, about what we have received, but also about our vision, where we want the country to go. In this respect, I think we should start with a statistic, with an image. There is one indicator, the DESI indicator, the digital economy and society index of the European Union. This indicator came out a few weeks ago for 2019. It ranks the country into a number of individual indicators, and there we are twenty-six out of twenty-eight. We had once talked about the IT train and the IT train Greece should not have lost it. He lost it. When you are twenty-six in twenty-eight, just over Romania and Bulgaria - and especially in the individual indicator for digital public services, twenty-seven - it goes on to say that the train has lost it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u132	In 2014, how old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u133	That's the problem for the country for decades. But now, because we are talking about the 4th Industrial Revolution, we have to go over and start as a ministry by setting an ambitious objective: in four years we have converged with the European Union's average. We started with a change. The Ministry we took over is not the same as the Ministry we received. First of all, communication is not part of the new Ministry. It's never supposed to be. Secondly, we accumulated the diverse responsibilities of the state involved in IT there. The first task is to simplify procedures. You can't just publish digital works. You should also simplify procedures. Technology exists to make citizens' lives better. There's not just about digitizing red tape. For this reason, the old powers related to simplifications and which until recently were located in the old Ministry of Administrative Reform are now in the new digital ministry, along with the JEPs. In this respect, the new Ministry will take the initiative to develop a national framework for simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucracy, which among others will include the creation of a register of administrative procedures for the public, which will be accessible to citizens so that they can know what procedures are in place and what case they are - and in this context we will also work with all the ministries - and the launch of a horizontal programme for measuring and reducing administrative burdens on the legislation, corresponding to what had been run in 2014 by the then Minister for Administrative Reform and today's Prime Minister together with the OECD. The JEPs are one of the most successful institutions of the Greek state. If you see relevant research, it is the most popular entity of the Greek state. However, in recent years the JEPs have been neglected. We are bringing this excellent institution back to the fore. We are strengthening it and making use of it. And in this context we will make a reassessment of all the services that the JEPs offer today, we will reconvene their operating framework to modernise them and upgrade their infrastructure to the standards of the best corresponding private infrastructure. One of the first actions we will also be taking - and we have talked about this in detail in the tradition - the receipt of the Ministry - is about the so-called life-threatening events of the citizens. Each of us from the moment of birth until the time of the loss of a loved one's life experiences a series of events. And each event entails bureaucratic action. Each event involves tails. When a child is born, there are too many of the tails. Why are these tails? Because the various systems of the Greek state, the various registers do not work together. They don't talk to each other. That is why one of our first actions will be to take one - one of these events of life and try to simplify them. Where there are five tails to become one or two. Especially for birth, we think we will have achieved this in very few months. In this context, we will use and transform the General Secretariat of Information Systems. Until first, the General Secretariat of Information Systems was an entity of the Ministry of Finance. Now there will be a General Secretariat of Information Systems of the government, all over the country, a public administration data centre. And to that end we will extend the so-called Jiggle out infrastructure so that all the data will be gradually transferred there to enable the interoperability that I have spoken about. Of course this must be done, especially as regards digital projects, in the context of a broader project. In the Ministry we will promote a digital transformation paper in the country. The Bible will be the practical guide defining the principles and implementation plan of the digital strategy and setting measurable targets and measurable results per quarter. The Bible will be updated annually through an open and cooperative process with both the other ministries and with the citizens in consultation in order to meet the needs of the State and the public administration concerned. It will respond to the fragmentation of competences for digital governance, the overlapping or fragmented actions and the lack of measurable targeting in the entities. We will start with the short-term actions of three to twelve months, like the events I mentioned before, namely, the cutting of the tails. At the same time, we will also raise a site by imitating a very good example of the United Kingdom. It's called gov.uk. We will build a corresponding portal for Greece, which will be a central point of entry and digital service where all digital solutions and everything that citizens and other traders should know with the public are concentrated. It will rise quickly and we will increase the data that will gradually contain, in the depth of the four-year period. The medium-term natural interventions concern in fact - because we are talking about technology - major projects. And with regard to large projects, if you look at it in its detail, there are projects which have been unresolved for ten years, such as the CRM, the service of the traders. Human resources management. HRMS is the arctic. If you see presentations by Greek governments of 2010 or 2011, these projects are there. And they haven't been proclaimed yet. Our aim is to make the relevant announcements soon and by the end of the year, to have published these works, but also several more of which we need. Networks and telecommunications. Since the first days of the new government's life - theory of Halkidiki, the Attica earthquake - we remembered that telecommunications is a basic human need. We have already committed ourselves that the 112 system will be available by the end of the year. Apart from that, the basic infrastructure of the system is already operational. What's missing? Not functional on all devices. What we are now going to do is get in touch with all manufacturers, so that it is functional for all appliances obviously when delivered. At the same time, because it cannot be a year after Eye there is no intermediate solution, what we asked of the providers is an intermediate solution. Within a few weeks this will be available to the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. It will be very simple. The possibility of sending sms to selected areas should there be a relative need. It's self-evident. But there are many issues to which we shall speak immediately. Aerial licensing bill. Top importance for investments in wireless networks. Especially now that we're entering the 5G era is even more necessary. And how necessary it is to be seen the day before yesterday. It's a three- decade time issue. It will be quickly closed, even more improved in relation to the processes that we have found ready, so that in a coordinated and fully predictable way we can upgrade services and investments for the benefit of the citizens. Networks 5G. We see internationally that they are now part of geopolitical competition, if you like. It's a top issue. The first step is to build a national plan. We'll have it formed immediately. This plan will specify what the relevant subsystem is. It will provide all participants with a full picture and predictability. By the end of next year the relevant spectrum will be auctioned by the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. But I would like to emphasise in an innovative way that will encourage productive investment in the new generation networks. Regarding the wired high-speed networks, our goal is the so-called super-fast internet to reach the last Greek household. We will look at simple procedures for subsidising end-users. HELTA. On ELTA issues, the data are undeniable. The company has very negative financial results. It is the result of a lack of special care and determination for several years. The data is analysed by the new political leadership of the Ministry. The design that will go ahead will aim at the resolution of the viability and development of the company and its comparative advantages. The need for a sustainable solution is undeniable. There can be no additional time runs. Regarding our activities in space, we have already celebrated the 50 years since the moon was conquered. Space is a subject that causes many comments. It is a place where if we see it without communication, it can be useful for our country. Intelligent agriculture, civil protection. There is a lot of evidence we need to invest in. But we have to do it without excesses, without impunity. That is why we will be in cooperation with relevant international bodies to do so quickly. I'm closing up saying this. This fifty-year anniversary is an interesting opportunity to think about this. Nations when deciding great excesses can achieve them. And today, ten years after the start of the crisis, our country is called upon to make its own excess. To pass from one time to another. And we've done it before. In particular, for a new Minister who speaks of this historic step for the first time these meetings are intense. And I think that opposite this historic building in 1910 a Cretan leader addressed a crowded crowd of expectations, told them that he was coming as a signifier of new political ideas and did nothing less than an institutional revolution. He put the country on the tracks of the 20th century, enlisted most of the present territorial status. In 1974, both from this building and for the coming years, a Macedonian leader did something like that. He built the Third Hellenic Republic and made his own excesses. These examples do not constitute inspiration. They are national-scale examples. They're live because their choices set the coordinates of the next generations. They have defined and founded the current Greek state and they reflect that we, as a people, have the opportunity to fall back on our feet. It was Charilaos Trikoupis, if I remember well, who said "Greece is meant to live and live". In our hands, we must make that one. To rebuild the state and push Greece to change season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. The next circle of speakers with four MPs will now begin. We'll start with Mr. Francis Georgios from the Change Movement. Then Mr. Stephanos Gikas will speak, then Mr. Athanasios Davakis, Mr. Theodores Dritsas from SYRIZA. The cycle will be closed with the speech of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Placiotakis. Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the start of the new parliamentary term and the work of the House, I would like to wish all of us health, strength and good work. Political ethos, upgraded political speech, hard work, productivity and political culture are elements that will characterize all of us. And I must say that I am glad to be in this House after a few years and within it there are only the parties of the constitutional arch. The Greek people expect a lot of us and we all have to be useful and fertile. There is no grace period for anyone, and how much more for the government. It must not be lost for one day. After all, the four-year government term of SYRIZA - ANEL is a past. But the signs of their political choices are indelible at the place and in relation to society and in relation to the economy. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras' print in Greece is the poorening of the middle class. So we need a titanium project to revive the Greek economy, restore the rule of law, rebuild the social structures. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the New Democracy has won a self-sufficient victory assisted by foreign policy and SYRIZA's laundry, which has masturbated the responsibility for the bankruptcy of the five-year government of Karamanlis. We, as a movement of change, have said it and said it again that we will exercise responsibility, programming and consensual opposition. We will, however, be vague in our view that it is not for the benefit of the citizens and the country. After all, for us the good of the country is a priority, despite the fact that our party has paid this disproportionately. And clearly, as our President said yesterday in her speech, we will be consensual where we think our policies agree. But I come to the first days of your government, which I think they give the first sample of what is going to follow. I begin with the primary surpluses, an unwanted legacy of SYRIZA and one of the most serious issues the government has to deal with. The first thing the creditors did after the elections was to remind Mr Mitsotakis of his obligations regarding the surpluses agreed. Mr. Mitsotakis unfortunately had no reaction. The achievement of the surpluses therefore requires two things: the reduction of public spending and the imposition of unfavourable taxation. It is thus understood that the development you are evangelizing will stumble on these two factors, which make it even more urgent for the implementation of the motion for a change movement to emerge from Parliament from a committee from all the parties, which will negotiate the reduction of the objective of the surpluses. I wonder who still believes the New Democracy's election promises of substantial tax cuts since we heard only some fragmentary and horizontal tax relief yesterday? The Prime Minister has not mentioned at all the farmers, the reduction of their taxation, the taxation of their insurance contributions, subsidies, the granting of oil and much more. Nor has it been mentioned in the middle-class, which is the backbone of the economy, which has paid the marble of the crisis and which does not expect much, as the SYRIZA policy seems not to be significantly amended in this area by the new government, nor do I see any structural changes leading to the country's productive reconstruction. At this point I would like to mention the need for the state to turn its interest in both regions and outside Athens and Thessaloniki, as the Prime Minister mentioned yesterday, in areas with particular problems. I take as an example my special homeland the Kilkis Prefecture which, as a rural county, pays very hard in its economy farmers' tax. Yet one more thing: Kilkis had the third most organized BIP in Greece. Business there closes, because they go to Bulgaria and the state of Skopje or better, to be politically correct, to tell the state of Northern Macedonia, because they find a better tax environment, so that the country loses many millions. We need to see that as well. On the basis of what we have heard, the government has presented a comprehensive and realisticly costed programme, only partial announcements. Not even a reason for collective agreements, for industrial relations. Immigration follows the same policy as SYRIZA. Also, no incision to the penitentiary system. There was nothing to be said about strengthening and caring for the family. To upgrade universities, of course, it is not an asylum panacea. We didn't hear anything about the election law. For PPC, we need to hear an integrated rescue plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, we all agree that the basic time problem in Greece is the functioning of institutions and the state. But in this case, the government has unfortunately disappointed us. The rhetoric of merit and the abstraction of the state used, collapsed with a great steward, and this is seen by the Secretary-General appointed without even having an EKT. Speaking of the Secretary-General, we have to say that there is also a lack of morality that characterises the choice of placement to the Ministry of Civilian Protection, which is responsible for what happened in Eye. Caution is also worthy of questioning that while the New Democracy disagreed on the spying and the Prespecies Agreement, it joins the force of its government's policy that voted for the Embassy Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the government's programme statements. We've heard some nice words. But the Greek people have been full of words all these years. However, each of us is judged by its works and results.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u136	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. I must therefore, as a member of the progressive party, of the Change Movement to comment on the fact that the Programmatic Declarations of this government assign a maintenance odor, do not contribute towards strengthening the social state and eliminating social inequalities and, unfortunately, in many areas, they are on the same path as the policies of the previous government. For all this, I am voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two introductory remarks about yesterday. I have listened very carefully to the former Prime Minister, but also to MPs in this Chamber questioning the New Democracy for the Ambassadors' Agreement. First of all, you must understand that the New Democracy's attitude has been clear and is still clear. For us, the Prespecies Agreement is a fait accompli. It should not have been voted on, we fought for it, and of course we voted against it. So no one in this Chamber is entitled - let me be allowed to speak - to lie to the New Democracy for the Ambassadors' Agreement. Secondly, I listened to Mr Tsipras, addressing the Prime Minister, saying to him that 'you said nothing about Turkish provocativeness'. Is the Greek Prime Minister responsible for the Turkish challenge that he received ten days ago? To remember, friends and friends, in the six months before Mr. Tsipras received, how many violations we had in the Aegean Sea. So I'm telling you that we had a high number of violations. It was about nine hundred and six of them. Do you know how many we have in this semester the country's governance is delivered to us? We have two thousand four hundred four violations and a hundred seventy one involvement. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stefanos Gikas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, I do not claim that the government has a responsibility for this. This is due to Erdogan policy. However, I claim that actions, omissions and actions have facilitated or, if you like, strengthened this Turkish infraction and provoking. Really, SYRIZA's friends and friends, what about the forty-five programs that our Government passed in October 2014 through the KYSEA and you validated in March 2015? Really, how many of them have gone? I would like to return - because time passes - on the issues of the Programming Declarations. Look, this government programme, perhaps by way of derogation from previous years, was created after more than three years of laborious efforts by hundreds of people who were not booked in party offices, but who came out to society. We contacted sector-by-sector with market people, workers, trade unions, people who knew the subject. We sat down and created sixteen policy areas and proposed sixteen policy packages to Greek citizens. Of course, Greek citizens with a strong majority have given New Democracy the right and responsibility to implement this programme. Yesterday we heard important areas from the Prime Minister. We also hear all day - and, of course, later tomorrow and tomorrow by the ministers more specific - what is going to happen. You know, regulator in this program is the economy. We have a motto that we are saying, and I think it is the quintany of our policy, a phrase, but it hides it all: fewer taxes and contributions, more investment, more and better jobs. That is what we are following, that is being implemented, it is unfolding from our policies that you will hear and then. However, we have heard other things from the Prime Minister: a change of policies, state modernisation, participation in the international process, NATO, the European Union, the UN, with a voice, with a voice. It has, in fact, mentioned the common agricultural policy as an example. Only a structured government with vision can implement these things for the benefit of the Greek people. I would also like to say something that concerns my own region. The Prime Minister said that for the small islands, emphasis will be placed on infrastructure, on their energy autonomy. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, because we in Corfu also have the cross-cutting islands - I am ending, Mr President - which are shrinking populationly dangerous. They are in an important geopolitical position and we should look at them in particular in this programme. I would also like to say that in order to be able to go on the next day loudly, we should succeed in making our economy more competitive, our state becoming more competitive, more productive, more efficient. We have just heard from the relevant Minister in the area of digital reform. And, of course, it is not just digital reform. It is the fight against bureaucracy, the progress that will be made, the participation in new systems, new ideas, new ideas, new ideas, and, in a year from now, we have been happy to say that the country has gone beyond the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of our Government, our Programmatic Declarations. I will say, finally, SYRIZA's friends and friends, that it is not right ten days government to blame her for cynicism and authoritarianism and to pay her a lot of other surnames. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Gika. I would ask Mr. Athanasios Davakis to rise to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need first of all to thank through my heart the nine thousand five hundred and sixty-two Laconian fellow citizens who once again gave me the right and gave me the honour of being in your sight. At the same time, I would like to welcome the new colleagues, the many new members of all the wings, who, in their presence, their creativity and their youth courage, will enrich parliamentary dialogue, but will also give the institution of our democracy a good prospect. The New Democracy, this great popular party with the great strategic choices in the history of this place, is once again called upon to rectify our country and give a new dimension to its developmental and productive model. Yesterday's speech by the Prime Minister illustrated the reasons that the Greek people chose New Democracy as the next government of the country, but also confirmed the Greek people's hopes in this party, in the strategy that Kyriakos Mitsotakis welcomed on the basis of the cyberdynamics and all that compose our government program. Much needs to be done in a short time. There must be concrete measurable results, something that emerged out of the speech made by the Prime Minister yesterday afternoon and something which I believe will be the head of our spear, all of us, especially the colleagues of the New Democracy who will be the levers of support for the government project, the spearhead to Greek society. There must be tax and insurance relief, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, for individuals, for Greek farmers. There must be a general reorganization of all the ministries. I have listened very carefully to this very hopeful speech by Mr Pierracakis on the issues of the various sectors of the public sector. Indeed, we all see that many of the institutions of the existing ministries must change. They must be made up from the beginning. It is not possible today, in almost 2020, to have ministries operating in the past 50 years. One example is the ELGA case. I have listened very carefully to the Minister for Rural Development who spoke about the compensation issues of Greek farmers. ELGA, ladies and gentlemen - and they know better of the members of the urban centres from the province - is synonymous with the delays, with the injustices, with the unreliability on the part of Greek farmers, the farmers who, with their income, support the ELGA. You realise that Greek agricultural insurance must change. I have listened very carefully and with great hope to what Mr Vorides said about the direction and the privatisation of ELGA's insurance. The ELGA cannot function in this way as it works today. It's unacceptable. It is inconsistent with the obligations that Greek farmers are required to give to him. Also, with regard to the issues of illegal milk imports, systematic checks must be carried out. They have to start tomorrow. It cannot be more than fifty tanks enter from western Europe in Igoumenitsa and so much from northern Greece and destroy the PDO products of Greek agriculture and especially Greek livestock farming. Finally, there must be proper intervention in various ways on the subject of controls on imported products and, in particular, on milk. At the same time, with regard to the issues of forest maps, all colleagues from the Greek region are witnessing the suffering of Greek farmers, the citizens of the region, in this regard, as is the issue of the malfunctionings of the ECA, which is the Katorugalos Act, to which a solution must finally be found. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like what we are saying - and I am sure you will - to keep it, to look at the Minutes and to see that what we are saying is the resonance of the badness and pains of all the citizens who today trust us and are in your sight. I would like to mention, quickly, an issue which has affected the Laconian citizens, my fellow citizens, and that is the issue of transporting the nursing school from Sparta to Tripoli, and I would like the Minister for Education to be here, but I think she can hear it and read it. On Easter Eve, Gavroglou Law monastery, as the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, carries Sparta Nursing School in Tripoli, without any consultation, without any advice from the evaluation report on Sparta Nursing, without an economic study of this reason being carried from Sparta to Tripoli. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You realise that a fixed, basic request from the people of Latakia is to cancel this option. As the establishment of another law school in Patras has been cancelled, this arbitrary option must also be canceled, this great circumvention of the will of the Laconian citizens, but also of academic data, of the transfer of nursery from Sparta to Tripoli. I believe that this will happen and I want to hear it at the next meetings. Also, it is the question of the new museum of Sparta, which has taken a good road. It must be completed and progressed at short, hard pace. Reinforcement of health units. I insist on the issue of nursing because recently the managing director of the institution "Stavros Niarchos" spoke about the establishment of a new hospital in Sparta. And I say this because Mr Gavroglou was dependent on the transportation of the nursing school - and I come back to this issue - because there is no clinical training for existing student staff, students, in the existing hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u142	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u143	I shall conclude, Mr President. So you realise that when there is a specific perspective on the part of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, all of this can be solved. Security not only, ladies and gentlemen, in towns and neighborhoods Security and in our villages by various violating groups that upset the citizens of the Greek region. I want to say a few words about the defense. Great attention to the issues of personnel, the great multiplier power that our Armed Forces, the men and women of the Armed Forces have today, who keep the system up on earth, sea and air. Reorganisation, availability, - I cannot say much of this step on availability - and also on the defence industry. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the New Democracy has an ideology for which we are proud. There are problems, but these problems will be solved on the basis of our principles, our ideology and our history and for which we must be proud and with which we will be going in the next government period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. I would ask Mr. Theodore Dritsa to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Right, right, right, ladies and gentlemen, the political leaders and many other Members of Parliament have referred to the extremely important development for the Hellenic Republic of the expulsion from Parliament of the criminal Nazi organisation Golden Dawn. The Greek society has made it possible. Greek justice is in the process of a very serious and systematic process, a very fair and systematic trial. Those who have followed it can have a real picture. Whatever time it takes to complete this trial, it cannot reduce the seriousness with which this procedure is being conducted. The Greek society has, therefore, prevented and expelled this Nazi organisation from Parliament, even though the issues of racism, xenophobia and patriocapilia remain open, have many other versions and various manifestations. This, however, is a victory for the democratic tradition of Greek society and the great anti-fascist conquered conquest, with many years and great struggles that the Greek people have made. As far as the Prespecies are concerned, yes, the contradictions and revolts are given. The national line was implemented by the Embassy Agreement. The question is how to use this agreement. The prospect of dialectic cooperation, peace, understanding, co-development in the Balkans is the great bet for the new government, and it is also the big bet for the entire political world of Greece and for the Greek society, in all respects. So that is where the eyes should be turned to make use of the Prespecies Agreement. Everything else is prehistoric and stories about savages and not about the prospect of this democratic country. "Decade of regression," said Mr.Mitsotakis, whose end brings the election result. Really? Is that true? Did the "Truth Group" say that? Is this part of the 'Truth Agreement'? Does Greece actually have anything to do with the reality of 2019 with Greece of 2015? Is the ‘normality’, which, in all tons, you refer to, is the task of the government which, until the very beginning, was responsible for the country? So let's talk about receiving. First of all, the new government is receiving! The Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, received in the most official or most serious way from the outgoing Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. In 2015, the then Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras escaped as a blindman. He refused to deliver. We didn't receive it. In a lighter version of this happened with most of the ministries. We handed over and the new government got it. And it has received a Greece that has now come out of the great and huge consequences of bankruptcy, that is, it has shaped a field of debt regulation - criticism can be done by anyone who wants and wants, but that is true - and a fifteen-year runway. It has therefore regulated this basic condition. It has shaped the amount of security for the state's funds, it has shaped growth rates, those called 'anaemic', but which are unprecedented in the last decade and continuous and stable - it has shaped international credibility, etc. That is what the new government receives. Mr Varoufakis said yesterday that "he is the luckiest Prime Minister". It's humor, but it's true. So let us see these areas one by one. I'll talk mostly about the defense. High preparedness, calmness in the Armed Forces, consistency, confidence, moral high, army operating, deterrent readiness at a high level. Let us question this, ladies and gentlemen. Because the Defence Minister, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, has not only the reputation, but has shown it many times that he is mild tone and noble man, I am sure he will admit it. We owe it to the Armed Forces. Because it didn't happen by accident and it didn't happen without synergy. Indeed, it has been done by a left-wing government, as some people say - which has worked very systematically in this area too. And here comes the President-in-Office's decree giving authority to the new Secretary-General. We had a special secretariat for civilian staff, now the General Secretariat is being established. And the new Secretary-General, according to this presidential decree, is responsible for 'coordinating the General Staff of the Three Branches of the Armed Forces'! If this is not an insult to the authority and credibility and respect for the Armed Forces General Staff and the Chief, what is it? And if this is not confusing responsibilities and delays and not progress and modernisation, what is it? Along with this, the Single Administrative Sector since 1994 has been abolished and upgraded by a ministerial decision of 2018. A specific structure and responsibilities were established. It is the only inter-class service at the Ministry of National Defence for all civil servants in the fields of administration, education and research. Let's see what modernisation is and what it is because I heard the very decent Minister for Digital Policy a moment ago, which seems to be the case, but he did not say that for the first time in our country the Ministry for Digital Policy was founded and formed by the SYRIZA government. To see what modernisation means, what organised administration means and what continuity means in this direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. I don't have time to talk about shipping. As the Minister for Maritime Affairs has announced, he will tell us soon, I hope he will take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Dritsa, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u147	Just twenty seconds, Mr. President, please. Korydallus Prisoners are a request for decades, they have to leave. And we've already started. A large part of the Women’s Guardian Korydallos has been attributed to the municipality and has become a park. Fertilizers are a bigger issue than Mr Mitsotakis appears to own. It is not only the coastline that I had the honour as Minister with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and our government to render to the local municipality. Then we were accused of being against investing in the port and of re-stated PPA and now everyone celebrates fertilisers. But fertilizers are not only the coastline of the PPA, it's also the size of the National Bank...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Dritsa, you've been talking three minutes longer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u149	Panos Skourletis has made very big steps as Minister of State then there. And in this direction they are really all very interesting, the government's Programmatic Declarations do not give a tone of optimism, give a tone of reintroduction in the 2000s that led to bankruptcy, despite growth at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Drizza, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u151	Development without justice, development without reducing inequalities is neither sustainable. It is not fair, but it is not sustainable development, which is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much. Please keep the time. All right, now, Mr. Dritsa has escaped a little, but other colleagues will take the time to do so. I would ask the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Plakatakis, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek shipping represents the most extroverted sector of our national economy and one of the most important factors of our country's power, since it produces wealth, maintains thousands of jobs and gives strategic prestige to our country. I am here today to present to you the strategy, objectives and key priorities of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. In the maritime sector, the Greek merchant fleet is the largest in the world with four thousand nine hundred and thirty-six ships, with a capacity of three hundred and ninety million dead Weight. It is first in the world at a capacity of about 21%, first of all in the European Union at a rate of 53%. The Greek register numbered seven hundred twenty ships, about 15% on all Greek vessels. Of course, he is second in the European Union and eighth in the world. At the same time as the Greek fleet is developing, the Greek register is constantly falling and this is done in an international environment where there are wider geopolitical and geostrategic changes. Shipping is called upon to face major challenges in the international regulatory framework, in IT technologies where the landscape of shipping is changing, in the fluctuations in the market, in the problem of maritime finances. International competition, trade wars, new environmental data, new environmental regulations which will apply from 1-1-2020. And we all realise that something must obviously be changed with the Greek register. In order to achieve this objective, it needs to be substantially upgraded to the standards of organisation and functioning of the main competitions. For us the issues of simplification and digitisation will be matters of immediate priority. However, the register of the new era that we are visionary is not an end in itself, it is part of an integrated maritime policy which takes into account the improvement of the conditions of employability of Greek seafarers and the upgrading of maritime education. For us, the upgrading of public maritime education is a first priority. We all have to realise that maritime education is directly linked, but also decisively, not only to the preservation, but also to the strengthening of the know-how of the Greek seafarers, what we all recognize here and outside as the shipping of the Greeks. We are therefore moving forward in improving and modernising the existing regulatory framework governing maritime education by introducing a framework law for the organisation and operation of the whole of it. In other words, for the first time, we are dealing with issues of public maritime education. We also proceed to the immediate activation and operation of the KESEN of New Machinery in Macedonia, to the qualitative and quantitative upgrading of the human capital of our maritime education, both at the level of trainers and at the level of trainers. Modernising public maritime education will come from support for logistical infrastructure, internationalisation of curricula and, of course, from ensuring stable and experienced educational staff. Strategic selection and central objective of the Mitsotakis Government is a new architecture of the maritime education system in Greece. We are essentially supporting and investing in sustainability, modernisation, upgrading the pillar of public maritime education. We want public maritime education strong and we will achieve it. At the same time, however, our aim is to implement a new institutional framework for the promotion of private maritime education, in other words, in all modern internationally competitive shipping centres, the same practical practice to apply in our country, always within the framework of the service and benefit of the Greek seafarer and the Greek shipping industry. In our ports, in the field of port policy, we must realise that our ports can and must develop into the steam engines of the national and regional economy that are part of a single transport and supply system. To highlight these comparative advantages, a direct change in the country's port policy is required. To this end, we will move rapidly towards updating the national port strategy, taking into account the objectives, of course, of regional development. Our priorities are as follows: For the ten major regional ports we will, in each port separately, proceed to an assessment in viability studies, of course, in cooperation with the TEAD. We will also make it possible to leverage funding through the mobilisation of public, private and Community resources. We will speed up the completion of investment and development projects at the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki and will, finally, proceed - to rationalise the system of public bodies and structures dealing with ports. As far as marine tourism is concerned, we are investing and we will invest too much. So in this crucial area, which will take a decisive role, taking legislative initiatives, we will move forward in modernising and simplifying the institutional framework for the operation of pleasure boats, we will digitise procedures and, of course, we will improve its competitiveness. In other words, we will copy standards successful by other competing countries in the field of maritime tourism. We are also going on to restructure and solve problems in the vessel register so that it becomes a useful tool for national maritime tourism policy and not just a tool for non-developmental overtaxation, as has been the case so far. In other words, we want open seas for all, but under rules and respect for national and Community law. In the cruise sector, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and particularly with the Ministry of Tourism, we will do everything necessary to extend the home porting to the Greek ports and to involve companies in the industry's value chain. With regard to the Port House: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in March 2019 the Port House completed a hundred years of offer at the site. The Port Corps does not belong to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The Port House is the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy itself, and it is the unadulterated pillar of its efforts in every area of its competence. The Port House offers excellent services and effectively attempts throughout its area of responsibility with decisive actions such as research and rescue, surveillance and conservation of maritime borders, combating all illegal acts at sea, protecting the marine environment and, of course, maritime safety. It is also important to offer the Port House to the critical sectors of Merchant Shipping, such as representation in international shipping forums where Greece must and must have a leading role. Our aim, of course, is to strengthen the operational capacity of the Port Authority by ensuring the appropriate means, as well as the incorporation into its ranks, of the sense of security and recognition of its important and multi-level work. For these reasons, not a single euro should be lost for the Port House armament programme, for which money has been secured by the previous New Democracy Government - more than EUR 200 million - by mobilising resources from the NSRF, the European Union's Internal Security Fund and other financial instruments. National programmes, such as ERASH, the integrated maritime surveillance system in the south-eastern Aegean, obviously and should proceed quickly. They're late. In any case, however, they should proceed as soon as possible. And, of course, we will be preparing for the next 2021-2027 programming period with an integrated programme to strengthen the services of the Port Authority. In the maritime sector, we must be clear and clear. Coastal fishing contributes decisively to the cohesion of our national area. Our priority is to develop and upgrade the existing ferry network, while, of course, modernising the ferry fleet, always with a view to assessing modern transport data and addressing the challenges it will face with the implementation of the new environmental data from 2020 onwards. It is not a political innovation to talk about shaping and adopting a public policy on the island area. It is a constitutional check, and that is what we have to do. All we need to remember is that 18.7% of the total surface area of the country's territory consists of islands where there is a population of about 15.1% of the country's total population. In the context of the immediate priorities of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, it is the three-fold maritime economy - blue growth - islands as the building block of our island policy. Immediate priorities in the field of island policy are, therefore, the coordination of a national strategy for blue development, maintenance and extension of implementation of the insularity clause in draft legislation, assessment and rationalisation of transport equivalency, while adopting incentives or aid to improve island competitiveness. The insularity compensation should improve the competitiveness of enterprises and not create subsidised dependent economies. Finally, there will be a promotion of modern financial instruments for the implementation of island investments with leverage to implement necessary projects, transport infrastructure, energy, environment, water management, in the light of the cyclical economy, while at the same time seeking to mobilise funds directly through integrated territorial investments of the Structural Funds for the period 2021-2027. Ladies and gentlemen, the unilateral and in many ways ideological approach of the previous government to the issues of shipping, but also of island policy, has led to the country's loss of valuable time and strength. We, as the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, made it clear yesterday, do not have the luxury, but do not choose the policy of umbilical review. Greece must have the first say in the planning of the maritime agenda at world level. I am sure our country will play its part as a peaceful force for progress and development in the wider Southeast Mediterranean region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the programme provides, as has been predetermined, for four Members to speak, and then again Minister. He raised an issue and I would like the approval of this House. The two Deputy Ministers, Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Kumouchakos, must go to Paris. Their flight is soon. Therefore, instead of speaking four Members and one Minister, I would propose, with your permission, that two Members speak and then the ministers do so. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u155	That is what we agree with, so long as we keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much. So now Mr Giokas will speak from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u157	After the creation of the new governmental shape of the New Democracy, much was said about the infamous new model of governance: the ultimate state, the digital state. We have had technocrats, business executives, people from employers' organisations such as BSE, the government structure, electronic monitoring and evaluation of government work and much more that we have heard and heard these days. It will prove very quickly that all these so-called innovations will not change the lives of the people and the services provided to them, because all you are advertising and latexing as something innovative, not only is it not at all such, but it is part of a more comprehensive planning developed by the staff of the system, especially in the years of crisis and memoranda, which, as a central issue, posed the following: how the appropriate political staff, particularly the appropriate government personnel, will be created, but also throughout the entire chain of administration, which is detached and dedicated to the implementation of anti-grass policy, which is resistant to popular pressure and popular demand. Your stress is how in conditions of crisis, anaemic recovery, political instability and acute antagonisms - features that we are experiencing, regardless of what we hear about sustainable and dynamic growth - the urban state will be shielded first and foremost against the labour-popular movement and how it will become more friendly to the great capitalist profitability. So this is your stress rather than really serving people’s needs. It is no coincidence that in these two days we have heard nothing about taking measures and dealing with the enormous shortages in projects, infrastructures, staff leading to the State's deficits - in the major disasters in Matti and Mandra. And here all the debate on natural disasters is on number 112, which is, of course, important, but it is not just the solution to the problem or the number 112. Even the debate on the famous digitality and digital policy, then what do you and the previous ones remember? When the State is to collect, when the State is to suppress - see the electronic auction system introduced by the previous government - or when the State is to support major investment projects. This concerns digitisation and not the basic one that, in our view, should be, for example, a reduction in working time. This is idealism - the reduction of working time - which could be done through the use of science and technology. This is the reality and that is what the New Democracy has put forward, and it is pro-election: its determination to play this role as a party of birth - a nourishment of the system, unlike the newly-phrased SYRIZA, who, however, took four years of all the staff and centers of the establishment. In no case could the New Democracy show today this most authoritarian model of governance if the four-year period of SYRIZA hadn't taken place. SYRIZA was the one with the undermining of radicalism, with the legalisation of all the so-called anti-grass monologues from the memorial to NATO, with the depositation of markets, privatisations - ports and airports - the supposedly fierce investments, etc., cancelled positive reflexes that existed in the people and allowed New Democracy today to appear with the flag of the iron force to implement the same strategy. Also, SYRIZA - as much as today makes a superficial, in our view, criticism of the government - to a certain extent served the same goal for a political staff committed to this policy. Just yesterday, Mr. Tsipras said that it is not against the market for people to enter governmental shapes. It's enough, he says, there's no conflict of interest. Even the transformation, which is being promoted at the moment, of SYRIZA in a typical, classic social-democratic party, is essentially a part of this reform of the urban political system to play the bipartisan game and through the controversy of the individual and adequate differences between parties, to ensure consensus on the crucial and strategic issues. Yesterday by consensus nothing else. We have had years - especially in recent years - to see so mild and calm a climate in Programic Declarations. And it makes sense, since the ground for the current government has already been set up by the previous government. Why should we talk? For the work, which Mr Mitsotakis' dream already has in seven days - the signing of a previous government minister on a sectoral contract in the field of tourism? For tax, which one month before the election, all together have you voted on an amendment to the voluntary contribution of shipowners and to the reduction of taxation on shareholder dividends? And, of course, the New Democracy will continue to do so. For the doctrine of "law and order" made by the new government? Here, too, work has been done by the previous government. Just remember the introduction of the peculiarity for the mobilisations against the auctions or the strikeable law of Mrs Ahtsoglou? Because the doctrine of "law and order" is not only judged in Exarchia, it is judged above all at the workplaces and places of work. Of course, we are not discussing foreign policy, namely the country's participation in all the US and NATO plans. There was a consensus, particularly with Mr Katrugalos' speech, which was the first speech in SYRIZA's process of programming statements. From us - and I shall finish, Mr President - do not expect consensus, nor should we put back on this new regularity, because this normality is legalisation and the expansion of all those who have bleed the people for years. The JRC will do what it has committed itself, will lead in the organisation of the struggle to prevent the worst, to claim back all that we have lost who have been baptized and, above all, to contribute to the concentration of forces to overthrow this barbaric and deadlocked road, the capitalist development path.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mr Anastasios Publicakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, thank you and welcome the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome! Good start and good work! Since the elections of 7 July, the country has changed its page. With the self-reliance that New Democracy has achieved, it promises the self-evident: the country's return to normality and the people's hope, optimism, the smile that has been missing. Since the first day we have made our promise: united together to bring society forward with jobs, growth and security, in order to make Greece equal to the European family and strong in our region. In the morning, the Prime Minister announced a series of relief measures and progress. ENVIRONMENT has fallen since August by 22%. The tax on businesses is falling to 24%. Insurance contributions are reduced to 15%. VAT is falling from 13% to 11% and from 24% to 22%. All of this shows the moves of a government that had masterfully designed everything in perfection since the time it was in the opposition, with ready-made bills, substantial interventions and key changes in the state, a government that puts an end to the gas and investment, causing shocks, as our President has repeatedly promised, in order to create many good jobs to keep our best minds in Greece, a government which respects its election commitments, such as the vote of Greeks abroad which is established directly by law, despite the fact that our proposals have not been heard by the previous government. On the other hand, it cannot pass unnoticed that the Prime Minister announced five refreshment works for Attica and Thessaloniki. The intention is, respectively, to be in the rest of the country. It is clear, too, that great importance is attached to the issue of security in the country. Without peace, a state cannot make progress and long-term recovery. Families are like that. If we're having a disturbance in a family, it doesn't make any sense. What is a state? It's a big family. The peculiar siege that Athens accepted in its center is a black page in our political history, because it is the only capital of the European Union that does not shine. And that doesn't care for anyone. No more tolerance to lawlessness in Greece. Our homeland will no longer be the best criminal destination. The universities of the country are not warriors, nor are they shelters for those who practice violence and crime. A cross-party study and national security policy need to be drawn up in our country so that we can all follow it. This is how regularity exists in the Member States of the European Union, whose family we belong to. I would, however, like to dwell more on my law, Evros, as well as on the agony of its inhabitants, because the existence of Athens and the country depends on the wellbeing of the remote and island regions. The Jews believed the New Democracy, voted in favour of it simply and strongly renewed their trust in my face for the third time, and I thank them from the Greek Parliament. Unfortunately, the rich dowry of this neural and sensitive area has been untreated for four and a half years. The primary sector, such as agriculture, livestock and fisheries, has been neglected. Also, man was generally despised in every function. The Democritus University of Thrace, which is a pillar of development and progress of all Thrace and of eastern Macedonia, was targeted and shrinked. The Eastern Macedonia and Thrace TEIs should not be subject to the International University of Thessaloniki, but you did not hear us. Mr Tsipras, in fact, insists on the law of Patras. It goes beyond the objections of the legal world and the legal schools, forgets the lack of a feasibility and sustainability study and, at the same time, continues to despise Thrace. The association of transport was untapped and the node of Evros was forgotten. Businesses and strategic factories closed down, such as sugar in New Orestiad and not only. Now, however, Evros and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace will again be put to the fore. As our Prime Minister said, all the issues relating to our wider region will be dealt with as national issues. As a Member of Parliament, I have raised with my word the visionary triple, which also updated out loud in the national elections: firstly, defence and security in Evros, secondly, progress and development in the county and, thirdly, regeneration of our villages so as not to eradicate the lights in the villages. To turn off lights in the villages of the rest of the country, it's a matter, it's a problem. To erase them, however, near the border in Evros and our islands, is national, crime. Against this tripartite, which I have always indicated, was always the outgoing government. The former Minister of National Defence, leaving, wanted to make discounts on the structural shape of the major formations of the Armed Forces, achieving a key blow to the defense of Evros. Armored Evros means strong Greece. Greece has received a peaceful invasion, using man in need. Immigration and refugee routes are often similar to warlords, and we must not forget that. That's what history teaches us. The neighbouring country has located our vulnerabilities and can exploit them. Our government, however, has already made important decisions on the migration and refugee issue. Our land and sea borders in Evros and the Aegean will be kept effectively, and with the help of the new operational structure of FRONTEX, Member States of the European Union. Progress and development in Evros means ensuring a strong reserve and an experienced ethnic guard, together with the regular Army, the Greek army in case of national involvement. So the tax environment must be investment-friendly, which will have an impact on our aesthetic prefecture. So we are moving forward together for the next day, Mr President, and we are looking forward. The country's progress is a national matter. The bet will be won with Prime Minister Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u160	Finish it, Mr. Pilgrim. You've exceeded time by two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u161	I am voting in favour, Mr President, to all the government. And I think that this must also be done by the forces who are aware of the dangers that the country is facing, because there will unfortunately not be another opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. Please ask Mr Kumucako, the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from 20 June to 20 July only on three islands of the north-eastern Aegean - Lesvos, Chios and Samos - we had about three thousand two hundred arrivals of immigrants and refugees. The flow of that time last year was about two thousand people. So we've got a 30% increase in the last month. In the previous months, and over the whole front, from Evros to the islands of the Aegean Sea, flows have a strong growth trend. We are not today, of course, in the dramatic situation and the dramaticity of the events of 2015-2016. However, the criticality of the situation remains. The effective response of immigration remains a challenge for Greece, a great challenge for the Greek state and for the Greek society. Europe-wide management of immigration proves to be a complex, serious and complex issue. The latter, moreover, confirms this: a few days ago in Helsinki, a few days ago in France, which is being organized by the French Government on a temporary basis. Migration is testing fundamental principles and values, but also our will and our ability to protect the peace, the development of our societies and, of course, the great good of their security. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] The refugee - immigration - is at the same time a complex geopolitical issue, especially in the Eastern Mediterranean. And when we say Eastern Mediterranean, we primarily mean Greece. Our country is disproportionately exposed, as in addition to the morphology of its territory, because of its insularity, it is also an external border of Europe, and this in a wider region, which is prone to tensions, frictions, conflicts, low growth but high demographic outburst. The explosive combination! Indicative of the problem facing the country, I mention that in 2018 alone around seventeen thousand asylum claims were recorded in Lesvos, more than at the same time in Austria. In Samos there have been six thousand seven hundred fifty, more than Finland has recorded at the same time. Cyprus is also facing problems, which is why on Tuesday we are going to meet here in Athens with my Cypriot counterpart, to discuss together their challenges and ways of dealing with them. The situation that we have received in the islands and in the mainland is from an exceptional problem to a genuinely tragic one and, in any case, unsustainable one. A real offense for the country, as well as a source of reasonable concern and indignation and insecurity for the inhabitants of the islands, such as Lesvos, Moria and Samos, in Vathy, which we visited forty-eight hours after the government's oath, the Minister of Public Order and I. This, despite the enormous and commendable efforts made by the porters, the police, the staff working in the reception and identification centres, but who have been dissipating, not only from people but also from problems, from enormous inadequacies, ruthless organisation and lack of efficiency. Motivating human stories coexist with violent behavior and crime of all kinds and gravity. It is a matter of moral, political and practical importance to unaccompanied minors. The situation that we have received here is far beyond heartbreaking. Meanwhile - and this is particularly worrying - new migratory flows and roads have been identified, such as the sea runway Alexandroupolis - Samothrace. What we inherited is expected to exert additional pressure, as weather conditions favour flows. And this, along with the wider geopolitical developments, obliges us to be more vigilant. At the same time, things in Europe are going on slowly, reaching agreement on the new legal framework for asylum policy is not easy and the same is true - that is, difficulty in deciding - and on a solidarity mechanism for reallocating the burden which the Member States are mainly burdening on first-line Member States. Against all this, the Greek state up to 7 July gave up a Ministry of Migration Policy exist on paper but almost undetectable in reality. The friendly efforts of some people have been left unrealistic, inefficient, lost in a bad administrative patchwork, fragmented in six different buildings in the wider region of the capital, with human resources, multi-dimensional, with different recruits and knowledge. And all this, of course, is built on the bare and dangerous background, and they go, they go, that is, on the ideological political philosophy of chaos, which Mrs Tasia Christodoulou inherited the successors. A notion that marked, however, and poisoned SYRIZA's subsequent immigration policy. So you understand why the Prime Minister of the country has highlighted this problem as one of the main issues for the new government, one of its major priorities. In the first few days, there has been a joint meeting with Mr Mitsotakis and the presence of the European Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos, who has made a great contribution to dealing with the problem both in Greece and in Europe. We also proceeded with the planning of a coordinating body at the level of Secretary-General of the Ministries concerned, which will meet regularly in the first week of each month. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to deal effectively with the difficult problem of immigration, the country urgently needs a coherent and comprehensive strategy that starts from the deterrent, goes to the protection and management of borders, reaches the granting or non-asylum, and ultimately reaches the integration policies of those who are legally staying in the country. A strategy that will be developed both internally and abroad, but also with action measures at parallel levels: legislative, operational level, level of infrastructure and human resources, public diplomacy, in order for the country to transmit the right messages internally and abroad. Our policy begins and is defined by a fundamental assumption. In managing this complex issue, every democratic state must take into account two interrelated factors: respect for human rights on the one hand and respect for and defending the good of security on the other. Our aim is to establish a political and operational link between these two principles. The indifference and devaluation of security - the practice in Greece has shown - is ultimately at the expense of human rights. Moria, Vathy and several years ago the unacceptable image at the old airport of Greek and Danish icon Icon. The ideological relaxation eventually crushes human dignity, offends the rights of both those who come and the rights of the Greeks who live in their homeland and seek safety in an environment of social peace in order to develop economic, personal, business. So against the ideological slackness that undermines rights, we are proposing the democratic rigour that respects rights and rules. In particular, our policy is made up of a number of objectives and actions. On the inside, strengthening the borders, strengthening the preservation of the common Greek and European borders, in particular seas with a new integrated plan, upgrading the necessary infrastructure and strengthening the human resources mandate, where necessary, at the entry and exit points of the country. In this context, our cooperation with FRONTEX and the International Organisation for Migration must be stimulated and given greater substance. By the end of the year, the legal basis and the legal framework for granting asylum is reformed to examine the asylum seekers' applications and to deal with them quickly so that those who have the right to know it quickly and those who illegally entered the country know that they will enter a fragile and decisive return programme. In the same way, we are also stepping up the appeal committees to a second degree and deepening our cooperation with the EASO and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Also, there is the will to implement a firm and effective return schedule for those who do not have the right to stay in Greece. In the previous period this process by the previous government was characterised by a very low rate of implementation, so that the country loses credibility when it went to Europe and asked for solidarity and support. But not just against Europe. We have also lost credibility with Turkey, which invokes this low rate every time we criticise it for the poor and inadequate implementation of the joint declaration of the European Union of Turkey. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, this is a big deal. We are improving living conditions for refugees and immigrants in our country with main concern for vulnerable groups and with priority for the protection of unaccompanied children, a tragic issue. In Samos, for the better management of the current unacceptable situation, and in order to dismantle the island as quickly as possible, with a strict separation of refugees and illegal immigrants who must be returned, we are creating a new reception and identification centre - the previous government has started it, but it must be done - in order to relieve the urban fabric of the capital of Samos, which at the moment looks like a besieged city. We also proceed with the implementation of the decision on security staff in inland structures. At the external level we attach particular importance to our cooperation with the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union and we seek more substantial cooperation on the basic principle of solidarity and responsibility. I participated on Thursday in the informal Helsinki Council and stressed Europeans who want to concentrate at the moment on the Central Mediterranean...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Kumucaco, a little faster, 'cause you're gonna miss the plane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u165	Previously, you were not in the Chair, Mr President. All the speakers have spoken very flexibly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u166	It's all right, let me be a little tougher, but we have to have Mr. Kumucasakos and Mr. Varvitsiotis catch a plane to Paris.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u167	I'm the one that's in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u168	And Mr. Varvitsiotis is in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u169	Now I understand that because of sensitivity you want to end my arguments because you were managing it before that, but you will allow me to develop it all. [[Noise in the Chamber]] In particular, this mechanism of solidarity is urgent and, unfortunately, it is a problem that the Dublin IV agreement has not gone ahead. We also need not only better reallocations, but a European refund system and there we have three principles: combined refunds - so that there are political weight when they are returned - not only with one state, but combined return operations. Also, recognition of returns between states. Finally, a system of penalties for third countries not cooperating with the European Union and the Member States - when these refunds are to be implemented. We insist on the full implementation of the declaration by the European Union and Turkey on the management of immigration and the decongestion of the islands and we expect better cooperation with the Turkish authorities, the eradication of the networks of illegal traffickers, better surveillance and efficiency of flows from Turkey to Greece, as well as the prevention of the creation of new migration routes, such as the one between Alexandroupolis and Samothrakis. The strategic framework that I have just described to you, ladies and gentlemen, clearly demonstrates the Government's willingness to progress decisively and with a plan in a policy that, as I said, respects human rights and the need for Greeks to live safely, calmly and with a view to their homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u170	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u171	This all needs a plan, but also a political will. Both have them, as has emerged from the Programmatic Declarations read by the Prime Minister, as I would like to believe it results from everything that I have just explained to you to address a national problem that is fundamentally facing the country and which will be with us for a long time if we do not make rapid and decisive moves. For us it is a challenge, but we are determined to respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Kumucaco, I want to tell you this. In relation to your abstention to the Bureau, I have not intervened for the very simple reason that I honour the institution of the Bureau. I will need three minutes to answer your 15-minute speech, which took the time of a Member from the speakers. We shall proceed as follows: Mr Tsakalotos has asked for the floor for a minute, then Mrs Constantina Adamou will be speaking from Mera25, then Mrs Aleka Papagasa from the JRC, and then we will make a small request for Mr Varvitsiotis to speak, because Mr Koumoutsaskos and Mr Varvitsiotis must leave for Paris for the meeting on immigration. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, in his speech Mr Kumucakos spoke about the credibility of the previous government for immigrants. But he didn't say anything about the Vizigrad countries. He said nothing about the fact that these countries have prevented a flow, as has been agreed. He did not say anything about European policy. I think we should agree that this is also at European level and discuss how it will be done. Secondly, I would like to point out that I am taking everything from the Secretary-General of the JRC who yesterday made a point that I had not noticed, namely that you are focusing on your ministry even forensics. They're not independent. How do you understand that? Can I give you another example? Is it possible that schools in prison could be a matter of policing? So these kids who want a second chance, who want to study, do something in their lives, are it possible that they don't have the feeling that this is the Ministry of Education and that they can feel a security? Thirdly, to return to your point and end with that, Mr President, is it possible for the Ministry of Migration Policy only to be a matter for the police and your ministry? So it's not about the integration of people, social policy? Isn't this a matter of education? Isn't that a matter of health? Where and how should migration and immigration policy be under your police and ministry? This is a centralisation that doesn't match the movement 'We live in Europe', because in Europe it doesn't do it, and you know it. Anyway, tell us what the limits of this ministry are. Will it also be responsible for education and health and immigration?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u175	Is there a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u176	I should like to reply on the substance, because I am going to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u177	There is no point in the matter. You made a 15-minute speech. Excuse me. In fact, next to you is Mr Varvitsiotis who is going to talk next, who was responsible for the immigration when you were opposition. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u179	We're not going to open a new circle, Mr. Kumucaco. No, it can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u180	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u181	It can't be done. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u182	Just because I'm going to leave, I have to answer in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u183	Can Mr Varvitsiotis answer, another Member of the New Democracy may answer, the Prime Minister may answer. There's no such thing as that. Alas, if we have a word like that. No, because we'll create a precedent. You haven't been helping me since the first time. I'm not talking about you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, for thirty seconds. The President-in-Office who was in the Chair before you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u185	Say it, Mr. Kumucako, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u186	Mr Tsakhard, as far as the Visegrad countries are concerned, the Visegrad countries have been led to this unacceptable policy because it is not in line with Community solidarity, but before, the closure, the'saving' of the Balkan corridor, do you know why it emerged? It was the compulsive result of Europeans in politics'remove, melt, come out'. This created the need for Europeans to seal the Balkan corridor. It was an answer to your own policy. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] As regards the accession policy, the accession policy you have said, I announced that there will be coordination once a month with the Secretary-General of all the ministries in order to cover all aspects. As to why various issues have been raised at the Civilian Ministry, you will be answered by the Minister of Citizen Protection. You saw that I was very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u187	You will have the misfortune not to hear my own speech when I speak as a Member. Mrs. Adamus from Mera 25 has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating the New Democracy on its success in taking over the country's governance. But I see, Prime Minister, that you come to the government with two luggage-filled commitments. One is to the lenders and the fewer and the other to the most reactionary wings of NATO and the European Union. The destruction of Halkidiki with gold mining is within the commitments to the fewer and the lenders. You said quite rightly on June 5 on World Environment Day: “The only Greek environment does not belong to us. We're his guardians. It is our debt to the generations that have passed and our reserve to the generations that will come. A wealth that we do not have the right to consume, but we have an obligation to maintain." But once again, Mr Mitsotakis, your words are inconsistent with your actions. The company that makes mining in Halkidiki has now been found to be a auditor and large fines have been imposed by the authorities responsible for infringements and for criminal waste management. Three forest habitats, primitive forests with eternal acids and oak, unique in Greece, but also many other varieties of trees were completely destroyed and dehumidated. As much as restorations are done, the eternal forest is not restored. In the short term, neither the aquifer nor the ground will be restored. Protection of the environment does not only mean abolition of disposable plastics. It means that the people of Halkidiki will not be at risk every day from cancer and other diseases caused by air pollution. Development does not mean destruction of tourism, perhaps of the most important sector of our economy, as is now happening in the region for the sake of mining in order for the fewer people to be rich. For the first time this year, the Halkidiki Army beach lost its blue flag from the mining, due to heavy water pollution. New jobs, as you have said, means that tourism workers will be forced to become miners? I heard you say that you love your country. What does love mean? Does it mean that our eternal beautiful Halkidiki will turn into a third world mine of open mining, like what we see in films that reflect destruction, exploitation, pain and ultimately misery? I'm sorry! I'm sorry why we don't give love the same meaning. This is the difference of disastrous neoliberalism from the creative word of realistic disobedience, which the Greek people have given us the mandate to articulate within the Greek Parliament. Real disobedience means love in democracy and condemnation of fascism. I have heard you welcome as a victory for democracy the fact that the Nazi structure is no longer in Parliament. But antifascism does not only mean beautiful proclamations. It means justification of those who fought the Nazis and condemnation of his appalling acts. In our country there is a right to claim Germany's debts to Greece. I am referring primarily to the forced mortgage that Germany imposed on Greece during the Second World War, but also to the German compensation of the victims of the Nazi atrocities, as well as the disasters suffered by our country's economy from which we cannot exclude our illegally removed archaeological and cultural goods. After the struggles of an entire movement that lasted for generations, the government of Samaras and the then Minister, Mr Stagiras - and his good for this movement - was forced to order the General Accounting Office of the State to assess the amount of debts. After recurring and three intergrouping committees we have come to have the conclusion which values the size of our claims at EUR 309, billion on the basis of the Paris Conference and about EUR 270 billion on the basis of archive material before interest. With interest this amount becomes huge. The previous House a few months ago committed almost unanimously to claiming these claims. I would therefore draw your attention and stress that a committee should be set up to deal with the parliamentary diplomacy of claiming Germany's debts to Greece. It is a claim that cannot have any luck without a communication campaign in which brave funds will be made available to make the issue understandable and likeable to the international public. But our country must also prove its determination to demand and finally be authorized to execute final decisions by the Minister of Justice. And that is what the government needs to do, not to change the codes with attitudes of declining human rights. Only in this way will the diplomatic, political and legal claim of the debts. To conclude, I come from a martyrial place, the Chortiatis of Thessaloniki, which will shortly honor the 75th anniversary of its terrible holocaust. For all of us who come from all the martial places of Greece and all the Greeks, claiming Germany's debts to Greece is a matter of memory and justice. The German state in which you, Mr Mitsotakis, and you, Mr Tsipras, are fully committed, is basically responsible for the degradation of Europe and, at the same time, the degradation of the claims, the debts to Greece. Let us not forget that the more countries like Greece are suffocating, the more Europe will fall. This is my reference to the second baggage of the new government. Justice is the dignity of our people and dignity is prosperity. We are here to prove that the well-being of the many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u189	Mrs Papariga has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece, which will speak from her position. Here you go, Mrs. Pappiga.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u190	As is well known, the Communist Party of Greece is facing the battle for the national elections - the bourgeoisie, as we - parliament, as a serious political battle that we are, however, only integrating it into the main front for which we are very responsible, on the front of the effort to organise and develop the working people's opposition, to develop and increase the class struggle on the road to the break-up and overthrowing of this system. And in this sense we also call on the people to vote for the Communist Party of Greece. We cannot agree with what we usually hear in this House, not only the next day after the elections, but throughout the meetings, that the elections are the road and the proof that there is popular sovereignty in Greece, that the national Parliament is the temple of democracy. When the people are completely alienated from the means of production, from the wealth they produce, from the wealth that exists in this country, on earth, underground, sea, underwater, on the islands, on the mountains, there is no question of popular sovereignty. Every time the election battle, regardless of who takes the baton, and who delivers it, is an additional proof that the concepts of "local sovereignty", "equity", "individual freedom" are a real genocide, as is the equality established by our Constitution. Undoubtedly, the New Democracy took rule under normal conditions in the elections. No one says that the elections were not normally held. He took the veritable party of the capital, the original party of the bourgeoisie, the original party of anti-communism. This isn't the first time we've said it. If I added it, it is because a very reliable person, to me at least, Mr Kyranakis, one of the youngest members of the New Democracy and Parliament, who was voted as Secretary-General, said on a show - I did not hear it personally, I was told - that we cannot forget that the Communist Party of Greece was killing Greeks during the occupation 1941-1944. I think Mr. Kyranakis has confused EAM and the Communist Party of Greece, ELAS with Tsaus Anton, with the hoodmen who indicated which communists, which anti-fascists should be killed. He confused the JRC and the NRC with the action of the EDPS and Zerva. Anyway. We are doing another reading on this election result. The New Democracy started with an easy way. And that's why, in her first appearance, she was so mild. I don't know how it'll turn out in the process. He took the spoon from a rug that SYRIZA left with the barbaric anti-grass measures he added when he took the spoon from the previous governments. Of course, for the people, that carpet exists. It's full of thorns, thorns, stones. It's a very rough carpet, very difficult carpet that can't walk it undisputedly. The Secretary-General and other Members of the Communist Party of Greece have already made objective criticisms and amplified about what is to come during the governance of the New Democracy. The New Democracy is going to the established path of all the projects that have been voted on over the last decade. Their procurer was before the crisis. On this road it will pave the ever more savage conditions for the people, the so-called recovery, the development of capitalist profitability. It has been shown that this capitalist system, the civil system cannot function only with its original party if there are no parties like SYRIZA and others that we have known, for one use, which, with their disagreements, enable the system to close its wounds with each other. Some wounds were opened with the half-step the people took in the June 2012 elections. They would give SYRIZA a way out if the New Democracy were to lose and suppress PASOK. And SYRIZA really took it very well. By the way, I would like to add the following. SYRIZA repeatedly accused and accused the Communist Party of being a party reluctant to put his hands on fire, while he himself undertook to put his hands on fire by taking over rule. Now I don't want to dwell on the KIC's 100-year-old story. I don't think I need to say anything in this Chamber. After all, on the anniversary of the hundred years, we had a great open and wide discussion with the people on our whole 100-year-old course, by highlighting our role, with our self-criticism where it was necessary. I would like to point out, however, that whoever says that the Communist Party of Greece does not put its hands on fire proves to be superfluous that it has no idea what the organization of class struggle means, in any circumstances, at all times, either in the circumstances that civil parliamentary democracy operates with its terminology or under conditions that civil parliamentary democracy for a number of reasons has some breaks. It's the greatest proof. It is easy to take the lead, the organization, the support of workers' struggles. Ask communists and other fighters who worked with us how easy it is to strike a factory? How easy is it to raise a head? Ask them. Fear, when unemployment even rises. Is this road easy? And on this occasion I would say that the New Democracy, of course, did the so-called mild anti-communism. How did he do it? With a processed tactic. And we have emphasised it many times. Accusing SYRIZA of communist idealism. I do not consider the New Democracy and the leadership of the political illiterate. No way. Not even Mr. Mitsotakis, who has often said it, is politically illuminated. It was politically appropriate to find the way to make the anti-communism and to make its confrontation with the party that took the bite from his mouth, especially when he received the congratulations of the sometimes very narrow allies. But we also got PASOK. Mrs. Gennimata 100 times in the House and in her speeches she said that SYRIZA is the neo-communist party. This is also a form of anti-communism. In that sense, I would like to raise a point of order from now on. We in the last elections we recognised - we do not like the big words - that there is a preservative course today in Greece. We have said so in the last election. Not only because New Democracy took the baton, but we are talking about a comprehensive and deeper preservative. Of course, it is not just a Greek phenomenon. It's European and global. I am not going to dwell on the global and European objective, international conditions. However, it is important that this should be done. We're on which side. The people, the voters of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the other parties, regardless of what everyone had in mind when they went to vote, regardless of how deep they agreed or identified the parties, regardless of whether they voted in favour of a project or simply voted as a protest to leave each other, actually gave legal status to objectively and ten-year-old measures and what they are about to come. A lot of the people don't believe that. Now the New Democracy comes out and says 'I have self-responsibility'. SYRIZA comes out and rightly says "you say I screwed up, but I didn't miss much". However, the voters of these parties who, for various reasons, have voted as they have voted - do not blame and inconvenience because we know how free the choice is and will - have the right to oppose their vote, without any statement of repentance being made about it. They have every right to award the programmes and policies of the parties that they have voted on. I'm ending up saying this. We always know the role of the original and genuine child of the bourgeoisie, of the New Democracy now, of the EPE and other parties. It should be stressed that there were two phases in modern Greek history in which the path of alteration of any radical consciousness that an important part of the people possessed was taken. This alteration would not be possible with law and order, with anti-communism, for New Democracy to do so. The first period is 1981. Do not forget with what slogans PASOK has gone up and what has happened since 1985. Except that the PASOK had the potential at that time of capitalist development and under conditions that the New Democracy could not make painless reforms that did not affect the system, it was able to carry out important reforms that were objectively taken into account in the consciousness of the people, or which became a certain temporary better distribution of income. For SYRIZA, it's nothing final. And we don't think it's final. As far as the people are concerned, not with regard to the SYRIZA course. SYRIZA's done. He became a Social Democratic Party. We're done. But SYRIZA gave a decisive blow to any radicalism that he had contributed with the great words of an antimony struggle with the "go back" - instead of "go away" - Mrs Merkel and something like that. And he did so in this way, not only by the measures he has brought, but by ideology and practice, 'that is possible'. There is no alternative to the people. What's there? Different poverty management mixtures, different wealth management mixtures. I conclude by saying this: The contradictions - I am not talking about class objections because they do not concern the large majority of the House, the class inequality - which, from the innermost point of view, shows the capitalist system itself will become the subject of a dispute for various management mixes. One of these is that Turkey is a strategic partner of Greece and at the same time disputes sovereign rights, that is, it disputes borders. Secondly, the so-called 'fourth industrial revolution', which will create a huge problem, whatever the government, in all urban governments, in capitalist states. We're not against technology. We're against the technology owner. The "fourth industrial revolution" leads where Davos and other tools of imperialism have demonstrated: the global underutilization of human power. And because no government can manage the unemployment problem of 50% and 60%, the working relationship jungle and the even cheaper labour force not only as a reward, but as modern needs, as health, education, free time, culture, etc., will be problems that will increase. We know him on our way to wrestling. We're teachings. What we are going to do, beyond our obligation in this House to hear the voice for the interests of workers, is to continue on the main and main road, on the path of our contribution to the development and increase of class struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u191	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor now. After Mr Varvitsiotis we will follow the procedure: 'We shall break' that after the Minister does not speak of a Member of the New Democracy. Mrs. Iatridis, Mr. Kokkalis, will speak and then we will continue to do so. At the end of the third cycle, i.e. after the speech according to my programme before me, Mr Bouba, the parliamentary representatives will speak. I estimate that this will be done - so that the parliamentary representatives will also know - in about one and a half hours from now. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Greece and the Greeks have proved with bloody sacrifices that we want to be part of the core of European integration. In our part, this DNA comes from its payments, because it is the historical nature of Constantine Karamanlis who, in a persuasive sense of the time, has incorporated the country into the European family, with the aim of consolidating national independence, guaranteeing democracy, achieving economic growth and, of course, social and economic progress. What we have to do in the context of Europe is catch the thread of growth and deepen our bilateral relations within the institutions, not to be the awe of the European system, but to be the ones who come with solutions, taking part in the fertile European dialogue. We have lasted ten years of the crisis to remain in the hard core of the European Union. Europe itself - and it appeared in recent European elections - has resisted, resisted the forces of populism and questioning. Now, of course, we have to go to the next stage, that is to say, to deal with the problems and challenges that are coming. The dominant challenge is the new Multiannual Financial Framework, namely the tool through which the Greek economy will be financed in the coming years. In this debate we are prepared to claim what we can, because Greece is a country that has suffered a very large reduction in its GDP, and this must be taken into account and taken of the two policies which traditionally form the core of the European Union: the Cohesion Fund and of course the common agricultural policy. Apart from that, however, we believe that in policies that have now been put on the table and have even sat on the table head, such as policies to tackle the refugee and immigration issue, we must increasingly ask. We are sending out a message that today Greece will also implement Community and national law in relation to refugee and immigration, that our country will cease to be the country that does not guard its borders or the country where anyone comes will remain for a long time. Of course, we demand not only financial support but also political support from our partners. We claim it and we will claim it in all respects, because we believe that equal sharing of the burdens borne by these issues should be done within the framework of solidarity and European cohesion. I will say to you, of course, that there is also a new opportunity window open: the development of the European Defence Fund, which is costing EUR 13 billion. We must come here with two frameworks of claim. First of all, our national position, our geography, the threats that our national area accepts and, of course, the need to strengthen our defence industry. We do not believe in a multi-speed Europe. This leads only to the rise of populism and nationalism. We believe in a Europe that goes together, which applies common rules of law and, of course, a Europe that gives prospects for its enlargement, particularly in our neighbourhood, to the Western Balkans. That is why we have always supported and supported Turkey's European path, even though it has entered the ice under Turkey's own responsibility, which shows neither good neighbourly relations nor recognition of Member States of the European Union nor, of course, the behaviour it displays in Cyprus, especially in these days and with these declarations, by insulting even the memory of thousands of the dead of the Cypriot invasion. We do not accept the results of this invasion. We will fight for all European and international fora to find a solution to the Cyprus issue and of course we will stand next to the Republic of Cyprus in the fight it does to exploit its underwater wealth, of course by ensuring its European path. I would like to say at the end a few things about the Prespecies Agreement, because yesterday the former Prime Minister and Mr Katrugalos and many others, even her architects, such as Mr Kotzias, who is not in Parliament - I wonder why the architects and the main pillars of this agreement are not in this Parliament - have referred to it and I think there is a great misunderstanding. Some people, moving from Maximos, took the modeling with them and did not hear - at least as far as I am concerned - the whole of my speech the other day at the ECONOMIST conference, where I made it clear. I have made it clear first of all that this agreement is a bad agreement and that this agreement has been fought by the New Democracy and has done everything possible to prevent openness from being signed and ratified, because we do not think that it has been beneficial to national interests. However, this agreement is an inheritance that this government receives with all other problematic inheritances that it receives from the government of SYRIZA, SYRIZA - ANEL, SYRIZA - Independents, SYRIZA - other components. As you inherit us the commitments for the major primary surpluses, as you inherit us a PPC - a time bomb, so you inherit us a bad agreement with which we must work in close margins to make its results much better. Two are the fields in which we have to work. The first is the scope of the economy, namely the question of businesses and products, which we must strengthen, we must give the impetus that we need, of course, at European level, to guarantee their authenticity. The second is the question of autism. Here we want to send out a clear signal that we will be in a continuous process of monitoring and the evolution of the provisions of this agreement. But - and even more - when the European path of the northern neighbour to the European Union opens, then at every stage we will be there to monitor, because we want the Western Balkans to move forward towards Europe, but without discounts, nor on matters of deflection, nor on matters relating to the rule of law. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the rule of law is not just an idea. It is the basis on which our common European future will be built. Today, we have seen from the countries of Visegrad that their internal operation will present significant reductions from the application of a rule of law. So as the rule of law in the European environment, with the independence of institutions, the independence of justice, the function of freedom of the press, the operation and independence of parliament, the Western Balkans should also function in the same way. And it will be a long way to go for European integration. I would like to say to you clearly that I and all our colleagues in the government - and we are addressing it to all our compatriots - will work to ensure that, with regard to the international agreements signed by the previous government, we do everything possible at international level and we will use all our negotiating weapons to ensure that their terms - and I am referring specifically to the Ambassadors' agreement - and also to the reality that we are experiencing as a result of this agreement, become more favourable to our country and, of course, to resolve any loose ends even today, our national interests. Let us not go ahead and say that we are signing the Treaty of Ambassadors. We inherited her. We will try in the narrow context that it describes to improve the reality that it creates and we will do so consistently, labour, international alliances and without jeopardising the country's position, because any other policy would mean that we would have lost our basic weapon that was the veto for Macedonia's NATO membership, and on the other hand we would have lost the interim agreement, which provided for the way in which this state is represented in international organisations. We have said this clearly to the Greek people before the elections and we have received the consent of the Greek people and the people of Macedonia for this. I'm telling you, too, as a Macedon gene. We are sure that by imposing our historical heritage, the Greek products coming from Macedonia, supporting the Greek companies that bring to their products the name "Macedonia" and, of course, by monitoring the course within the European Union, we will even be able to make it better for Greek citizens, for national claims, for Greek businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u193	The credit of the Bureau to Mr Varvitsiotis, because he was the fastest in his time. Have a nice trip! Mrs. Iatridis from New Democracy, please, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by wishing everyone good luck in the difficult work that the Greek people have done to us from whatever position we are. I would also like to thank my compatriots and compatriots for the honour they have given me to trust me with their representation in the Greek Parliament. As I will always give my best self for the place I love, for all the Dodecanese and all the Dodecanese. Ladies and gentlemen, with their vote in the elections of 7 July, the citizens gave a clear and self-sufficient mandate to the New Democracy to implement its programme, a programme that comes to meet the challenges facing the country at a difficult time, at a time when the Greek people have high expectations of seeing their labors and sacrifices rewarded. The result of the elections showed in the most absolute way that citizens want rapid steps, immediate reactions and a lot of work from all of us. Already, since the first moment that the New Democracy and our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the responsibility of the country's governance, they showed citizens that they were also preparing for immediate reactions and rapid steps. Already since the first moments after the government made its oath, its main initiatives and actions were known on the basis of the programme that we submitted to the Greek people's crisis before the elections. And from reading the Programming Declarations by the Prime Minister, but also the Ministers, it is clear that all commitments we made to the Greek people will fulfil them in full. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Dodecanese, I would like to focus on the Aegean islands, because our islands are starting our Greece. The greatest challenge facing and facing for many years the island site has been the territorial uncontinuation. This territorial discontinuity makes it objectively difficult to implement the development policy on the island. This is why we need respect for the specificities of each island, but also a holistic approach to the island area. In my view, the previous government in its rhetoric, but also in its policy, had chosen - especially in its early years - to separate the islands into large and small, rich and poor, in tourist and non-Tourist. But this approach was clearly bisexual, clearly unfair. But I will not go any further, since the islands and islands themselves gave their answer to the elections on 7 July and we are here to look forward and not back. For us Members of the Co-Population and the Government of New Democracy, the challenges are before us and they are specific. Firstly, we have to deal with the immigration problem. It is a matter which has been dramatically increasing over the last period. We have already received letters of agony from Lero, since there the Reception and Identification Centre has exceeded its limits, as is the case in Kos, Samos and Lesvos. And it is very good and very important that the relevant ministers have already moved immediately so that our country can stop giving the impression that it has no maritime borders and that the speeding up of asylum procedures and a number of important measures have been announced, as we have just heard. I believe that our Government's initiatives and the plan announced by the Prime Minister himself will produce results. The second is tourism. Tourism is our 'heavy' industry and has supported our country at this difficult time. For us islanders, tourism must aim to provide quality services at competitive prices in relation to other countries. This can only be done through the reduction of taxes, which has already been announced by the government, but also by a strategic development plan, a plan which will highlight thematic tourism and promote the advantages of the country, which can attract many visitors. The third is health. That's a time-consuming problem. The government has already announced that recruitment will proceed in the critical health sector, since our islands are suffering affliction over time, especially in staff. Fourthly, there are infrastructures. Although the regional authorities within the framework of their responsibilities have gone ahead and completed projects, it is certain that our islands should be strengthened by implementing a single national infrastructure plan. No island should be left behind. No island should be left alone. A first sample of our holistic approach is our Government's commitment to making our islands autonomous with the development of hybrid power stations from renewable energy sources. The fifth is fishing. I am referring separately to this area, because there are major problems which need to be resolved. This is because fishing is not only a source of income for islanders, but also because good policies ensure both income and the necessary longevity of fish. We already have statements from Kalymnos on a number of issues on which the government - I am sure - will give an answer in the best possible way. Sixthly, an effort should be made to reintroduce the arrangements for reduced VAT rates for our islands. I believe that it remains a vital issue for our islands, for all our islands, not only for what accepts migratory flows. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still too much to say about the islands. However, it is important to say that the New Democracy Government has immediately begun to address the issues that concern islanders. In the last of the Aegean Sea, a breath of our eastern neighbours, a strong economic area, with people who work and create for them and their children safely and confidently, is the image of a truly powerful Greece, with strong borders, because the borders of each country are its citizens. In the next four years I am sure that with a great deal of work and appetite the Government of New Democracy, our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and we will respond to the confidence that the Greek people have given us in the elections of 7 July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. Mr. Kokalis from SYRIZA has the floor now and Mr. Kavadas from New Democracy will be followed for six minutes each. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to wish everyone and everyone a good time and thank my fellow citizens, who have re-elected me with SYRIZA, from this point of view. Yesterday, the Programmatic Declarations began. However, these Programmatic Declarations are characterised by one originality: Only Programmatic Declarations are not. They're just finding out. The quote of some facts as true is not considered Programmatic Declarations. We wait until tomorrow night for the Prime Minister to tell us his position on insurance, to tell us about the possible reduction, abolition of tax. One could say too much about this ambiguity and the report of ideas that have been heard. But I come to the primary sector. I was really ready - as Alexis Tsipras said - for a constructive opposition, documented, with some tables, with some elements, but I didn't really hear anything. I have heard nothing from the Prime Minister or from the Minister responsible. The people who are dealing with the primary sector in our country indirectly or directly - farmers, farmers, fishermen - account for about 25% of the population. These people - not us of Officerial Responsibility Members, let us - expected the Prime Minister to listen in particular to a number of basic guidelines in his policy - basic, in summary, to some policies - and then the Minister responsible for Rural Development specialises in these policies. Therefore, all these people in the primary sector expected to hear the concept of 'active farmer', which the European Union demands, expected to hear what the precise measures, environmental measures, are for the new CAP. They expected the relevant Minister for Rural Development his position on the possibility of external convergence. They waited for the Minister for Rural Development's position on the negative consequences, which Brexit might have in the common agricultural policy. Farmers, farmers, cooperatives and fishermen have waited and waited for this public consultation on the position of our country. Farmers, farmers and fishermen were expected to hear about lowering production costs. Unless you have the impression that production costs are not high. Let me remind you of Alexis Tsipras' commitment to the reintroduction of agricultural oil. They have waited and waited for farmers, farmers and fishermen - because they are expecting them from a government in the programme statements - to hear about the duty-free allowances. They waited and waited to hear about the inconsistency of subsidies. They have waited and awaited our announced arrangements to reduce cooperative taxation. Instead, they hear general and vague concepts of strengthening agricultural income. The Minister for Rural Development said: 'We will try to protect small farmers and strengthen rural incomes with rural investment'. Who's gonna make the investments? Forget and forget the main player, the farmer himself. How will the liquidity of rural enterprises be strengthened? These are very, very serious questions. As a Qualified Opposition, we will not simply try to show that there is no plan. We will prove documented that our project is fair, productive and competitive. Because when a government's programme statements do not mention, there are no key questions and, basically, it has not been answered, it has not even been mentioned in the tacosy, which relates to the most important cultivation in our country, the olive tree - two things happen: either there is no plan or they do not know. Pick and take. But both are just as dangerous. And I'm coming to ELGA. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, for what you're going to do, for private insurance, you didn't have a mandate and you don't have a mandate. Ask the province MPs. Election has reported a change of Rules of Procedure, not for private insurance. The ELGA Regulation has been established since 1988. The latest update was made by Law 3788/2010, an update to increase the premiums. On 18 December 2018 the ELGA decided to change the regulation because, indeed, there were and there were injustices. Why don't you choose the way to restore injustices with an ELGA public? Why do you not choose what all the institutions have asked for, cover other loss-making causes and go directly to private insurance? Mr Vorides said this very well in his morning interview with the ERT. In particular, he said: "These two issues arise: first, the extent of the damage covered by the premium paid by producers..." - which means an increase - "... and second, the debate begins on a public and private insurance relationship". Let me remind you that a well-known private insurance company three years ago made a proposal to farmers to cover 80% to 14%, and today the value of the premium is about 4% of the crop. You'll find it in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u197	I'd like to make an announcement before I give the floor. As we are about two hours away from the programme, on the basis of what we had agreed, the Bureau's thought - in consultation with the President, of course, Mr Tassoula - is today's sitting to take place by 01.00 noon and tomorrow's sitting begin 09:30 in the morning, hoping that we will at least cover the most Members scheduled to speak. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u198	The House has agreed. Mr Kavadas from New Democracy has the floor now, and immediately after Mrs. Tyrigoridou from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank my Belarusian fellow citizens for honouring me with their vote and trusting me for a second consecutive four years as their representative in the Greek Parliament. I feel a great responsibility towards all the inhabitants of Lefkada, the Greatest, the Kalamos and the Kastos. I will honour their trust and do everything possible for the sake of my country, but also of my country. I should also like to wish all my fellow Members, both old and young, from all the wings of this House, a good and constructive service and work for all of us in the common interest of our country. I wish the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and all the members of the government good power in the difficult task that has been entrusted to her. Ladies and gentlemen, with their choices in the elections of 7 July, citizens sent a clear message to all of us. The country must finally enter a strong growth orbit. We must all work to get our young people back from abroad and have jobs for everyone in our country. It turned out that populism and false promises took us back. There are no easy solutions to reverse the economic climate and to invest. He needs a plan, a schedule and a lot of work. The New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have this plan. Already, from the early days of governance, we have seen what we all knew in our constituencies by election. The New Democracy was ready to take over the government of the country. The program is ready, the bills are ready and the start of governance has been made at a rapid pace, as this place needs. The priority areas - and we have told them on several occasions and on several occasions - are health: the adequate staffing of hospitals, health centres and doctors on our small islands. The sense of security of citizens: the immediate reinforcement of Security Bodies and the reopening of Type III prisons. Education: by abolishing university asylum and by modernizing at last all levels of education. Strong growth: by attracting investment and creating modern infrastructure across the country. To alleviate citizens, by progressively reducing taxation at all levels and to natural persons and businesses. For what I have said, the legislative initiatives of the government, as the Prime Minister said, will be completed by the end of 2019. The country and the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, cannot wait. We will work hard, without many words, in order to get the strong growth that our country needs as soon as possible. At this point I will be allowed to speak, in particular, on my own country, Lefkada. The Region of Lefkada has important opportunities for development and progress. Many factors enhance these opportunities. The geographical location, the tourist and the cultural product are only some of them. Unfortunately, the previous government leaves Lefkada with too many problems. The new hospital was inaugurated by the previous Prime Minister two months before the elections, but it is down and down and down to medical and nursing staff. Let me give you an example: there are no organograms, despite my ongoing questions to the Minister at the time, so that some clinics cannot be served. For a long time there has been no anesthesiologist, and at the moment there is only one, so that on-calls and incidents do not come out to other hospitals. Also, in the nephrological clinic, only the manager, who serves at least twenty-five patients, and there is a waiting list. As you can see, of course, it is not enough to deal with the incidents. The announcement by the Prime Minister of direct recruitment makes it certain that these problems will be solved and the Lefkada will finally acquire the health structures that it deserves. The new roads, which will connect Lefkada to Iato-Carnania and Ionia Street, have not been completed and have stopped. The completion of the Vonica - Agios Nikolaos - Lefkada and Aktio - Agios Nikolaos is within the priorities of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Very important is the completion of the Ambros Road and the connection with mainland Greece, through the subsea link of Lefkada. Lefkada was also excluded from the previous government, for no reason - as if it did not have the same needs as the other islands - from the powers of the Secretariat-General for Island Policy, an injustice that we will seek to restore from the new government. In addition, the Great Britain and our small islands, Kalamos and Kastos, have been excluded from providing free internet for two years, without any reason, a question which we will seek to restore to the new government. Finally, very important is the issue of the creation of tourist marins on the island, which the Prime Minister announced yesterday for the whole country. Priority will therefore be given to launching the procedures for the creation of a marina in the Vlychos area, a project that will give the region a breath and make Lefkada an important destination for maritime tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is entering a new phase of extroversion and development. The New Democracy and the Government will seek the greatest possible consensus in all areas, with the sole aim of moving our country forward, finally escaping from this decade of misery and economic shrinkage. Our country has great potential. We all know them. It is high time, then, that we worked with perseverance and concrete plans so that we could bring Greece back to the place that she deserves. This plan and the will of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all members of the Government. So I call on you to give the government a vote of confidence and give Greece a new chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u200	Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, do you know who the scientists around him were saying in the 16th century? Copernicus who formulated the heliocentric theory was blamed by the other scientists of his time, led by the Catholic priesthood, as a liar and as a man who offends the absolute truth of the Scriptures. And seeing his own inability to defend himself, he bitterly sent a letter to the Pope saying, "There is no medicine if he bites you a slander." Even though his theory was confirmed, his saying was not confirmed. And it wasn't confirmed, because it turned out that the slander in the first year is happy. So that's what's happening in life, so in politics. And the role of those who make fun of me, who hypocrites me, who, with slander, manage to win battles sooner or later reveal themselves. I am one of those SYRIZA MPs - and many other members of SYRIZA - who have been subjected to a ruthless attack on the Prespecies Agreement, with insults, with threats, with attacks, in questioning our patriotism. So the New Democracy and its executives, hand-held, with extremist nationalists, sought to divide Greek society. They invested in the discord of the Greek people, to have micro-party benefits. Within only a few days of the election, the truth begins to be unfolded and uncovered. The hypocrisy is revealed, the slander is revealed, the national irresponsibility is revealed, the bilingualism of the so-called Macedonians is revealed. Following the Prime Minister's statements to Mrs May - to remind her that in 2018 as Chief of Officerial Representation she said: "Neither now nor will we ever accept the Prespecies Agreement" - one week has not passed and finally, the agreement is necessarily acceptable and has to be applied to her last term. You have an apology. And it's still a start. We will soon see how you will actually implement this agreement, because you will also begin to admit that it is nationally beneficial to create conditions of friendship, cooperation and understanding in the region, in a difficult geopolitical environment. And you know that very well. So you owe me an apology. And if this apology is not addressed to Alexis Tsipras, you do not address it to Nikos Kotzias, you do not address it to all of us, who did not protect us from our political institutional role, you must address it to the Greek people. And I hope today - because there are other national issues, because our true enemy is east - that you understand that in national matters neither micropolitics nor patriopathy have a place. I would like, therefore, because we are really in a difficult geopolitical environment and because we have Turkey's provocative attitude, I would like to say to you this: we will be supportive in terms of the country's national line. Do not think, however, of making unconditional and unconditional conciliation or consultation with Mr Erdogan. That's where you'll find us across the street. In Oriental bazaars and in press choices, the doctrine of Aegean reconciling, we will not be near you. We will be here, to make a fertile opposition, we will be here to do what the Greek people have asked us: to check on you every day, every hour and every moment. And we will do that seriously and responsibly. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] In fact, we have a lot to say, but unfortunately, time does not allow for it. I would like to say this and end in a minute, Mr President. Because I have heard Mr Vorides' statements on agricultural policy, I will only say a word. A number of points have indeed been adopted, in which we have already started an effort, for development, for the environment, for intelligent agriculture. It's a little unclear about everything else. We will be waiting for you to tell us what you are going to do with the three kinds of farmers' tax exemptions, we will expect you to tell us what you are going to do with the privatisation of the ELGA, which will lead farmers to private interests, and there, if this is to the detriment of the Greek farmers, we will be across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u202	Mrs. Tyloridou, Mr. Kalafatis is here, so I'll stop you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Because we believe that the course of the country's relocation is long, because we believe that it should be based on the forces of action, without commitments in the interests of a few and selected, and because we believe in economic and social democracy, which we believe you cannot serve, is why we are voting against your Programmatic Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u204	Mr Kalafatis from New Democracy has the floor and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Arabatzis. Here, Mr. Kalafati, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few days after the new government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. But already, all Greeks have the first samples of writing and these samples emit preparedness, determination, efficiency, testify to consistency and a deep sense of responsibility, quickly prescribe, for sure and solid steps for Greece that we want. Citizens can see that we now have the government that our country, the government of works, the government that can bring about an upsurge in the economy and a rise in society, which can make our homeland proud again, which can make Greek optimists more optimistic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks have given us the mandate to start a new era. That is what we have given them, and that is what we have to do. We all know that difficulties are many. We have accumulated pathogens across us, but also an unstable international environment. The times require wisdom and boldness, they require a combination of forces and efforts in common purposes, and they all require us to go together to defend our national laws, to put the machines of development in full, to make the state servant rather than the citizen's power, to build better living conditions for all. In our national affairs, the positions are clear. The Greeks are committed to peace and stability. We want cooperation with our neighbours, but with respect for our sovereign rights. We want dialogue, but on the basis of international law. Our immediate objectives include the global emergence of Macedonia, because Macedonia was and is Greek. And we don't share that with anyone! We want, at the same time, to regain our right to the core of Europe. We are seeking a new agreement on lower surpluses. We are planning a decisive negotiation on the new common agricultural policy. We are claiming substantial support for the preservation of our borders that are European. Ladies and gentlemen, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly pointed out, Greece is launching a new economic and development policy today. We are ready to immediately form an attractive and fertile development environment with a rapid promotion of e-government and a drastic reduction in bureaucracy, with a paper-based Public Investment Program, with increased liquidity in the market, with a reduction in insurance contributions, with significant reductions in income tax, corporate tax and dividends, VAT and HISPIA, but also with incentives for bonuses for employees, with significant increases in minimum wages, with support to the Greek family. We are committed to supporting youth entrepreneurship, to giving a second chance to those who have kneeled from the crisis, to developing targeted actions to gain the value they have lost in our homes, to build the conditions for new investments, new businesses and new better paid jobs. Only in this way will there be an upsurge of the economy and a rise in society, only in this way will we live up to the expectations that have been eradicated, only in this way can we build better life for everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, the government's immediate priorities are to restore the sense of security in our homes, in our jobs, in our neighbourhoods. To this end, we propose strengthening the police, abolishing the Friday's law, and correcting the new Criminal Code immediately. Our policy guide is, above all, the demands of the wronged new generation and the needs of our children. We all know that public education has always been the lever of social mobility, it is the ladder that our children are going up to claim for their future. This ladder nobody has the right to level it. We cannot and will not leave our universities in the hands of brigades, drug dealers and smugglers. It is our decision to immediately abolish the so-called university asylum and to link education to the labour market. Not to produce unemployed graduates, not to share degrees for the shelf. At the same time, we want to improve our health services for people who need us. Don't make our soul a knot when we get into public hospitals. Nobody expects anyone in endless tails to get his medications. Do not risk lives from shortages of instruments and equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, we will keep what was done positive in previous years and build on it. We are ambitious to give our country and serve the Greeks. We believe that we can change things, we can reduce taxes and create new jobs. We can improve our education, health, safety, everyday life. We can regain optimism and national confidence. This is our vision. And this vision is common, it is the admiration that connects the new government to society, it is the compass that leads our steps, it is the debt we undertake to serve with a deep sense of responsibility. For all this, we say 'yes' to new governance and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, 'yes' to development and social justice, 'yes' to a country that is proud and optimistic again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u206	Mr Arabaji, State Secretary for Rural Development, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's first day of the debate on the Programmatic Declarations in the House proved, in the most resounding way, how necessary political change was in the country. Because in the realistic and unified speech of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which included an effective and costly plan for the new light Greece that we want to build, Mr. Tsipras' response was miserable, divisive, petty, of course without a trace of self-criticism. Instead, we are now making a break with the past, investing in political credibility with bold changes, with fewer words and promises, with a lot of work and measurable actions. This will be our guide, and for raising the fundamental primary sector, for reconstructing the life of the countryside, which is the necessary welding fabric of social cohesion, for measures to reduce production costs and strengthen agricultural income. The income which in the last four and a half years has been rampantly attacked by you, ladies and gentlemen, of the outgoing leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which you have been rushing to opposition already. Attacked by the exterior tax and insurance raid, the gigantic cost of production since, among other things, you squeezed agricultural oil, credit suffocation, scandalous downgrading and mismanagement of the Rural Development Programme and the Operational Fisheries and Sea Programme, the proverbial indifference, unlike all other countries, to the utilization of our farmers' lending tools from the well-known Yunger package. The income that you risked, ladies and gentlemen of the outgoing leadership, with your irresponsibility for the strategic plan for the new Common Agricultural Policy, but above all your negotiating disgrace in the critical negotiations by allowing criminal additions to our country of Visegrad and the Baltic, such as that of 11 June 2019 - I will present it in the Minutes - for immediate external convergence, which in practice means reducing Greek subsidies by 50%. This one and we will fight in every way, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As we will hard to fight the hostility that you have reserved for the world that produces and is massaged. Reducing production and abandonment of crops, reducing agricultural income by 4.7% and rural entrepreneurship by 8.6% in 2018 according to EUROSTAT. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the harvest of the black economy, estimates refer to 3.5 billion. It is grim, as, while employment in rural areas of the European Union rises to 63%, in our country it remains stuck to 44%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The JRC of the Commission is undermining the danger of abandoning the Greek countryside, precisely because of its current policies. In livestock farming, and especially in ovine and caprine animals, the crisis in recent years is unprecedented. Dismantling of the prices of milk, bread and milk, as a result of the tax-paying mix of policies that you have implemented, the distorting distribution of compensatory compensation against the real beneficiaries, but above all the orgy of Greekizations. Overall in 2018, according to ELSTAT, livestock decreased by two and a half units, as decreased by 4% and 2.8% respectively. I'm filing it in the Minutes. From this point of view, then, the unfavourable position at the starting point is starting, as a New Democracy Government, to bring back hope, optimism for production and development to our farmers. Our bet, we win - and we win - the lost competitiveness, with the dogma of reducing taxes and insurance contributions, the brave opening to entrepreneurship. 22% to 9% for income from the tax limit to EUR 10,000, strong tax incentives from 13% to 10% for building producer groups and organisations, abolishing the trade fee for all free professionals, and not only 5% of the cooperative farmers, for which Mr Tsipras was responsible. Our concern, with a development mark, the use of Community funds and financial instruments, the reduction of the cost-effective bureaucracy, so that our producers will not spend more time on paper than on production - I remind you of the closed register of Farmers since January 2015 - addressing chronic diseases and distortions, culminating in the anachronistic regulation of the ELGA, which you have not prepared an example for the incarnation, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, four and a half years in the government, thus updating ELGA and adapting it to modern climate change data. Our immediate priority is to combat the scourge of Hellenism. By implementing the seven-point rescue plan we establish an effective, strict and fair system of holistic control from the stable to the shelf. We are directed exclusively at controls on the contributions of cheese producers and processors to the ELGA, almost EUR 5 million per year. We are establishing the removal of a PDO licence for smugglers, Greek-made products. Because clearly, ladies and gentlemen, the time of allergy in the controls you have shown has come to an end on 7 July. We are fighting for the self-evident compensation until yesterday to guarantee it, unfortunately, from national resources in 2019 and 2020. It is first and foremost heard, ladies and gentlemen, since the government that has come up against it has stumbled it with its forward-looking Rusphetological allowance policy, tossing the hot potato into our own government. It is our urgent priority to finally complete and final grazing plans. The reduction of land is currently 20%, and since the recent scandalous amendment of 2021 our country's grazing land is literally in the air, with everything that implies for the definitive rights and subsidies of Greek farmers in the new CAP. It is of paramount importance that fishing and aquaculture, whose potential is such that they can take first place in food exports - seventeen figures - and the fourth position in all exportable products. This is why the completion of the Special Spatial Planning, the acceleration, in cooperation with the Ministry of Shipping, of the evaluation of WHI applications, which are literally being dragged away and the modernisation of the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of units are prerequisites. And, of course, we promise to run versatilely, so that money is not lost from the operational fisheries and sea programme, giving priority to development measures. Suffice it to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the absorption today is only 15% of the 521 million guaranteed by the former Government of New Democracy, while we are called upon to absorb 85% by the end of the programming period and by the end of 2019, 21 million euros at risk of dismantling. I shall put forward a document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen consciously to conclude my speech, to refer to the consequences of the harmful Prespecies Agreement, a subject that hurts us personally. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has made it clear that we will defend our Macedonian products, supporting Greek producers with a structured plan against the risks of falsification by our northern neighbour, with the protection of brand "Macedonia", with the safeguarding of more Macedonian products as PDO - PGI in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not promise magic solutions, but work, consistency and struggle for lost time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u208	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u209	The legality, the national and the public interest is for us unnecessarily. We do not consider the farmers party customers, nor do we attempt to gain electoral profits in any of their weaknesses. We invest politically in their strength, because their strength is the power of our Greece, Greece of creation, of prostitution, of prosperity for all. That is why I ask you to vote for the first self-defenced New Democracy government after the crisis. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u210	The next circle of speakers includes Mrs Kefalidou from the Change Movement, Mr Kalogonnis from New Democracy, Mr. Skourikos from SYRIZA and Mr. Karraguni from New Democracy. This cycle will be closed by the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis. Mr. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good start. The result of the elections of 7 July, which led to the absence of the Nazi structure of the Golden Dawn, is the most important conquest of all of us. Mostly it is the conquest of Greek citizens. They set the result, they gave the answer and their choice we all have to honour. This is our first and main responsibility, the answer to the request for a better country, for a better tomorrow for everyone. It is common that this House should become the best of post-multiple. Nobody here has the exclusive. The Constitution and the Rules of Parliament will be be the beacon of the new government. That's right, Prime Minister. It is regrettable, however, that in our country over recent years, self-evident has become a distant and difficult target to achieve. Of course, having lived four and a half years in the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, which broke into its garments that it is every word of the Constitution and managed not to leave an institution that would not hurt, bypass, distort, ignore, well-founded one could claim that it is a great step back to point zero, at starting point, to the self-evident of every modern democracy. That is where we are starting, and as much as we are all pleased about the fresh air of culture and democratic decency that the new Parliament is breathing, let us not forget that what has been conquered is only the basic condition of operation. It's not for us to relax. Ladies and gentlemen, always the tone, the style and the morality of power are given by the governments concerned first. And since the value of the symbols in political life is indeed important, I will focus on the placement of the new Secretary-General who has penetrated the impressive first moves of the new government. You said: "Strengthening the state. Our rule is the rules.' But what one would expect to convince you to mean what you are proclaiming would be the choice to do otherwise, while respecting Law No.4369/2016 in terms of both the procedure and the person. It was unfortunate to select the former police chief as Secretary General of the Public Order. We insist, we insist, we have done so with 'OpenGov' and we believe that the choice of the Secretary-General should always be made by means of a public notice. Your choices are a mile away from what you have announced and from what the law provides, a law that SYRIZA has destroyed, and that is why there has been a strong reaction from all of us and from the New Democracy. The manner and procedure of placement of the Secretary-General is not a good start and the celebration of the General Secretarys through ASP, let me tell you that it does not mitigate the impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people expect much to be done, much to be done and urgent. I shall refer to some. National themes: Macedonian. Is trademarks all the trouble? The ministers tell you they're ready to implement the Ambassadors' agreement. What, after all, will be your position? The one you had as an Opposition, or the one you have as a government? Turkey: I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who doubts that the neighbouring country is increasing its provocativeness every day. The responsibility is in the hands of the Prime Minister. We, with a feeling of our role, will support every policy which defends the interests of the country, apart from micro-political controversy. After all, our historic journey in the recent past, likewise, has shown how we are not afraid to support, as we are not afraid to stand up for, by putting our national interests above all. Development: The Change Movement believes in a modern, flexible and final state. The country, more and more importantly, needs to produce new wealth and exploit it. However, this new wealth, the so possessed of SYRIZA, must be of concern to everyone, particularly to the most vulnerable social groups, and include them. We insist that we take priority over our weak fellow citizen, the small and medium-sized, the free trader, the farmer, the young people, who now come to the labour market in an anhydrous environment, who only asks them without offering them. The more we fought against the citizen's mutagenication, the more we fought against his mutilation in previous years, the more we will fight to be the worker, the worker and not the pariah. Education: Ladies and gentlemen, education is the most important lever in the long term of healthy development. Today is the largest national investment that the state can provide. The society that does not understand it, and the leadership that does not propose it, is doomed to frustration. The Change Movement is the ones with n.4009/2011, a legislative initiative - a station for our country's education, and we have proved our commitment to a modern, high-quality education linked to the economic development of the country. Let us all remember the wide acceptance of the Diamantopoulou Act. Let's all remember his silent, systemic devotion. Above all, let us consider the consequences of avoiding application. We don't have to go far back. Let's look down at the I.E.S. today. Let's take a walk through the university campus. Closer, if you like, let's walk a night between Tositsa - Bubulinas, Solomos - Archaeological Museum. The issue of violence and infringibility within universities is not solved by announcements, it is not solved by skin decisions. We lived in the Gabroglou period. Legislative framework we have delivered you since 2011. In individual application issues, specialization may be needed. But what is most necessary is political will. Do you have it? Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement focuses primarily on the daily lives of the citizens. This is the most important challenge. After four and a half years of screaming, splitting, exaggerating, pedestrian policies, we finally need seriousness, organised plan, searching for convergences and consensus on all the major issues that keep the country captive. Time for seriousness, time for reason. We will continue to confront arguments and proposals in the hope of a fruitful parliamentary dialogue with different political views. This is mostly the case, which has been missing over the last few years. A government without bluffs, a government without hugging it hears, discusses, and above all dares to include in its actions positive proposals that do not necessarily concern party labels. Only in this way, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the new government will be able to say that it is a government of all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u212	Mr Kalogonnis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr SYRIZA from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago Greek citizens won a great victory in the New Democracy and presented the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Citizens have given us a mandate to change things. The government has already submitted its programme. We are therefore moving, with political decency, towards the direction taken by the large social majority of the reforms. Our policy aims to create a rule of law with less intervention in the economy, with fewer taxes, with social cohesion, by releasing, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, the creative forces of the country. The first objective is to restore the functioning of the State and the institutions, along with the rectification of the national economy. Let me briefly address a number of specific issues. As far as infrastructure projects are concerned, which are a pillar of development and have multiplier benefits, over the last four years, without wishing to zero any project that has been done, there has been very high stagnation. The promises to revise the concessions and abolish the tolls that were flagged for SYRIZA during the period 2012-2014, when we managed to amend the contracts, were all forgotten as soon as SYRIZA took over power. Fortunately, because these amended contracts made it possible to implement the modern motorways, which radically alter the fate of the Greek region. Furthermore, I note that no new work of breath has started since 2014. Not even the axis of Ioannina - Greek-Albanian border, which belongs to the core of the trans-European transport network. The southern part of the motorway of central Greece, E65, angomaha, should be started while it should be completed. For its northern part, unfortunately, there is absolutely no development. The Patras - Tower axis is the epitome of political bias, while it has already been recorded in the political history of the Ministry of Infrastructure or an orderly attempt to favour a specific manufacturer from the previous government. It is indicative that one of the eight contractors, to which the previous government has completely "broken" this project, has so far not been possible to start construction. The priority of the New Democracy, along with the great works announced yesterday by the Prime Minister for Athens and Thessaloniki, must be the completion of the E65, the promotion of the BOAK in Crete, the Ioannina-Cacavia axis, the connection of the Ionian Road with Preveza and Lefkada. For spatial planning and the environment: we all know that space planning is difficult and requires conflicts. The outgoing government has also promoted few things in this area. First of all, I would say that we need to have a spatial framework for tourism as soon as possible and update other spatial planning frameworks, where necessary. For example, the framework for renewable energy sources. As far as the legislative framework is concerned, the previous government in 2016 brought a law on spatial planning, which, unfortunately, has been inapplicable for three years. The Ministry of the Environment must immediately promote local spatial plans by municipality, so that at the end of the four-year period we can finally have approved urban planning at every corner of the country. A proposal to the extremely dear Minister for the Environment. Priority, in my view, should be given to the large urban centres in the region, for which studies of regulatory projects have already been carried out. I am referring to Thessaloniki, Patras, Larissa, Volos, Heraklion and Ioannina, for which the regulators have not been institutionalised, and which thus remain very outstanding many dozens of general urban projects and urban studies have remained. As far as the environment is concerned, we must, among other things, speed up the environmental licensing procedures, revisit the issues of protected areas and staff of management bodies, which have been held hostage in the past five years with annual and only renewals of their contracts. We should also speed up action to tackle climate change within the ambitious objective set by the European Union. To make Europe the world's first climate neutral continent. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We must also, ladies and gentlemen, be on animal husbandry, and I am glad to hear the Minister responsible beforehand discuss these issues. Our farmers are spending hard hours. The price of milk is compressed throughout the country due to imports via third countries. It is therefore necessary to carry out strict checks at the production plants, to support the healthy plants which they produce, which they invest, which export. Without livestock farmers, the Greek region, and in particular the mountain tumors, will be extinguished and this will be disastrous for the country. A reference to insurance matters. I would ask the Minister for Labour to give, among other things, problems faced by the Ministry, priority in the performance of pensions. They are stagnating, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens, expecting the self-evident, timely performance of their pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens require clear positions and reliable solutions. With the implementation of the Programme announced by the Prime Minister, we bring Greece to the position that it deserves within the European Union, the most developed and socially sensitive city in today's world. The government and the Prime Minister have taken the heavy burden of regeneration of the place. We call on them to implement the government plan with determination. We, for our part, support them in every way and give them a vote of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u214	Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u215	Welcome, Mr. Vice President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. After wishing everyone and all good strength, I will say that the wonderful world of culture was a long way from the speech of the Prime Minister. There is something that has been said from the outset that we will have a lot of revenue in the museums and beyond. But the wonderful world of culture, as an extremely multi-dimensional one, also requires a similar multi-dimensional policy on the part of the governments. It also needs the necessary support, the relevant legislative framework and state care for the public interest rather than the private interest. Ladies and gentlemen, this place has history and we have memory. We are looking at the events of the New Democracy in the past, and we are concerned about what is being announced. We are concerned that the current Minister of Culture, when he was at the post of the General Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, in the case of great antiquities on the metro of Thessaloniki, was in favour of their secondment and transfer to the camp of Paul Mela, despite the protests of archaeologists, municipality of Thessaloniki and institutions. The government of SYRIZA adopted the model "and ancient and metro", passing from the Central Archaeological Council the studies on the promotion of antiquities. We are concerned that we remember the political and ideological use of the great monument of Amphipolis for the success of Mr Samaras' success. We are concerned about the Greek, where the bulldozers would enter the first week and the documents forgotten in the drawers to declare parts of the investment, delivering the hot potato to SYRIZA. Now the former advisor to the "Lamda DEVELOPMENT" and the Deputy Minister of Government, who will negotiate the public interest towards the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" - we have seen this as well - hope not to attempt to differentiate terms which the Central Archaeological Council has set for the Greek. We hope that we do not live for days like those where the current Minister of Culture granted the TIAD thirty-six properties of the plaque together with the emblematic central building of the Ministry on Bubulinas Street. Because the blue file that has been delivered learns that it contains instructions that make us worry, we hope not to see private security companies in the Acropolis guard. We hope that the fair remuneration of 2% on the import price for tablets, mobiles and computers will not be abolished. We are concerned about the model of the New Democracy, as regards the management of museum revenues, which puts the revenues of the Ministry, i.e. the public, from space tickets with great traffic, since the legal entities governed by public law, such as the Acropolis Museum, do not pay the tickets to the SSP. If this model is extended, there will be negative consequences for the Archaeological Resources Fund - this is the TAP - that is, the "multi" of the Ministry of Culture, and this is a direct violation of the Constitution, which states that the cultural heritage is the property of the Greek people. But you, as a government, have already inherited an important wealth of what the previous government has achieved in the field of culture. I'm going to be up-to-date in a few minutes, because time is pushing. First, an electronic ticket to the archaeological sites. It was the bridge of Arta for all governments and PASOK and the New Democracy. It was implemented by the SYRIZA Government, ensuring revenues which were not recorded anywhere in the previous days and, of course, did not enter the public funds. Secondly, copyright. We deliver you a landscape clean of the injustices and exploitation suffered by Greek spiritual creators from monopolistic situations, acting uncontrollably against the authors with the coverage of the state, New Democracy and PASOK. The Special Extraordinary Management Agency was established, ensuring the smooth operation and distribution to the beneficiary authors after the dismantling of GNI. The Independent Agency for Collective Management has been launched and the creators themselves must be completed. Thirdly, from the Ministry of Digital Policy, this concerns large film and television productions. SYRIZA has carried out a large program that for decades remained demanding in the field of seventh art, a suitable investment framework. What was the propaganda? That SYRIZA doesn't want the investments, it's not investment-friendly. It has implemented a suitable investment framework so that large foreign productions can take place in our country and that other destinations in the Mediterranean or elsewhere would not be preferred. With the cash rebate, i.e. the tax refund or tax rebate introduced by the SYRIZA government, there are currently thirty-eight large film and television productions, bringing money, creating some and a half thousand jobs and advertising Greece around the world. We also restored legality to the operation of the Acropolis Museum that operated illegally with workers from the Creation Agency. We restored them to work, since you have been holding them in hostage for years. So we expect you to implement the 2014 Presidential Decree. There's a lot of them. We have broken the abscess of intertwining as far as refreshments are concerned. We were resurrecting indebted organizations that created them your administrations. We've brought back the single book price. Let us hope, therefore, that you take not only these issues, which I mentioned very quickly, but also many others, and put them in the service of the Greek people. We hope that you will not hand them over to private individuals, i.e. at the expense of the public, the Greek people, because the money they bring belongs to the Greek people. Take everything positive that's been done and keep going. As you did tomba and agreed with SYRIZA about the Macedonian and admitted that it was a good deal, so behave with culture. It'll be for the good of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u218	Mr Karagunis is not in the Chamber, so we will continue with Minister Theocharis. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with something we all agree with: Tourism is the country's heavy industry. Its success is the result of collective and continuous effort of workers, individuals and state. This has proved to be awkward in the years of the crisis. From 2009 to 2018, tourism has directly produced 125 billion euros, with multiple contributions of course, to economic activity and to GDP as a whole, while 230 million people have been hosted, have travelled to our country. In other words, the crisis would be much worse, much harder, without tourism. At the same time, however, over the last ten years, the number of tourists has increased more than the tourist income has increased. That's proof the state didn't practice the right politics. It has simply followed the juncture, which has indeed favoured our country, but which has come to an end and we must know that. If we do not take initiatives, if we do not manage to increase tourist GDP, while keeping arrivals stable, we will have a problem, because that should be our goal, every tourist should be longer days and leave more money. This is why the Government of New Democracy proposes incentives to improve the quality of hotels, in exchange for more common spaces. That is how we will achieve these goals. But let us come to today and, above all, to tomorrow. For us, tourism is not just numbers. Tourism means hospitality, with emphasis on humans and, of course, on the experience it experiences. Tourism for the Ministry's leadership, but also for the New Democracy Government as a whole, means strategy. Firstly, a strategy for sustainable tourism development. It means, for example, a balance of supply, demand and infrastructure, not a power cut every weekend, as I was told in Halkidiki I was going to do, that before the premise of every weekend they had a power cut or a waste that cannot be collected, as is the case in Corfu, which still has a real problem. Secondly, it means avoiding overtourism. This year, on August 6, they will reach Santorini cruise ships with a capacity of eighteen thousand three hundred and seventy-two. The island can't stand so many people. Is it the people who will protest that day? Is it the tourists who won't come back? We cannot call a tourist product the suffering of visitors and residents. These are the results of an anarchist and without strategic planning of tourist development. Thirdly, it means a data analysis of who we want to attract, when we want them and why. In the era of the great data, the so-called 'big data', we cannot make marketing with intuition. It needs analysis, innovation and a new EOT, adapted to new conditions and new tools in its hands. We are therefore engraving a new digital strategy at the EOT. Fourthly, it means quality accommodations and groups with a low environmental footprint and why not, zero carbon footprint. The Scandinavian countries are first, but this trend - we are all sure and you know it - will be extended over the next few years. They only choose green destinations. We can't ignore that. Ladies and gentlemen, the strategic objectives of our Ministry are summarised as follows: Improving the competitiveness of the Greek tourist product, improving its quality and authenticity, improving the durability and finally improving the sustainability of the tourist product. In order to achieve all this, we need better coordination between the ministries, but also of course between state and local government. We will pursue this firstly by setting up a team to implement the actions of the national tourism plan. Secondly, with the establishment of a tourism council, so that tourist counter-regionals meet regularly with the Ministry's leadership, to better coordinate actions across the country. Ladies and gentlemen, five are the axes on which we will move: the creation of infrastructure, the improvement of the licensing framework and the placement of tourism, such as the completion of the spatial framework. It is a matter of years or decades, in order to favour investment, without a discount on the principles of sustainability, by creating a one-stop shop for the rapid licensing of tourist investments, which has been inactivated, by standardising environmental studies for new tourist facilities, where things are simpler and can be done, with incentives for the registration of professional and private boats. The aim is to attract five thousand vessels more than ten metres which currently go to other states. Today, for example, Croatia is taking it to us and we are losing too much revenue as a result. The second axis is the country's accessibility and interconnectivity, with an effort to strengthen the country's air and other interconnections, such as direct flights from the United States and winter, with an ambitious plan to extend and upgrade the marinas - the Prime Minister said yesterday - to improve the services offered, by connecting all tourist and business on the internet, with quality websites to enhance their active digital presence. The third axis is the management of the experience so that it is qualitative and attractive. The experience of a visitor starts from the beginning when he thinks about the destination and is looking to learn more about it, passes through the journey itself, through the tail to the customs, the quality of the room, if he was stolen in the street and what the police did when it happened to him and, of course, ends with the management of his memories and social networks, which usually raises them. We will strengthen the role of tourist police, with a daily presence for the transmission of the feeling of security to all tourists and entrepreneurs. We will reintroduce technical tourism education from almost zero and upgrade the upper schools of tourism. The country is a world-class tourist destination. It is not meant to have world-class tourism training. These two go together. Because only in this way will tourism workers become more qualitative, more productive and, of course, better paid. The prosperity of tourism will be diffused to everyone. Fourth axis is the redesign of the tourist product and the redefinition of its image, what we say, in greek, rebranding. To do this, we need evidence. We are the only country that has not yet implemented the tourism account in ELSTAT. This will change and change quickly. With the immediate reintroduction of our tourism competitiveness by reducing VAT on packages from 24% to 13% and over a period of four years at 11%. In order to achieve the expansion of the tourist season, we will call on all players per region, so that coordinated actions can create special winter products, so that we can bring people and other seasons here. We will be opening up - in short - our tourism in the five senses and not just in the sun and in the sea, as is happening today. The visitor must leave having seen, heard, taste, smell, touch from our country. This can be done by turning into composite or alternative products, city break, medical, well-being tourism, sport, educator, religious, gastronomic, conference, rural tourism and more. Other countries have already made a great deal of progress in this area and we are very much back in this. We will actively support efforts that create new attractive destinations in undeveloped tourist areas. Specific actions will be designed for cultural and religious tourism, which is the second largest market in Europe in expenditure and the third in arrivals. We are entitled to a greater share of this kind of tourism, given our cultural stock. We shall do the same for the development of third-age tourism, a basic priority for our government. The authenticity, a quality particularly sought by the 2000 generation, the so-called'millennials', which are the tourists of the future, will be strengthened to highlight the choices the visitor has for a traditional accommodation, for a local food, for an authentic cultural or physiological activity, for the purchase of a traditional product, for acquaintance with local tradition and history. It's obvious from the actions that I described how far back we are in all of this. Fifthly - and if you want our ability to strengthen the tourism product - is social and environmental sensitivity. The upgrading of quality cannot stop in the size of the room or bed. It must embrace the energy footprint, care for those in need, the return of part of the value to the local society. This will be the vehicle of the sustainability of Greek tourism. So we'll build the comparative advantage in the decades to come. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, all this will be in open dialogue with market operators. For this reason, we have already started informal meetings and are collecting market problems. We will continue with official meetings with all the presidencies of these bodies so that the problems that need to be addressed immediately before the start of the next tourist season. I would like to refer here to the 'Airbnb' point on which there has been a great deal of talk. For us in the Ministry of Tourism, short-term leases are part of the tourism product. This is not the case until now and for this the Ministry of Tourism was traditionally hostile to these leases. That is why I have already met with PASYDA, representing people who rent real estate. For us, short-term leases have been put on the tourism table. That position comes with rights. They'll ask for things, they'll say their problems, and we'll try to solve them. But they also come with obligations, because we must also ensure the quality of the tourist experience and its social footprint. Tax evasion and illegality cannot be tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen, I heard Mr Tsipras yesterday, and I would like to put aside his courage to talk about PPC, who is responsible for its reparation. But what seemed to me to be a complete lack of vision. He told us as a second-class accountant that, since we have 3.5% as a target, and since we are taking measures to relieve citizens, we must also take other secret measures to compensate for this loss. Mr Tsipras does not see that this gap will also be covered with our Ministry with development policies, with investment policies, support for tourism and support for development and investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u220	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u221	I'm closing, Mr. President. Our Ministry will be one of the catalysts to help relieve the Greek and create the development we expect. Tourism, therefore, for the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is at the centre of innovation, development and extroverty. For us, tourism means extracting nice memories from landscapes, archaeological sites, experiences, food and entertainment. It means exporting happiness. Greece, which offers as much as you could ever imagine, will be our goal, for every tourist, every season, at every destination. That's our name. This will lead our actions. That'll be our driver. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u222	The details of the workers are to be said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u223	Mr Marinos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of the modulation of urban governments demonstrates that, despite the secondary management differences and the moves of impression, anti-grassroots policy and the implementation of NATO and the European Union's guidelines under the SYRIZA New Democracy Strategy and other urban parties are continuing on the basis of the interests of capital. That is what is seen today in the debate on the Programmatic Declarations. What do we have on foreign policy? SYRIZA proved significant in promoting Euro-Atlantic designs, upgraded the Souda base, created new military bases. It held the first phase of the military dialogue with the US, agreed with the dangerous decisions of NATO and the European Union, signed the Euro-Atlantic Prespecies Agreement and has put our country into the pit of hard imperialist competition in the Balkans. It has strengthened political-military relations with Israel, which murders the Palestinian people and is a spearhead to possible United States attack on Iran. Therefore, the claims made by Greece as an exporter of stability are unfounded. SYRIZA took the road to New Democracy, which since the early days of governance has won the title of geostrategic hinges awarded by American Ambassador Piat to the previous government. It maintains the whole of the dangerous options, commits to new concessions in the United States and NATO and negotiates with the Americans the upgrading of the mutual defence cooperation agreement, which is very dangerous. The Government has reached the point of recognising the needy man of the United States and the European Union as the interim President of Venezuela, in intervening with developments that are the only case for the Venezuelan people. Overall, this policy that has been tested for so many years is putting our people at great risk and turning against other peoples. And that is of particular importance, because developments are alarming and the reassurance that is being cultivated is out of reality. The Turkish bourgeoisie is competing with the Greek and is escalating its aggression with an incentive to its strategic interests in the wider region. As NATO member, it challenges and violates the Greek borders, creates gray zones, has targeted Kastelorizo. He's haggling with the United States for the Russian missile system S -400. And anyone who celebrates Turkey's blockade by the American F-35 fighters' program sees only the tree and not the forest, because the bazaar is deeper. Turkey is the second military force in NATO that will offer many exchanges to prevent Russian influence and these exchanges concern even Greece's sovereign rights. They are concerned with the consideration of the Aegean Sea. No one can hide US crimes. The Turkish invasion of Cyprus was made by natonic force with the cover of the Americans and the British. The occupation is perpetuated and prepared for the partition of the island, the solution of the two states in the footsteps of the Annan plan. The Turkish drills are trampled in the EEZ of Cyprus, creating a fait accompli. The measures decided by the recent Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union are a culmination. The expectations cultivated are false. The European Union is facing Turkey as a strategic ally. It has trade relations exceeding EUR 154 billion. Germany and France place billions in investment and sell weapons systems. Imperialist competition is exacerbated. The war and warm spots on the planet are growing. Poverty and refugee are expanding, and whatever the apologies of capitalism claim, the system becomes more aggressive and dangerous. Calls for national unity and consensus aim to subject workers, the interests of capital and imperialist associations. The JRC's policy is of particular importance. Neither subjection nor maladministration, but strengthening the struggle of our peoples and the common struggle of the peoples, against exploitation, the imperialist wars and interventions against the country's involvement, to close the American-Russian bases, to free Greece from the imperialist truce with the people dominance. This is the crucial issue for workers to study better, because with the labour struggle and labour power, socialism will open the way to satisfying people's needs and building mutually beneficial relations between states and peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u225	Mr Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution, followed by Mr Aygeakis and the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech at the temple of democracy, but I would also like it to be the refuge of democracy here in the Greek Parliament. I have not heard in the government's Programme Declarations a programme on upgrading, raising, if you like, the region. The Greek Solution has specific proposals on how to upgrade the region. And if some are disturbing the presence of the Greek Solution, it is with the will and the popular verdict to guard Thermopylae, to safeguard the interests of Greece, to protect the Greek region as well. After all, we are the only party whose core is the region. But beware: If we do not have fixed satellites, the region cannot function. You have used your candidates - many of them are MPs today - as mayors and mayors and mayors, to exploit yourself as a party bulwark, we would say, to mark self-government. It's wrong. We are the only party that had no candidate either to the first or second levels of local government, because we firmly believe that self-government is outside parties, colours, labels and labels and we have specific proposals as a Greek Solution, because we want mayor and regional governor and not a rower. Well, the Lostroman's got to catch up with the rust. But there has to be a governor. And I ask you: have you heard Mr Mitsotakis say how resources will be assigned directly, the withheld VAT and the traffic charges, so that municipalities can get back in cooperation with the regions? The Greek Solution says that traffic charges and charges should now be attributed to us by the government if it intends to give part of the toll to the municipalities to get back on track. Our president, Kyriakos Velopoulos, said that for the TAP pipeline we have not received transit fees. On the contrary, the pipeline in the local municipalities shared parks, benches, mirrors to the natives. Our proposal is to give TAP transit charges to each municipality, depending on the kilometres the pipeline has crossed. No more mocking! Should we go to the National Guard, where is it on our schedule? To go to the region, to be more flexible, so that voluntary groups can be financed in order to organise better, help and contribute to civil protection. Cuvet for Tumbo Casta. Are we asking the government - was Velopoulos shouting - about Tymbus Casta: Will the monument of global radiation emerge? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Are we causing the northern neighbors? Where did the findings go, gentlemen, of the Ministry of Culture of the New Democracy? To tell us where the findings went, to tell us now what happens with the identification of the skeletons. Are they afraid of something? Tell us. Cuvet for Amphipolis and how it will be exploited. We're going to the IGM, the Institute of Geological and Mining Studies. As far as geothermality - I come from Serres - at the arc of Sidirokastro - Heraclea - Nigrita leaves the water, poured out. We could go - it is in our programme - in organized greenhouses, become a meditation and then auction. You'll be told by colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I have not heard of the reinforcement of the Port Corps. What about island Greece, which is a difficult complex? Is everyone who wants to come in and come out? Strengthen the Port Corps. Let's get to the roads. Good opening, gentlemen of SYRIZA, Egnatia, Ionia Street, and wherever you cut ribbons. The railroad doesn't have tolls. I didn't hear Mr. Mitsotakis talking about upgrading the railroad, about better handling of goods. Proposal of the Greek Solution: With special control, special labelling for sensitive products - and not only - which pass through the roads lower tolls, so that they can compete with the cost of production from large containers abroad. We do nothing for the Greek region. If you want to talk about a proper state, we need to upgrade the region. Separation: Why cannot municipalities and regions make so-called rural and craft parks? Upgrading of chambers of commerce. What do you want with the chambers? Do they only have presidents and members of your party enjoyable? Upgrade them so that they have an advisory and advisory role. Let's get some to the Prespes. We have heard of the brand name of products. What about the clubs and unions, ladies and gentlemen? The Macedonian football team - and so many unions - what's it called? Is this just a commodity side of the Prespecies Agreement? I ask, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, this: The ten Greek Members of Parliament have signed. Look at your children, freshen your historical memory, because SYRIZA's gentlemen believe the Prespecies Agreement is the Charter of King Ferraion or Anton Kyriazis for peaceful coexistence, please, of the Balkans! Ask yourself: Will you perhaps become the 25 strong MPs, where will you help us? We ask for self-evident: Signatures, an examination committee on the case of Macedonia. It's our debt. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Kastelorizo: We have learned from Velopoulos that it defines the AOZ. First we find out what the EOZ is and then we talk about the drills in the EOZ, which Stronglis cuts down the island of Ro and Kastelorizo or Megisti, which is its real name in Greek, so that we don't forget about it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, in the Gardens, in the countryside, in Promahona, in Krystallopi, in Cakavia and in Kastelorizo, Greece is not over. That's where Greece starts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Aygeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are starting a new parliamentary term, with optimism, vision and a plan. At the beginning of the new parliamentary term, I would also like to thank the institutions, from the Step of the House, my fellow citizens in Heraklion, who have honoured me with their vote for another term. I am also very grateful to the Prime Minister of our country, Mr Mitsotakis, for his confidence in me and honoured me with the portfolio of the State Secretary for Culture and Sport. Ladies and gentlemen, sport is an integral part of Greece's culture, the birthplace of the Olympic Games and the Olympic ideal. Sport is a huge cultural heritage. For the ancient Greeks the cultivation of the body is as important as the cultivation of the spirit. In classical Greece the two areas of human activity were sport for the body and music for the spirit. Of course, in modern Greece sport is under the protection and supreme supervision of the state, according to the Constitution. The Constitution itself in Article 12 requires the State to support sport, but also the possibility for citizens to join it freely through their organisations - clubs, sports associations, federations - in accordance with Article 16. Of course, sport has two more features: firstly, successes in sport unite us as a people. They create a sense of national pride, but also of unity, and that is something that we need as a country now more than ever. Secondly, sport brings the peoples of the whole world closer together. It creates a spirit of peace, of cooperation between the peoples and is a tool for even foreign policy. Sport, beyond our enormous cultural value, is also a great, but also a strong industry with many and important prospects. Ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy government programme we pay particular attention to sport. Our policies on sport are designed in conjunction with our policies on culture, education, health and the economy as a pillar of development and prosperity of our country's citizens. We want sport for the many, especially for the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, in sport we have to catch the mito of fight from the outset, from what sport means, from the values of sport as a valuable social and cultural asset. Our policies on culture include both amateur and professional sport, as well as mass sport. Our plan for sport includes the following pillars: Support for professional and high-performance sport. Improving sport law, emphasising transparency, dealing with mismanagement and, of course, eliminating violence. Respect for the self-government of federations and the creation of a genuine and positive climate of cooperation. Control and supervision of the sports activities of professional sport. We are creating a transparent framework for the recognition of sports organisations. We emphasise the update of the federations' regulations. We are directly creating an online register of sports organisations. We will seek, by respecting budgetary matters, to increase the financing of federations with a major concern to raise and distinguish national groups of all ages, class and sex. Prevention and treatment of violence: We are determined to hand over the courtesy, races and every day of the week back to families, to the fan public, to make sport entertainment for young and old, strengthening the sense of security and protection. In cooperation with FIFA and UEFA we are setting up an immediate committee which, taking advantage of international experience and examining the specificities of our country, will provide solutions, of course, in cooperation with the Standing Committee on the Management of Violence and all those involved, such as the Ministry of Civil Protection and Justice. As far as the preconscious struggles are concerned, the problem exists. We can't ignore it or put it under the rug. On the other hand, we must look at its real dimensions and not make arbitrary genealogies. We are determined to deal with it drastically, but above all directly. We will use good knowledge, experience and modern methods to deal with this phenomenon. Already, at a meeting I had with the FIFA-UEFA step we discussed addressing this problem and we will soon be able to say much more. In the next few days, there will be meetings with the OSH, the ligaments and all the OSCE presidencies. We shall take all possible steps to ensure that there is joint consultation and joint initiatives. We are therefore considering dealing with the problem in other group professional sports as well. As far as anti-doping is concerned, we are institutionally strengthening and supporting the mission and work of the National Doping Combat Council (ESCU). It is our political priority to support pure sport against the modern scourge of enhanced over-performance. We have already agreed to set up a Scientific Committee to support the work of the ESRB. At the same time, we place particular emphasis on synergies with scientific institutional and self-government bodies, aimed at developing information and prevention programmes, particularly primary and secondary school pupils, as well as making better use of human resources. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We support sport for everyone. Mass sports is our priority. We ensure proper sporting spaces to nurture citizens and especially young people in sport. We support and support the 'Sport for all' institution. We amplify sport in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. We are creating synergies with the OTAs, chambers, with legal persons, sports and social institutions, for the purpose of substantially strengthening mass sport. For example, we are ready for the first time this year for the distribution of positions for the prevention of Physical Education graduates of the "Suspension for All 2019-2020" programme. This also applies to the bathing teaching programme in the context of the Physical Education course in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Thirdly, with regard to sports facilities, the essential prerequisite for the effective development and support of sport is sports facilities. There is a need to modernise and maintain our sports facilities. We are planning a programme for the energy upgrading of sports infrastructures that will make a significant contribution to the drastic reduction in the operating costs of these infrastructures and to the protection of the environment. For this reason, and immediately, we begin working with the Technical Chamber of Greece. At the same time, we are considering the use of public and private partnerships, in cooperation with the General Secretariat of the PPP, as well as the use of programmes from the European Union or elsewhere, in order not to lose a single euro that could be exploited by our Ministry. We are taking initiatives to ensure that, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and other bodies, they quickly move forward, without delay, the building, completion and modernisation of sports facilities. It must be considered and promoted, for example, the degree of maturity of the projects for the new AEK field, the renovation of Mars and the conditions for the launch of that Panathinaikos in the Botanic and PAOK in Toumba.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u229	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u230	I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. We have already unblocked the question of funding the projects to upgrade the World Stage to the recent FIFA-UEFA meeting. Similar cooperations will be made in the very near future with all the regions and municipalities in the country from September to September, with the aim of making use of all the funding instruments. Regarding the exploitation of the OAS facilities, already in cooperation with the new Mayor of Amarousi, the new District Director of Attica and the President of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, we agreed on the framework of a programme contract for the use of the OAS, in cooperation with the private sector of course. In addition, at the premises of the OAS we are considering the establishment of a "Museum of Sports and Greek Olympians". And yet, there is no place in our country in the country that gave birth to the Olympic Games! In addition, we are looking for space to build an athletic centre for disabled people in Attica. Fourthly, about sports events...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u231	Minister, please finish. You spent two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much for your tolerance. We are already working for the best possible presence of our country in the Tokyo Olympic Games in 2020. We are working systematically to attract many more small and medium-scale events that can make our country a pole of sports tourism, attract investment, ensure money by strengthening the local economy, but also by modernising local sports facilities. We examine, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, the introduction of tax exemptions for sponsorships, donations to amateur sport, unions and federations. We are investigating the possibility of using an NSRF for sport. Our goal is through sport to improve the quality of life of all citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u233	Minister, we've reached ten minutes. I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u234	...and prepare better citizens for society. Our aim - and I conclude - is to stimulate the interest of society in sport and to form a youth culture, which will yield fruit in the medium term, leading to a healthier model of living. Of course, we say no to the logic of the state-owned model of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, our programme is not limited to this. This is only the beginning, but also the immediate priorities. We want and we work so that sport becomes a way of life. Sport is inextricably linked to the idea of olympism, noble speech, respect, grouping, competition, goodness, but also excellence and spiritual morality. Ladies and gentlemen, 'citius, altius, fortus', i.e. 'global, higher, stronger'. A new light period has begun for our country. Citizens have chosen realism, common sense and optimism. Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u235	You've been closed three times so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u236	...and within the context mentioned above, we are developing a series of synergies with the deserving and dear Minister of Culture, Ms. Mendoni, for the benefit of society, citizens and, of course, culture and sport. Madam Minister, I am sure that the excellent cooperation we have already developed will be beneficial to our country. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u237	Minister, you need some training. The third cycle of speakers has been completed and we continue with the parliamentary representatives. Mr Lebanese from New Democracy has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish good health first and foremost in the work of all of us. The composition of today's Parliament reflects the Greek people's mandate to go through a new era, not just to overcome the crisis, but to put a definitive end to the era of economic regression, and what it brought about for the great majority of Greeks, the era of anger and stagnation, the era of political decolonisation and the crisis of confidence, the time of blind anger, the divisive speech, toxicity. After all, that was the message, the people's mandate in the elections of 7 July, that the country should go forward and finally come out of the crisis. That's why he gave celebrity self-reliance to the New Democracy and made Mr. Mitsotakis a Prime Minister. That is why it rejected both the political products and the by-products of the time of crisis and blind rage, some of which were removed from the government, but most of which were sent to the margin outside this Chamber, hopefully and irrevocably. That is why the Greek people rewarded the unified word of the New Democracy. That is why it has chosen its positive policy, with its clear and concrete programming objectives. And it is particularly important that what the Prime Minister read yesterday in the Programmatic Declarations, just the same he had said, promised, and announced as the Chief of Antipopulation. He didn't say any more in the pre-election period yesterday. He said exactly the same. He promised a few and measured things so that he could quickly do everything, so as to show that there is another way to politics, because one of the first things that the current government has to do, as the President, Mr Tasoulas, in his first speech, has said, is to rebuild a new relationship of trust between Greek citizens and politics. The first reason, therefore, that Parliament is called upon to vote in favour of the government's Programmatic Declarations, is that Greeks and Greeks have already voted for a vote of confidence. The sovereign people gave their vote of confidence on 7 July. And these Programmatic Declarations reflect the spirit, reflect the modesty, sincerity and pragmatism of a coherent and comprehensive proposal that will change the country. The citizens have voted, ladies and gentlemen, fewer taxes. That's what we promised them yesterday, that's what we said in the pre-election period, that's what the Prime Minister analysed yesterday, that's what we'll do in the next few days bringing the first insurance. They voted for more security everywhere and they will have it. They voted for a better and more flexible state. And that's what we're gonna do. They voted for a more effective social state, for schools, for public universities, which will be a real lever for social mobility and will prepare the new generations of Greeks for a better tomorrow in a more difficult world. For hospitals not only based on the disapproval and heroism of their employees, they will respect the dignity of every citizen who is hospitalized. In the end, they voted for a better life and this is exactly what the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations are aimed at, the passage to a more optimistic, lighter, Greece. We have made an election commitment that we will succeed and we will succeed. The government this three-day is making its own positions clear. So it remains for everyone to seek out the role they desire in the new era that starts for our country. If he wants to adapt to the Greek people's requirement to pass into a new era or seek to perpetuate the evils of the previous one. If it adapts to its new role on the basis of today's data, or if it attempts to repeat outdated populist methods and logic of the past, despite the danger, not only to be taken as a farce but also as a tragedy. I want to believe that as long as we move away from the elections and the feelings of euphoria or bitterness that they create, they will all be able to reverse their role and strategy. I cannot, however, comment on the decency that my political education imposes on me, but also on his institutional role, Mr Tsipras's speech. The picture given to us yesterday by the former Prime Minister is that he has not yet stopped the election result, that he does not understand what is happening today in Greece. Mr. Tsipras said that he allegedly delivers Greece in a better situation than he received it. It's false. All the exhibitions of the time of all the international organisations in 2014 had more positive future forecasts for our country than followed by SYRIZA. He said Greece gained strong growth rates. What he did not say is that for four years SYRIZA - and I say it again on all fours - fell out of its objectives. He said he put order in the country's finances. He did not, however, say that this was done with unnecessarily excesses that kneeled the real economy, that he smashed the middle-class vengeance without, after all, helping our fellow citizens who are most in need. At the same time, private debt was escalated to the highest levels of all time. He said he took the country out of the memorials, and it is actually him, all of you, who have committed themselves to agreements on huge surpluses over time and have promised all of the public property for ninety more five years. And instead of doing, even now after the election, a self-critic, accuse Mr. Mitsotakis directly of defaulting his promise to reduce his surpluses, from today or even - as he said - from 2020. But Kyriakos Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the previous period, throughout the election, said exactly the same thing, that we will work hard, we will make the reforms needed, we will build credibility, and then we will discuss the surpluses. That's what he said yesterday, that's what we're gonna do. The "bariphery" logic chosen by you - not you, Mr Chakaloto, but your party, your government in 2015 - led us somewhere else that we do not want to see our country back there. I sincerely want to believe that the former Prime Minister and SYRIZA will not continue all four years at the same stormy rate of lies and distortion that has moved in previous years. This practice - you know well - was judged in elections. It may have dragged your own base, but it didn't get you out of a heavy defeat after all. Because no matter how many people are trying to make the situation look good, it has finally been the former government party: a strategic defeat with one of the biggest differences in the last forty years. So since, from the moment you have acquired speed from your first days in Anti-Population - and yesterday, today, let us see and tomorrow - you repeat a lot that does not apply, I would like to say that - but never - Mr Mitsotakis, in the run-up to the elections did not say that he would abolish the Prespecies' Agreement. Never. Because we knew that, unfortunately, it is not possible to do this, and as we have repeatedly said here and out of here, we are not like you who once electionally said that you will smash the memoirs, send Mrs Merkel away and all this and then drop it into the fraud. What we have said from the outset was that this is a bad and nationally harmful agreement, which granted Macedonian ethnicity and language and should not have been voted on. We have also said that if it is voted, despite the efforts we made at the time as a government, we will strive to soften up, mitigate its negative effects. And that's exactly what we're saying now. That's just it and nothing more. Looking for guilty silences, but it turns out you're always guilty voices. Continue the make news. You say that we're supposedly abolishing the ILO, we're abolishing the AEA. Where did you see all this? The complete distortion of reality. Not only are they abolished, but, on the contrary, as you have heard repeatedly, they are strengthened and dismantled, as they should be in any European country, their heads should be highly prestigious service directors, not selected by the government in question, but rather by transparent procedures, so that these state mechanisms are not used as means of party pressure. You also blamed us for PPC many times in this Chamber yesterday and today. Is that possible? Are you really saying that? You have managed to harm the country's largest company. Her stock exchange value, as you well know, has collapsed, has fallen by 83% and tell us that we are in danger because we have other thoughts, hidden. Tomorrow the Minister will fully analyse the plan for PPC and I wish you another position after that. All this and other less important is your criticism of a ten-day government. In all this storm of criticism, I have not heard one good word or one of the Prime Minister's positions yesterday with which you agree. Not even with it to reduce the EMSDDA. It's really a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Levane, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u240	Could I take my dentistry time as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u241	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u242	I do not want to go any further, nor to exacerbate the debate with the Prime Minister's speech and, more generally, with how SYRIZA chooses to oppose it. The citizens' crisis, moreover, from the recent elections is fresh. How one sees his role is his own case. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of what we in the first few months have done as our opposition, when you were driving - as I said before - the country on the cliff in the summer of 1915, when you were unlucky every day in the worst way against our resignation. The New Democracy then did what our patriotic conscience and national mission defines. We put our backs on to save the country. We did not think of the party's temporary good, but the long-term good of the place. You saw, however, that the citizens finally recognized us. Some of you recognized it, too, but you forget it along the way. And this testimony of national responsibility and credibility also contributed to getting, slowly, within this four-year period to gain the confidence of the Greek citizens again, making our self-criticism, building a modern and realistic programming speech, a coherent plan for tomorrow's country, renewing - and you see this - our operative potential, expanding our prolongation and bringing us worthy people from other places, outside politics, from the heart of society. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have again convinced the Greeks and the Greeks because we have taken not the easy path of evil but the difficult path of virtue. We encourage you, with respect always, to do the same, not only for the good of the country, but also for your own. So in the new beginning, let us all show our good face. We, anyway, will do that. We promised to turn a page, we promised a new, more optimistic and brighter Greece. She's the one we'll create. With these thoughts, I close and clearly declare that we will give the government a vote of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard many aspects of 'growth of political speech'. The return of bourgeois courtesy. Welcome. Only before the European elections, this urban politeness did not seem too much. What we've heard about liars, the murderous persecutors! Of course, then the European elections took place, you were on top, you knew you were going to win and you could be kind. Of course, man - made lies continued in your own media. When we get to the point where a serious journalist makes an interview that embarrasss any journalistic ethics, how much rather bourgeois courtesy, we know that something very seriously goes wrong with the bourgeoisie. Maybe we don't know. Maybe that's the civil order. When things are good, when they have access to power, when they control things, when profits are high, then we have civil courtesy. When they are in danger, when the spoil of power is not theirs, when they are afraid of their property, then courtesy goes for a walk. It's welcome, but test her at harder times. As far as the economy is concerned, we now know the framework for the next two years, a primary surplus of 3.5% for 2019 and 2020 and see how quickly you will build your credibility and therefore we will be able to discuss it. Why did you reject our plan on the part we put aside five billion? Did you reject it because it was a bad idea? So, do you think that the argument for Europeans that it is not a punishment of 3.5% is our contribution - this proposal can be unfair - to debt? Why not take this from not the money they gave us, but from the surpluses and we can have a reduced target for 2020? Did you reject it because in two or three days the institutions came and you couldn't negotiate it? We had a plan for a year not to reduce pensions. Did you in four days decide that you can't reduce the surplus using this 5.4 billion-dollar pillow? Did you reject it because austerity is within your plan, within your logic? The most worrying thing I heard from Mr Mitsotakis is that he must first - and he said it in relation to the surplus - we should put our house in order. You know, this phrase, ‘we should put our house in order’, is said by all of the People's Party in Eurogroup and ECOFIN, so is the right-wing social democrats. Not to discuss a European investment plan, not to discuss a large budget that will work for a stabilising system, not to allow the southern countries to make an alliance, when they know that this framework of budgetary austerity does not help Greece and the south, but to build our home. That is what the European People's Party tells us. Is that what you're saying? Do you not want European alliances to change this framework or do you support it? And within this framework, what about 2020? What will happen in 2019? I think that in 2019 we will not have three weeks of the government to reach the Greek people. All I understand is that we're going to have the 10% reduction and something for the hundred and twenty instalments. I don't think everyone's gonna be upset by the new government. 2020, how much is the financial area? Have you counted him? We say that there is no financial space. Have you calculated it? Can we have a number on what this financial area is? Your measures announced by Mr Mitsotakis are not exactly clear to us when certain measures can be spread over time - to 1.8 billion. How much do you think? You say less when the financial area is zero on us. How do you figure it out? How much do you figure it out? And how will you square the cycle by extending the tax base, by reducing the tax rate, or by getting 1.8 billion from tax evasion? And on the expenditure side, which of our benefits will you keep? The pension we have given for a permanent measure. Do you have it for a permanent measure? Is the housing staying or not staying? For the children, will he stay or won't he stay? And for your own measures, the EUR 2,000 for each child is or is not there? I didn't hear anything from the Prime Minister. One by one, in relation to one to five you were talking about, staying or not? It has budgetary consequences. Aren't we entitled to know, so we can have a serious conversation, whether or not he lives? The Prime Minister didn't say a word about the pensions. We will have economies of this or we will also reduce social contributions - so other expenditure - and we will see where that goes. Moreover, for pensions, do you realize that what you have announced - which the Prime Minister has not announced - has great consequences not only for pensioners but also for young workers? It has consequences for workers because a proportion of the population has to pay contributions to both the current pensioners and their own pensions. When I said this on the channels with Mr Voridis and Mr Hatzidakis, I was told that these are transitional problems. Only they are transitional problems for which either you have to find money or the new workers will pay them. It's only transitional. And I don't want to blame you, because I'm not that kind of person. There is a great deal of clarity from your 'Maryanto' reasons. Remember, Maria Antoinette said "if they have no bread, they can eat pancakes". You say 'if there is no bread, you can get suppression'. What's this Ministry of Foreign Affairs anyway? Does he have it all? Is it the middle of the big liberal party school for children in prison to have it, and not the Ministry of Education? Is this a way to deal with prisoners? Or should the police have it? Mr Varoufakis said yesterday in his speech that the repression is a consequence of your economic measures. The problem is a little deeper, although I agree with what Mr Varoufakis said. You create as Right a new majority on a cultural agenda that in the center is repression. That's how it's made. The enemies, the immigrants, the invasion, the psychological problems we have of SYRIZA that we regard as heroes the people who fought at the Polytechnics. I have to tell you that I am proud not only of them, but also of Belogan and Petroula and all these heroes! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But it is not funny because that is how you make a majority culturally that this can be forgotten and continued. Only it won't come out of you, because this agenda, the "right", which we make enemies with the repression, the xenophobia, always goes right, because how long will the middle layers be eaten by suppression, how long will they eat? The middle strata everywhere have suffered from policies such as yours in Britain and France and Spain, because no such government can do real tax relief. That is why I put this into the budget space and your tax relief, because very quickly these medium-sized strata will see that the tax will fall from 28% to 24%, if you find the space, but taxes will not exist and you will not be able to help these medium-sized strata because poverty is not reduced and growth is not increased by presidential decrees. Poverty is a very complex problem for all administrative societies and wants very specifically targeted measures to address them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need two minutes, Mr. President. Growth, which of course needs investment, but investment is 10%-12% of GDP, you do not reach 4% with some tax relief, with profit tax reductions, and we will reach 4%. He needs a big programming. Just one example here. Research and technology why does it go to development from education? This working view - an approach is disastrous by people who do not understand that research to work and for the economy must be autonomous. Research has long-term consequences, it has indirect effects on growth, it's not a tooling thing that you're doing research now and you have technology, innovation and it's doing right away. And putting growth on that, you forget. Obviously for growth and green development you are committed, and that is why you have made Mr Georgiadis responsible for development, because in the last ten years I have been tired of listening to Mr Georgiadis talking about green development - he is almost his refresher - he is not talking about anything else, about green development and how that will be created. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If anyone believes that Mr. Georgiadis will bring about green growth, he has greater confidence in human nature than I have. Finally - and this is my real end, Mr President - by 2015 the word reform had depreciative times: lower wages, reduction in pensions, less rights. What SYRIZA managed after 2015 is to turn that around.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u245	Do you want to take time from your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u246	I shall conclude in thirty seconds, Mr President. What we have managed to do is reform to connect with the housing allowance for children, reform to be for collective agreements and to increase the minimum wage. And what we will achieve in the future is not to let the word reform mean what was in place before 2015, to be proud of the people, to return these social and political forces that must give this word the right time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to everyone, to those who are here today, because we are here following the choice made by the sovereign Greek people in relation to our own faces. Congratulations, above all, to the President of the Parliament, who was almost all supported by this House - universal was support for his face - and he is raising, increasing, increasing and increasing his own responsibilities. Finally, as I have done all the years of my political career, I must wish the government a success. Mr President, I really want to believe that the elections of 7 July will be a milestone. It is my hope, firstly, that it was abolished, stopped, that it was interrupted with the choice of the sovereign Greek people, a period when inefficiency, populism, inability and demagogy, four and a half years of constant government failures and also institutional aberrations prevailed, to be some in power. It is what I have been saying over the years that Greece has had to go through - the only country from the countries that hit the crisis - the second phase of crisis, by seeking to become a government, which they have achieved. Some of their words have been heard and yesterday in summary form at the National Representation, but fortunately they are words that do not form majority, parliamentary connections. The second reason why I am confident that we have returned a page is that if you look at the Chamber it is immediately noted that the political triumphs raised by the crisis and because of the crisis are no longer here. And that is very positive and creates legitimate hopes. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks are unable to withstand other political toxins and urgently ask for the place to return to the economic, political and social page. At this critical time, then, majestics, majesty, proclamations of vague intents and vows must be out of place and time. I would like to refer to the words of the Government, the Ministers and the Prime Minister in the programming declarations which we are listening to, with our own words, confronting them, because when we talk about programming declarations, ladies and gentlemen, we are opposed to words, there are still no acts against which the opposition should be placed. On Tuesday, however, dialogue or conflicts involving government work are beginning now and the criticism of counter-population. I shall start by saying a few words about the Prime Minister's statements, criticizing one phrase. To conclude the political approach of his own government spoke of new patriotism. I have also told my colleagues, to Yiannis Maniatis, I have also told friends politicians from the past, Mimi Androulakis, I have also told fellow Members at the first time of the government of Giorgos Papandreou that there are no new and old patriotisms. Patriotism is neither progressive nor reactionary is the oldest or oldest is and of course is not young. Neopatriotis as a term is unknown in Greek. For this reason let us look at how each individual serves the national line and let us leave these designations, which we have heard many times, in Greek political life, but they say nothing. And since I'm talking about patriotism, I want to make a reference to the scout in the so-called Macedonian. It is unjust to criticise that you have changed your mind from 'a' to 'o'. But there is a politician on behalf of a party who did not go down to the rally when they asked us whether we would go, we said 'no'. And a politician speaks to you on behalf of a political party who did not tell SYRIZA that he made the change to win the non-cutting of personal difference and gave Macedonian. We have not said so twice why we have the right to tell you that you may not have gone from 'a' to 'e', but we remember very well your Chief and now Prime Minister saying that the Presidencies's Agreement has taken effect since it was ratified - true - but it also says that the country's course towards the European Union will have an obstacle to the Presidencies' agreement and that your Government will have a starting point to improve certain conditions. You said that and your members and your MPs were front at the rallys and at the marches. You are obliged to listen to criticism and you will listen to it. It seems with light jumpers you're leaving those seats and we're going to tell you. Repeat, who? We, who did not go to the marches or blame the government at the time for being traded in order to win the non-cutting of the personal difference in pensions. Secondly, we agree with tax exemptions, with the reduction of HISPIA. We agree with the new regulations for the hundred and twenty instalments. We will, however, see the specific or concrete draft laws to determine our position. But we also agree with the criticism - I heard it from Yiannis Varoufakis and it is right - that, for the advance payment of 100% of the tax on the next financial year, you did not say a word. And this 100% deposit is a disaster for free professionals and businesses. As you also did not say a word - and Mrs Gennamas underlined this yesterday - about the horrendous choice of the Tsipra government to pass all the property of the Greek public for a century to foreigners. Thirdly, Prime Minister and dear and dear colleagues of the New Democracy, Ministers and others, the measures I have mentioned above, and I said that we agree, but we expect to see the draft laws - and others agree not only with us - how are they compatible with abandoning the objective, which was immediate to you, of reducing the primary surpluses to 2%? How will the equation come out? How will all this be done in 2019 and 2020, while for 2019 and 2020 the primary surpluses will remain on the signatures of Mr Tsipras? This equation doesn't come out. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great deal of mention on this subject. I wonder how this is going to happen. Do you have surprises in the course of this financial year? Will you open a card, for which you haven't warned us, and take it otherwise? If that is not the case, there is no prospect of doing what the Prime Minister said yesterday. And if you can tell us that at the rate of growth in investment and the reduction of taxes you will be able to achieve this, I have to say to you - I used the term in the previous House that the country needs'socrates' growth - that in order for what you say and the equation to remain intact, you need 'conflictive' growth rates. How will these rates emerge in the next few days, weeks and months? As part of my hint on finances, I would point out that we will be as a Change Movement, as a PASOK, in the start of a struggle to have some positive regulation for microbiologists who trusted the Greek state and lost their money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am going to use all my dentistry, my five-minute. Positive was the Prime Minister's report on the waste. It's negative he didn't tell us how. How many governments have not referred to this issue which humiliates Greece, Greece, which is mainly self-sufficient in tourist areas? This is the biggest challenge for the country. Not for her image, but for her economy. It is a challenge with enormous cost-effectiveness, as long as we act aggressively. With simple references to good management of the issue, there is no prospect. For asylum, I don't mean to say, I don't have time. What Mrs Gennamas said is expressing me: lawlessness, interference, drugs and sorrow, this must end. I am transferring you the entire phrase of residents or professionals in the area that ASE operates, the Economic University, one of the best universities in the country: "It is unacceptable for those traffickers who are outside and mocking the police who are trying to force order. These are unacceptable images." This has to stop. Yes, in the free movement of ideas, obviously, not in this terrible situation that has prevailed not only in recent years, but which has been there for many years. This has to end. I don't have any delusions. I was the Minister of Education, when he was taken over by Fortsakis Ministry, the Prefecture of the University of Athens by our own law, the Government of Papandreou, in force. The police didn't intervene. The law allowed it. The police didn't intervene. And when the Prime Minister then decided to invite her, then the occupants got away. Someone whistled it and they left. The return to that law is not enough. Other interventions are needed to ensure that legislation is effective. Do not rest in a cliché, which does not solve the problem and expose the National Representation, at least those who say that this problem has to end. Last issue concerning the Programming Declarations, I have lived with other very few Members and SYRIZA. Preparing the dissolution of the House, Thursday - Friday the House was dissolved and on Saturday we passed in an election period - the draft law concerning the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure came to Parliament. This is a work that began from the time of Harry Castanides. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has changed many times. People have come to some changes that are very good and useful, especially the modern dealing and regulation of issues relating to economic crime, and because the Minister and the Government were ashamed of these good contributions, they covered them with a thousand articles. I came here. There were more here of the committee sitting on these chairs, more of the majority Members, New Democracy was absent, and it was me who denounced and left. I asked the government tenth time - tenth time! - to implement something that a senior prosecutor had advised me, because he told me that he needed a dialogue, and I was answering - I am an active lawyer - that there are provisions that need to be voted on, that are good. He said: "Still them, do a draft law for them, vote for them and the other one to talk about it, because you don't know what's in it and what you're voting on." The releases came - not the release news that they had many times and extravagant doses, the real releases - to show that the government was wrong. Indeed, in practice, the legislative content, which I think the then Minister for Finance had signed, was an amendment to the Criminal Code. Two three days after this plenary session of shame there was an amendment from the government itself. And now that I've been looking at a case handled by my office, I saw in a provision that there's this and her opposite underneath. Apparently, they forgot to take off one of the two because of the study. These are unacceptable and should not have been done. That is why it is absolutely essential to discuss the changes that need to be made again and not with urgency. The changes will come, we'll talk about them. They're no longer codes you take or leave them. According to Article 76 of the Constitution, you can talk. It'll be a draft law, but you'll give us time. We will not do things for which anyone who votes will have to deal with them after the criticism of the Greek people. Mr President, I shall end with a few words on PASOK, the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u249	You've exhausted the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u250	I have three minutes of tritology. I'll take her, and I'll never talk again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will try - and we will do so, I believe - to en sure a kind of opposition that is not so well known and common in Parliament, and perhaps even hard, but responsible and fair, a recipe that we have tried to keep in the past four years. This is the quintuosity of democracy, but also of our political idiosyncrasies, to touch in wide political and social strata and what we tell them to be useful, to be able to catch a place. We are the political party that has thrown light on the weak and changed Greece. And we are the political party that has managed the crisis itself for two and a half years, with the insults of the whole Opposition and demonstrations on the road. We were holding the country up and hitting us under the side. I urge to ensure that we are a political force which refers to modern European social democracy, a political area which is struggling for growth and social justice. As far as we are told, we will be under pressure from the left and from the right, it is not wrong as a thought. We too have this thought: as far as the pressure on the right is concerned, the right is a government. He'll deal with the facts and the problems. It will be measured and judged. I'm not saying there are already alarming samples. That's all said. But as I said at the beginning of my speech, politics begins on Tuesday and the first draft laws you will bring from your political behaviour. The power of events, the genealogies of declarations and the great promises for us will be the counterweight to your own pressures. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, I've said it. I'm going to add something that came up as a matter of the other day. You did not vote for Vice-President of the House Odysseus Konstantinopoulos and you showed character. He hurt you for opposing you. Obviously, you'd like to be thrown with flowers. But that wouldn't have happened. You have already facilitated us from the first day and the pressure you are organizing, we will deal with them on the basis of your recent government past, your relations with the dark at certain times, but also your last attitude to vote against only you for the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Constantinople, to whom I wish for the second time a good success. Ladies and gentlemen, with these positions we are voting against the government's programming declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution. You also asked for the time of your dentistry, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u252	Yes, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to appeal to twenty Members who still need the Greek Solution to support the appeal of the Pamacedonian Associations against Mr Kotzia to investigate the crime of the Prespecies Agreement. The agreement, as Mr Vorides said earlier, is of interest, while the 70% of the Greeks who objected to the agreement by Mr Skourletis, again, as right-wing and patriots elements. I would remind you that Mr. Kotzias had referred to a heirly mob. As for the advice that Mrs Vultesis gave us, is it really the forty scientists who sent to the former Prime Minister a letter to cancel the agreement? Apparently not. On my point now. I listened with caution yesterday but also with great surprise to Mr Mitsotakis' benefits, which I calculated would cost several billion euros. As if Greece had a strong economy without problems. Unless Mr. Tsipras left him a treasure he didn't spend by election, as he blamed him and he didn't reveal him to us. It must, however, have a magic wand to make available so much money within the policy of the memoranda - which, of course, did not end - and to develop Greece, despite the delay in reducing the primary surpluses for 2021. If this magic wand is growth through foreign investment, synonymous with the sellout of public enterprises, as SYRIZA did after 2015 and equivalent measures that will make Greeks even more poor, then he will find us across the street. A similar statement was made by Mr Tsipras, who referred to a full public fund of EUR 37 billion. The question here is: why did it then obligate the public sector agencies to submit their surpluses of approximately EUR 26 billion to the Bank of Greece? Why was the state borrowing from there, paying 2.5% interest rate for fifteen days, a charge of more than 500 million a year for taxpayers? Why did it remove the liquidity of the banks, so that they cannot lend the real economy? Finally, while listening to Mr Varoufakis, I found that he has not copied the Greek Solution project only New Democracy at the points mentioned by the President of our resignation. Another party has also been copyed by Mr Varoufakis, as regards the establishment of a management company for red loans. We've mentioned it many times, without that means we've discovered the wheel. We were simply proposing what the United States did in 1933, when faced with a crisis similar to Greece with a very positive result. I wonder, of course, why he didn't do it as long as he was Minister of Finance if he really knew and wanted to. But the question is rather rhetorical. Our view of Greece now differs considerably from that of the Government and the Civilian Representation. We simply know that her situation is three worse than that in 2009. The central government's public debt, along with intra-government borrowing, has been launched at 360 billion today, over 190% of GDP, from 301 billion in 2009 or 127% of GDP rather than the PSI. At the same time, red private debt, along with public debt and fines, has exceeded 330 billion or 175% of GDP today by almost negligible that was in 2009. In addition, banks have been left behind and face major problems. The country's productive tissue has been broken down. The portability of the Greeks has been zeroed. PPC has been completely devalued, dealing with survival issues. And that was not the case by Mr Tsipras, but much earlier. The last deadline for the restructuring of PPC was in 2008. They've transferred everything to the supreme office as a guarantee. Almost all our negotiating papers have been lost, along with our national sovereignty. Debt continues to rise unstable and much more. I could, of course, be challenged by saying that at least two fundamental problems were solved in our country. The first is our budget deficit, which was surplus in 2008, by 1.1% minus 15.1% in 2009. In other words, for the first time, the State had more revenues from costs. Also, our current account deficit, which from minus 12.1% in 2009 reached a minus 0.8% in 2015. This means that the money we gave abroad was about the same as what we collected from abroad. However, the first was achieved by the total poverty of the people and by excessive taxation of them, while the second was mainly the introduction of domestic devaluation policy, in particular the reduction of wages in the context of memoranda. This disastrous policy has removed massive demand from us and burned hundreds of thousands of jobs. At the same time, it has driven our children out abroad and reduced our GDP by over 25%, i.e. more than EUR 60 billion. At the same time, the other countries in Europe developed over 10%, so that the gap between the Greek economy and the others increased by more than 35% today, compared to 2009. Even worse, however, any competitiveness of our economy was won in this brutal way, i.e. at the expense of employees' wages, began to get lost from 2016 onwards. Thus, the current account deficit has taken us up again, reaching a minus 2.9% of GDP in 2018. So, once again, we have again begun to give more foreign currency than we receive, that is, more than 5 billion a year. With regard to 2019, the appalling rise in our trade deficit to less than 16% in the first five months is more than a bad omen for our current account balance and growth, and without sustainable growth we will not solve any problems, neither the insurance nor any other. This will affect many other economic sizes of the country, such as the current account balance, which already had a deficit of 4.8 billion in the five months of 2019, but also GDP, since it is one of its four factors. I would remind you that GDP is consumption, private investment, public spending and trade balance. After three successive memorials, loan contracts, therefore, reminding us that Greece is unique on the planet that was given something like this, after the criminal PSI with which we lost all our negotiating papers plus our national domination, while we bound hand-to-hand as a nation, after the mortgage of everything and their transfer to the U.S., after the sale of public businesses at degrading prices, after so much blood and so much tears, the competitiveness of our economy did not even benefit. Of course, since only with wage cuts and without investment, it was obvious that this would happen. Good or bad, however, the citizens have recently voted for those parties that, with their policy or with the tolerance they have shown to our country's creditors, have made the most of this disaster. They voted because, unfortunately, they were convinced that there was no other solution than the Memorandum. It's a big mistake. To take them now in their historical order, because we have to judge by the actions and not by the words we have heard today or at times and by the many 'will', I will say the following. The Greeks voted for PASOK or the Change Movement with its new name, which increased the public debt from about 20% of GDP in 1981 to 100% ten years later, as part of the construction of the client state. The result was then the launch of Greece's borrowing interest rates at 25% and its compulsory agreement to enter the Eurozone, otherwise interest rates would continue upwards and Greece would go bankrupt. Instead of using low interest rates to reduce debt, however, waste continued, among others, with Olympic projects. I would remind you here that PASOK was unable to manage its own finances properly. Today, he owes more than 250 million euros in spite of the brutal state subsidies he received. The Greeks voted for New Democracy, which in 2009 launched public spending at 33.7% of GDP in relation to lower revenues even since 2000, i.e. only 20.3%. As a result, it was the huge budget deficit delivered by PASOK, which did all it could to lead Greece to the IMF. The New Democracy, of course, was the one who prepared the disaster by deciding irresponsible elections at a time when the whole planet was submerged in the crisis and liquidity worldwide had deprived itself of it. Finally, the New Democracy along with the PASOK launched the second memorandum and the PSI, which has taken place for the first time in world history. It is unnecessary to stress that the only year that Greece did well, achieving a small growth rate, was in 2014. The cause? Simply stopping the policy of the memorandum, as evidenced by the very small increase in taxes by 1.1% and by the rise in expenditure by 2.1%, according to international studies. In any case, even the New Democracy was unable to manage its finances properly, since despite the also brutal state subsidies it received in the past, about EUR 2.5 million monthly, it currently owes more than EUR 290 million. The Greeks voted against SYRIZA, which reversed the 2015 referendum, which signed the third memorandum with the New Democracy and the PASOK, guaranteeing the two previous ones, which sold the banks, which transferred everything to the supranational, which began the seizures and auctions of the citizens' homes and continued the policy of sublime and inclinations towards Chancellor. The worst of all, however, was that SYRIZA convinced the Greeks that there are no alternatives to the policy of monuments, which, of course, is not the case, "killing" their last hope. In order to be objective, we have to conclude here that in order to maintain high levels and to raise the deficit of our current account and not only, it is to a large extent because of Germany's policy of wage dumping, that is, its mercanisation, unfortunately, coupled with the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which was fully adapted to the needs of Germany. As for Greece's sudden death in 2010, in relation to its funding, a large share of responsibility has been given to the reversals of capital flows, of which the Asian crisis was also caused. The Greeks voted for Mera25, whose head is entirely responsible for signing the agreement of 20 February, also for not imposing any control over funds in the face of the conflict with creditors, which led to outflows of EUR 33 billion and dismantled our banking sector. The cost to all of us was more than EUR 40 billion lost by charging public debt, EUR 17 billion deferred taxes and many other aftermath. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All of this is a past, but it is bound up with Greece. However, because what we should be interested in is the future, and especially the recovery of our national sovereignty, we must at least draw up a government's own exit plan from this trap before at least one of our countries. It must be borne in mind that without the drastic reduction in taxes, it is not going to have a future with the countries surrounding it, at the same time as the rise in public investment and the central planning of the economy. It must understand that we must finally change economic model by adopting a modern and what Greece deserves. Basic pillars of being the primary sector by transforming it and by high-tech methods, quality tourism, which is unacceptable to the arrivals, but to reduce per capita expenditure, shipping in the way Dubai handles it. These pillars must support the revival of our industry, where if we increase its GDP by only 1%, jobs are created for the two thousand new jobs, which will enable our children to return behind the countries that have been banished by the governments of the Memorandums, stressing that at the costs of their adulthood around EUR 200,000 per person they have cost Greece more than EUR 100 billion, which we have donated to the host states. In order to finance this, a state-owned investment bank must certainly be set up, as well as an investment bank specialising in shipping, for the example of South Korea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Villardo, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u254	One more second, Mr President. In conclusion, all this must be launched quickly, since it is extremely likely that it will resurface both Europe and the rest of the planet with painful consequences for our country if it finds us unprepared, as we are surely here today. I deliver to the minutes the graphs that substantiate the numbers I said before. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graphs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u255	Before Mr Grigoriadis, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to you No 11697/6665 of 21 July 2019 a decision by the President of the Parliament on the recommendation of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament and defining their responsibilities. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. [[The abovementioned Decision reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Let the pages in. 334-335
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u256	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first I wish to wish wholeheartedly good success to all of you, and I hope that you will transfer this success to protection against the completely unprotected, for ten consecutive years, of the Greek people. I must confess to you that I am am amazed at the misinformation that exists out there about the parties of the Greek Parliament, their views and their actions. Until three days ago, for example, I myself had no idea that the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement are basically antimonist parties. But I have just heard from our Prime Minister's own lips yesterday that the primary surpluses imposed by creditors on our debt-government for the 40 years to come are completely undevelopmental and strangle our economy. I immediately thought that man would not have voted for them and simply slandered him for so many years the ideological left-wing groups of disinformation. Then I listened to the Prime Minister and today Chief of Officerial Representation, with passion for disobeying the current Prime Minister because he has not already started a fighter negotiation on these just the surpluses now that he has a fresh mandate and his people in attendance. He asked him why he is sliding and leaving them for later, and this is the greatest time of his power. He even pledged that if the Prime Minister enters such a struggle, he would put aside the old hate and help with all his powers. So it is excluded, I thought, that he should be the same person who brought the House to vote in 2015 precisely the primary surpluses for the next forty-five years. Mr Tsipras, who I saw and heard last night, would certainly vote for a bronze 'no' to all these surpluses. It seems, however, that the channels of interlocutory are doing just as good a job as the left-wing ideological disinformation groups, and so I, the fool for so many years, thought that this third and most horrific memorandum, has been brought to us by SYRIZA. I hadn't realized that about a year ago it was over. That's the kind of brainwash they suffered so I really thought the memorandum was still going on. In fact, at times I confessed to you, I felt it might get worse. Finally came the most horrendous revelation, the revelation of the Change Movement, perhaps the most slandering party of all. Some who do not hesitate at all dare to claim to have their roots in PASOK. Listen to this! If it is ever possible for the Change Movement to have the roots of PASOK, the party that started all this vicious circle of memorials. Last night, however, the Chief of the Change Movement, Mrs. Fofi Gennimata, put things in place. He burned off the government and its Prime Minister, who in his Programming Declarations did not find - he says - not a single word to say about this unscrupulous superstition that will unleash all our national treasures for crumbs over the next 100 years. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I had come to believe that her and most of her party MPs had voted four years ago to set up this superstate. Fortunately, in the end, the good Greek people gave me the honour of sending me to the Greek Parliament. I see them here, and I hear them all clean and nobody can fool me anymore. Now I know that in the Greek Parliament there is a strong anti-monstrous bow made up of the three largest parties and the only omission in our national order all these years to get rid of our terrible slavery has been the immoral, sublime and nationally dangerous six-month period of Baroufaki negotiation, where the atheist has played our country in the dice, throwing it on the rocks almost, thus forcing all the political leaders mentioned to behave for a single moment in time as memorials, just to save us from the deleted national disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, as our country enters the tenth year of implementation of memoranda some things have become extremely clear and you know them, as we know them. Firstly, the economic alloy of harsh class austerity, the achievement of outrageously high primary surpluses for extraordinarily long periods of time, the deregulation of all industrial relations, the horrific overtaxation of natural and legal persons, the endless recapitalisation without the slightest possibility of refining private banks is and it proves to be completely ineffective. It is noted here that today, ten years later, our debt is tens of billions higher than the start of his service effort and while we have already paid up another full debt in the meantime. Secondly, the confession of the previous government on several occasions that it is forced to pursue policies that it does not believe, like this government, that in 2015 it was forced to vote as an Anti-Policy at that time, including many other painful measures of the memorandum brought by SYRIZA, and the primary surpluses until 2060, which, as she says today, require immediate renegotiation, as if they were still there, will strangle for the next forty years any chance of a real economic recovery, and unfortunately the Greek Parliament has a great theatre, at which every day and years is now playing exclusively the theater of the absurd. Thirdly, the preamble to the statement by the newly elected Government of New Democracy that it intends to negotiate lower primary surpluses, lifting tax reductions, etc. In the next few years, however, without risking any break with our lenders, it actually means - and we are all well aware of this - that, unfortunately, our new government does not intend to negotiate at all, but simply to beg. Fourthly, after ten years of constant begging, no one among us now doubts their absolute ineffectiveness. And as the demonization of any possibility of break-up by all the Memorandum parties makes a one-way path for the country - as long as any of these parties govern it, of course - the generalisation of the economic recession, its desertification by young people, but also by some point and then the total loss of our national sovereignty and the ultimate tradition of the country to the lenders, comes up, I fear the irreversible question for all of us here: If all this is so - and you know that it is - and if that is what we all know in here - that we all know about it in here -, when do we, ladies and gentlemen, intend to share our secret with the Greek people? The question is not how, first of all, one could only consider an idealist or emotional question. It is, on the contrary, a very practical question, because with a people misguided, which is systematically hiding the truth, no government of this world, either on the right or on the centre, will ever gain the popular prerogative needed to resolve this national economic tragedy by finally passing through the eternal stage - let me say - of ordering that of the real negotiation, of a moderate, reasoned, but at last real negotiation. In simple terms, ladies and gentlemen, as long as you do not share your guilty secret with our innocent people - we must note that the Communist Party of Greece is excluded - you are seducting the future of the next Greek, left, right and centred, you are seducting the future of all our next children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. Finally, let me close by reminding the House that throughout the long history of our country, nothing has been given to us by anyone. We kicked the Persians out on our own. We have created the basis for our European culture ourselves. We were freed from the Turks by ourselves. We have crushed our Italian aspiring conquerors and expelled with our national resistance, left-wing and right-wing, little in time united - just then came the destruction of the Civil War - the Nazis from our homeland. Finally, we overturned the unforgettable revolt of the Polytechnic, the seven-year-old colonel dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, all these brilliant pages of our history have one common denominator, the risk you do not want to take. And as of all the hereditary things our glorious ancestors left to us most undeniably, in my opinion, is our dignity, please tonight with all the power of my heart, the risk of rethinking it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too. I call on Mr Lebanese to give her a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u259	I will speak after Mr Chakaloto, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u260	Good. Mr. Leonardis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my fellow Serbs through my heart, who trusted me and gave me the opportunity to fight for them, for Greece, for our prefecture. I'll work with all my powers to justify them. The message of the elections was strong and clear. Citizens want a strong Greece with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is a great responsibility for all of us to our fellow citizens. A new hope unites us and we need to live up to the expectations of the citizens who have easily supported us for a better life for all, especially for our children. Our fellow citizens are now calling for solutions that are practicable and realistic for their problems by a responsible New Democracy government that will implement its plan for the reconstruction and recovery of the country at all levels. We all need respect for every citizen who has put his hopes to us, seriousness in the exercise of our duties, away from populism, to regain the confidence of the citizens who are giving power and efficiency to our efforts. We are starting the country's governance in order to meet all our commitments that we aspire to change the country's image. We are implementing a national action plan. This project ensures social solidarity by creating opportunities for all. It creates new, well-paid jobs by encouraging investment and boosting entrepreneurship and private initiative. It reduces taxes and contributions, thus increasing the actual available income of all Greeks. He guarantees the security of the citizen in his home, in his neighborhood, in his town and in his village. It protects the environment. It ensures young people access to a modern, quality education system. It ensures citizens' access to high-level public health services. It is facing the huge demographic problem, which is a time bomb for our country, with new policies that will curb this scourge. It is regrettable that the empty villages and in a few years' time the desertification of the countryside will be the number one national problem. Our task is to prevent the extinction of the rural area by highlighting agricultural policy, focusing on the Greek farmer and farmers who have been supporting our national economy for decades. Along with the new common agricultural policy, which we will be claiming for the next rural development programming period, we must, at the same time, take measures to reduce production costs, measures for the big problems of farmers, which in recent years reduced prices of milk have been despaired. Regional development, however, also requires infrastructure projects which have been delayed because priority has been given to the major roads. Distribution of natural gas, provincial roads and improvement projects must be planned and implemented more quickly, in cooperation with the regions. It is necessary to cover as soon as possible the basic shortages of hospitals in human resources. The coverage of Serres Hospital in doctors is only 65%. A solution is needed immediately for its proper functioning. Continuation of work in Amphipolis, on the hill of Kasta, which for us is a monument of global radiation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are immediately starting legislative initiatives to regenerate the middle-class, to support building activity, from which there are dozens of jobs, with significant reductions in taxes from now on. We have been cutting down on HNPH since this August, we are suspending VAT on building and capital gains on purchases and sales, reducing the tax on businesses from 29% to 24% and later to 20% in two phases, starting from September, reducing the first tax rate on natural persons to 9%, from 22% currently being, the VAT is being reduced by two rates of 11% and 22%, from 13% to 24%, which is today, gradually abolishing the trade charge and the special solidarity levy, reducing the social security contributions to 15%, from 20% to 20% today. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens have done their duty, trusted us and are waiting for us to implement our programme. Young people who have stayed hostilely watch the next moves of the government to live up to the hope of returning to the Patriarchal Territories, waiting for an opportunity to root professionally in our country. Young people who have stayed home with all the facilities offered by education, science, art will insist on building their household here, at the place they love, looking for better and more choices of work. Small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals want to stand on their feet, waiting for new measures, fiscal and development, which will alleviate the market. Farmers and farmers hope that the government will ensure with its policy that it supports and is more concerned about the primary sector. Citizens expect greater security, better health services, more quality daily life in their dealings with the public. Are they wrong? Definitely not. We can manage to offer them a lot of work and what we see is lacking, such as the delay in the awarding of pensions. Reforms and changes in the organisation and structures of services, modern state without bureaucracy, citizen-friendly businessman, investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Madam President. I believe that our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us have the intention, the mood, the ability to create a more efficient state, with structural changes in education, public administration, justice and computerisation. The country can really take off. It has an opportunity to experience a virtuous period of progress and development. We can make life better for every Greek and every Greek and especially for the next generations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u264	Mr Colleague, take time from next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u265	And as Kavaphis said: “Have trust in life, he knows what he does. He knows what he's bringing, what he's getting back. Just find out what she wants to tell you with her actions. Don't regret anything. Never. Only for inertia.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u267	This, ladies and gentlemen, must be careful to achieve, with hard work always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u268	Mr Colleague, take time from the next speaker and you know it. It's a shame. It's two minutes further than the time you're entitled to. Mrs. Anagnostopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes. I would ask you to keep the time, because there will be colleagues who will not be able to speak in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we completed the forty-five years from the Republic of Cyprus, and I would like to remind you that this Parliament, chaired by Nikos Voutsi, finally published the Cyprus file. It is a great guide on the road to democracy, which we must not forget. The second thing I want to remind you is another guide on this difficult path for democracy in this country. Today is the anniversary of the murder of Sotiris Petroula in Juliana in 1965. I keep listening to this Chamber and to systemic media called'return to normality and rupture with the past'. What regularity and rupture with what past? The expressions, the phrases 'class and safety' indicate one thing: follow-up from a past which is not the best possible. It shows uniformity above all and not equality. A similarity that covers inequality, and that is why they blame us for a divisional reason, because anyone who highlights the inequalities is considered to be divisional, while anyone who puts a veil of uniformity is united. We shall therefore insist on that: Inequality must also be brought about by disparity and controversy, which is a part of democracy, and it has been paid very well by this people to leave it like this. So what keeps the New Democracy going on, the new government in this bright future that promises us? With what powers in Europe does it give this battle towards the bright future? Listening to the Programming Declarations these days, especially by the Prime Minister, but also by the ministers of the new government, I saw nothing but a reflection of the policies of the most liberal conservative forces with Europe's extreme right-wing ends. Let's go to the first point: I heard Mr Varvitsiotis today, the Deputy Minister for European Affairs, who said very rightly that 'we will fight for the Cohesion Fund and for the Common Agricultural Policy to be the same' etc. Yes, sir. These are the two most important funds which have been built in a splendid period of Europe and on which solidarity has been based. Mr Varvitsiotis told us, however, that in order to survive these funds, we can have solidarity between the Member States in Europe, to have a social state, and the other resources are the taxation of multinationals in Europe. There can be no tax on these funds. Do you know what the great danger is today that we are talking about and will have a reflection on the national policy of small and medium-sized States? The great risk is that the climate crisis, all policies to tackle the climate crisis, newly-born productive policies on agricultural policy and all this, instead of trying to get funds from taxation, are moved to the cohesion and CAP funds. I mean, they're shrinking. Small and medium-sized ones are paying again. What we have always called and called is that for us social states and at European level, but also at national level, it means widening any sacrifice of the resources that a state has to find, but also of the European Union itself, otherwise these social policies cannot stand. Otherwise, what do we have? Reduction of taxation, especially in the great wealth, and redundancy for small and medium-sized enterprises. Second element. I have heard it again from Mr Varvitsiotis and particularly from Mr Kumouchakos. In this European government policy, what will happen with immigration policy? I have heard two words from Mr Kumucaku, and I have really raised 'Several and Roman policy', he says, 'for the relaunching of migrants'. I have not heard about a firm and fragile policy in the European Union to implement the rules in the Visegrad countries and a firm and fragile policy to implement the common asylum policy. We did not hear anything like that, but we heard order and security only about immigration policy. A third point - unfortunately, I don't have time - is the Prespecies Agreement. I shall not go into hypocrisy and contradictions at all. In addition, large politicians have expressed their views on these issues. Patriotism is the last refuge of fraudsters. I won't talk about that. But I will say one thing: with the Presidencies' agreement, the SYRIZA government has given another signal to foreign policy. Peace and stability in our neighbourhood and our wider neighbourhood require more than anything active policy, demand interdependence, above all coexistence and coexistence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to know whether the Government of the New Democracy will continue in this policy, without being drawn from great interests with a policy of inertia, as we continued - we had the Macedonian, we had the Cyprus issue and we know how in Cyprus with an active policy we have taken steps forward. We therefore want to know what New Democracy will do on these issues. Investments, investments at all costs! Is there a greater investment for the future - and I always talk about foreign policy - about coexistence, peace and stability that it gives bilateral and tripartite agreements, which builds common paths between states, which build European entities, European courts, so that they can cope with Europe's mights? That's why we didn't hear a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, you are shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u271	The Prime Minister was very pitiful with regard to foreign policy. One final point - if you will excuse me, Madam President, I will take one minute - I would like to raise this matter because I have heard from some people about German compensation. Our government, when we got out of the Memorandum - because we went out of this government with the Memorandum, although we were delayed with contradictions, with all that, we went to elections and got out of the memorandum, with society standing, because getting out of the memorandum without society standing up for us is not left-wing policy and we have said it many times - is the only government after 1995, which gave a private communication, after the file that this House has created, and we have created a break in Germany. We are not against the German people, but they are these trekkers of democracy and in the name of them we want to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u272	My colleague, you've been over time by two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u273	For university asylum, I will speak thoroughly when the law comes here to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes. I would ask you to keep the time because they will not be able to speak, I repeat, and it is a pity. We are talking about justice and we are talking about parity in here and we are letting colleagues not have time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u275	When you start the tolerance, it'll be for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u276	That is what we will never finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u277	You started. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few years, but also in the recent pre-election period, we in the New Democracy have constantly stressed the need to become a new start in the country, to open up a new chapter of hope, a new era of creation for the country, to leave behind the division, extreme political speech, extremism, to free the productive forces from the suffocating and anti-developing corporation of over-taxation and statism, to convince friends and enemies that Greece can become a modern and developed state with confidence, a real stigma in the European and global community, but above all to build a state of sovereignty and dignity, a state in which the words 'carry', 'pretence', 'pretence', a state that respects and supports the citizen, will not be able, prevented from developing, a state that is a state that is 'pril' for all and not for all'. Ladies and gentlemen, today, in my first speech to Parliament during the new parliamentary term, I feel twice as happy on the one hand because, as it turned out on 7 July, the citizens responded affirmatively to our propositions by showing New Democracy as a self-government government of the country and, on the other hand, because in the days after the elections our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government proved every day that this new era really came. It seemed from the first moment. However, it also appeared from the Prime Minister's speech yesterday from this one step that smiled smiles in our previously disappointed society. And I would like to express my conviction that this new era will come boldly for the benefit of every Greek and every Greek and quickly Greece will become a new and better country. All of this, however, can only be done when there is a specific plan, a plan for which the ones who serve it are motivating. This will be the great qualitative difference in this government. We will build Greece with work and not with words and we will make every citizen of this place a shareholder and a partner. Ladies and gentlemen, I am well aware that the real and great account of our own governance will be made at the end of the four-year period and will be made by the Greek people, because, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, we are not tempting with our political opponents, but with the problems and needs of the people. I also know that the problems are many and the obstacles to the work of the new government will be many. In order to change the place, some sectors always undone, but we will do so, because we know that they are a demand of the great majority of our society. So we will be measured with the problems that are decisive and courageous, and in the end will be the time for real and great accountability. I'm not just optimistic about that time. I'm sure of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to a new colleague of mine in Achaia, the new Achaea MP, Alexis Tsipras. It is not very common for a region to send two former Prime Ministers to the National Representation. But it is certainly an opportunity to make an account of the offer of the new Member of the Achaias Parliament Alexis Tsipras to the place and the citizens he represents. Mr Achaias, the four - more - years that you have been Prime Minister, what have they marked for Achaea? In those four years Achaea went back. Patras lost the Research Centre of Western Greece, a centre that was established and involved the creation of a Institute of Food and Drug Technology, a Institute of Medical Research and Technology, a Institute of Industrial Production and Research Systems. Patras lost the great opportunity of the Mediterranean Coast Games. May I remind you what your Minister, Mr. Vasiliadis, said a year ago? He said: "Our goal, beyond the games, is the creation of a modern Beach Sports Center, which will remain a deposit in the city so that local society can be operated, but above all so that we can host major events to make Patras, from the first moment, a port of sports summer tourism". That's what your Minister said, and now there's only sand and some appointments for the Patras Mediterranean Games. I'll put that in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Andreas Katsaniotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Patras lost a great infrastructure project, the EO Patras to Tower. After the tender published in 2014 was cancelled, the work was cut to pieces and reopened. Today the work is incarnated. Not even a shovel of cement has fallen. Only fussy. Finally, Patras lost a university. And why did he lose a university? Because the Western Greece TEI treated it as a poor relative. You took it for a walk to the Greek Open University. At the end you went to the University of Patras. After you cut it in two, slandering both graduates and teachers and staff, you closed it. While, on the contrary, in Crete, TEI did so an autonomous university, Mr. Achaeas. The Gavroglou law in Patras is not corrected, repealed. And it must be abolished as a whole for the TEI of Western Greece and the University of Patras. Any individual abolition creates more problems than it solves. The Gavroglou law in Patras should be abolished as a whole. Mr Colleagues, we expect you to have a constructive opposition, that is to say, to assist the Achaias Members of the Couple in highlighting the region's needs and resolving its problems. This will be a small offer for the delay and regression imposed on our region by the government of which you were led before you were elected MP. Ladies and gentlemen, our vision - and personal - is to prove to the citizens that the policy of ethos and the result is there, that we Greeks can do everything, as long as we work with a goal and a programme, that Greece can become a state with powerful institutions, with merit for all and everywhere and - as Achaios I have one more reason to say -...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u279	In a minute, Madam President. ...that in 2021, when we celebrate the two centuries of the National Palagheesia, we will already live in a country that honors those who sacrificed for it, but also those who come after us and judge us strictly. "We owe to those who came, they pass, they will come, they will pass. Judges will be tried by the unborn, the dead," our national poet said. And I am sure that this government will do everything it takes to judge us positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u280	We also thank the fellow Member and call on Mr Apostleus to step up his SYRIZA, who has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, when we undertook in January 2015 the heavy burden of our country's exit from the crisis, where you led it by the New Democracy and PASOK to your policies, we had to commit ourselves to a memorandum that was hard to negotiate. The Greek people also trusted us in September 2015 that we will take the country out of the crisis and achieve it, while unfolding two important aspects of our policy: the first was the protection and survival of the economically weakest and the second, the international recognition of our country as a key factor of peace in the Balkans and the eastern Mediterranean, thanks to the battles that Alexis Tsipras gave. Our country today is in regularity and can decide for itself for its future. I have listened, ladies and gentlemen, to the brief statement by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, in the rural area and, for a long time, to the respective government responsibility, I have to tell him that he was arrested indisputable. I would like to mention one example, that of growth. Of course, he did not know that we had submitted to the institutions a specific strategic plan for the development of the rural area that had been approved without amendments, with key tools for the ESDP and the ESDP 2014-2020, which would mobilise total resources for the development of EUR 6.5 billion and are being implemented until now at a spectacular rate. At the same time, I would like to remind the Minister and some of the key interventions we have made in order to bring the rural area to the forefront, which perhaps because he is young in the rural area he does not know, and which are: The EUR 9 000 tax-free limit for the average agricultural family, which means, according to the figures of the Ministry of Finance, that 95% of farmers pay no tax on agricultural income. The government, however, has so far not talked about the taxfree demanded by creditors. The minimum national pension of EUR 384, a visionary arrangement for the area, let alone when the premium paid by the farmer today will be in return for the extra pension. The order and directity we have put in the payments of Community aid, as we have received - you all know - 1,3 billion fines and 1,3 billion fines and we have reduced them to nearly half, without the Greek farmer paying a single euro, as I had committed to Parliament at that time. We have introduced the farmer's card to finance agricultural work with a guarantee of Community subsidies and a premier as a basic tool for paying employment in the rural area. You have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, how the Agricultural Bank was sold out and left the rural area without credit, as you forget the "Manoladas" that operated in many areas of Greece. We have limited the immunity of intermediaries to the mandatory payment of sixty days for fresh and vulnerable products. That's a lot of intervention. Does the Minister not know that we lawfully forsake the compulsory designation of origin of milk and meat in animal products, with a view to the transparency of the market and to avoiding the misleadingness of the Greek consumer and the Greekisations? We have legally introduced grazing land, a visionary approach to the issue of sustainable management of these lands, ensuring not only their grassland capacity, but also the eligibilitys needed to ensure that Community aid is unavoidably paid to the rural area. We have ensured, ladies and gentlemen, after many battles in the European Commission, the protection of our quality products and at the same time significant funding for their promotion on the world market. These are the elements which have contributed to the reduction of the deficit to zeroing in the commercial balance of agricultural products, from 2.4 billion we have received. We have brought in a new framework of cooperation with the inter-professional, teams and benefit organisations, which are now a one-way all over the European Union. In order to strengthen them, we have also introduced additional incentives, such as the introduction of tax relief. We have legislated on the inconsistency of Community aid and when we have exceeded the complements of the memorandum, we have also provided emergency aid to farmers and farmers who have seen a reduction in their incomes. We upgraded the structures of the Ministry, paying particular attention to the modern requirements, such as, for example, in the food sector, setting up a relevant Directorate-General, to see how we will support the food sector as much as possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. Our country's agri-food sector is today, ladies and gentlemen, facing two challenges. The first is linked to the pressure placed on the Common Agricultural Policy budget after 2020. We have insisted and achieved significant alliances that you must use to ensure that the budget is not reduced and that there is no immediate and complete external convergence of aid between Member States. We have participated in all the discussions that have taken place both in the Councils of Ministers and in other European fora, and we have created the conditions to accept our positions. The second challenge is to promote agriculture, knowledge, innovation, education, where the relevant background is already in place. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common conscience that the agricultural sector can and must take the lead in the productive reconstruction of the country and in the social cohesion of the countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Comrade, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u283	The Minister in the Programmatic Declarations forgot to link these two reports, which are the key to living in the province.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Comrade, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u285	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we will be here, we will support every positive effort, but we will also defend the rural area. We will monitor you step by step - do not throw him on the rocks, as you have really thrown the country with your previous policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u286	Thank my colleague. I'll call the Citizen's Protection Minister, Mr. Chrysochoid, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the fourth time I am in the Ministry of Citizen Protection, in a very familiar space for me, but situations are always different and are always new, of course, problems very urgent. In addition, the responsibilities of the Ministry include both immigration and penitentiary policy, and there have been several disagreements on this subject. I will reply very briefly, with great respect always in all respects. These activities always have a common feature and the common feature is security, and secondly, where there is security, there is also a question of safeguarding rights. Nowadays, in democratic countries, in the countries of democratic control it is impossible to fight crime and infraction if rights are violated. The two aren't going apart, they're going together. They never go apart, as many people think. They always go together. The Ministry therefore has a strategic choice: home security, city, country. A prerequisite for achieving security is once again: the Ministry is always the Ministry of Civil Rights. But let us be realistic. Greece is not currently suffering from a violation of rights. Security is suffering, so that's where we'll focus. Objectives by area of action are four. Safeguard the security of citizens with constant fight against crime, more effective border control and immigration policy, effective, modern civil protection and modern crisis and disaster management, and finally, new criminal and penal policy, strengthening prisoners' living conditions and respect for human rights. We are taking steps to strengthen the sense of security for citizens, to effectively prevent and deal with crime. Already the "DIA" is now enriched with about five hundred policemen, every day the patrols are getting dense and will be much more dense than right now. They returned to the security departments, i.e. to combat crime more than five hundred policemen, and with an action plan, a neighborhood and a neighborhood, we will erupt criminal gangs that terrorise citizens, entering their homes to rob. Priority is the burglary that scares people. They are recruited until the end of the year a thousand five hundred police officers, special guards, so that by the end of 2019 we now have full patrol and police coverage throughout Greece. Prevention is the best method of preventing infringement. Close cooperation with municipalities is inaugurated for serious work with actors, those who serve volunteering, Immigrant Integration Councils and close cooperation with the OKANA, which can locally develop partnerships and intervene. The security of the neighbourhood must be primarily a matter of civil society. We want live, safe neighborhoods, kids playing in the squares, in the playgrounds, in our neighborhoods and walking unafraidly at night. The order and security sectors shall be reorganised. The first thing we want is for the police to return to their duties. The police and security departments are assigned to become our city security guarantors again. With assistance and donors - private individuals, the equipment and communication infrastructure of the Direct Action are modernised. We must ensure the safety of the lives of the police themselves so that they too can do their job and protect the lives of the citizens. Racism will be treated with a dominant weapon of prevention. For terrorism, however, there is no place in our democracy. The police have excellent human resources, ladies and gentlemen. However, this potential must be reordered, implanted with confidence, faith in its duties, and so we can upgrade their operational capacity. Raising passport for everyone is just one: It is the dignity, its work, its performance and nothing else. We need a new doctrine of internal security. The country's geopolitical position, climate change, the internationalisation of crime, terrorism have changed the texture of crime and the type of risks. Border guarding, for example, which was a military case, is now almost purely police case, where the police, the Port Corps, the Coast Guard supervise, supervise and control the border from the various flows, such as Jihad, such as drugs, weapons, terrorism. Border management today requires coordination of all security bodies with the Armed Forces and, of course, it is a crucial issue to collect information and analyse them. Migration flows will continue for many years, with changes in people's origins. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, immigration and immigration policy are a national issue, particularly when these flows go through the Turkish channel. There is no room here for unknown controversy and absolutely no dilemma in practice. Our actions are aimed at organising the chain of preconditions and steps to dismantle reception centres on the islands, address the new admission phenomenon in Evros and the land borders and create residence structures in the mainland and systematically strengthen migrant integration policies. You will allow me here a parentheses. I went to Moria. I heard and saw. And I want to tell you, too, that the responsible people there, the officials manage a difficult task and need our recognition. I gave it to them publicly, and I give it to them now from the Step of the House. I saw civilian personnel, police, port, Armed Forces, volunteers, local government collaborate, often disagree, but cooperate. That's what's important. We know the living conditions. I saw them. I talked to immigrants. They don't need much to talk here, no public reports that might hurt us. It's all said. We'll talk when we change the circumstances and make sure we change them. We will absorb and literally drain European subsidies, making the money of European citizens transparently available for the good of Greece and Europe. This is our chance, with the immigration policy to strengthen our image to international public opinion, but also the transnational negotiation of the country, by doing our job well, neither by bailing on immigrants, nor by abandoning our border guarding responsibilities and neglecting the living and safety conditions of Greek citizens. We are locusts of Europe. We will claim the recognition and treatment that we deserve. The third objective is effective civil protection and crisis and disaster management. I do not need to bore you with the new data on climate change and the intensity of new risks. We're back, watch out, not operational readiness. We're back to analysis and strategic planning. It needs a completely new model that will emphasise prevention, prognosis, management and ultimately reduce the consequences after a disaster. The new policy component is mobilisation, early information for citizens and strengthening the resilience of society. That is why we are providing for three actions: Firstly, the establishment of a single civil protection authority. Secondly, the creation of a national civil protection system that includes all actors and all functions. And thirdly, a revision of the 'XENOCARATIS' project. I am presenting to Parliament, in order not to bore you, the whole plan of actions that it includes, as I have said, concrete projects to strengthen the operational capacity of our civil protection policy, the Fire Corps and all the institutions of the state that are needed to upgrade civil protection services. [[At this point, the Minister for Protection of Citizens, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On this occasion, I would like to thank the House for its public service with regard to firefighters, Coreper, the Police, the Armed Forces, the EKT, the OTA, the personnel of the ministries for their previous coordinate presence in the Athens earthquake. We acted like a state. The disasters, ladies and gentlemen, are war. We'll win and lose many times. But we will never be without a plan, unprepared, untrained and unconscious. As in crime and immigration, the state cannot alone be protected in civil protection. Either to deal with fire, flooding, or mainly to prevent and restore, we need citizens. We must make this whole case a case of civil society. Strengthening the resilience of society is a stone in response to crises and disasters. The education of citizens, SMEs, the Volunteers' Register, the organisation of exercises and early warning is key to success. "112" is a big deal, it will work, but it is not panacea, nor is it just a technical matter. Its management is a major issue, which is related to the three pillars of civil protection I mentioned earlier. Finally, I come to the last objective, the penitentiary policy. I repeat, I respect and hear the objections and reservations. But we need, at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, to stress that the prisons have been out of order in recent years. Rights have been evacuated from organised crime. Organized crime killers murder inside prisons and outside prison innocent people. Here, too, we should all consider how we should deal with the issue. We have prisons that are ready and not working for bureaucratic reasons. The security of prisoners and officials will be restored. Prison will produce penitentiary work, i.e. prepare for reintegration into society and give opportunities. In this way there will be room for genuine administrative care of respect for the rights and rights of detainees and officials. Yesterday the Prime Minister announced an emblematic measure, the abolition of Korydallos prisons. We are already working together with the Ministry of National Defence to create a off-urban booking store, within Attica, close to a large road axis, for easy access. I am tabling the detailed draft with the actions and projects of the penitentiary policy. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that four words, four sites have emblematically and negatively marked the wounds of the current situation in the fields of responsibility of the Ministry: Molecules for immigration, Eye for civil protection, Excellency for security and legality, Koridal for prisons. We'll change it and change it all, believe me, and as soon as possible, not for reasons of revenge or purpose or opposition or pressure. We will change them because we want better democracy and without a better democracy. Because we want to respect the human rights of immigrants, prisoners. With these reception centres, these prisons are not done, ladies and gentlemen. Mostly because we want Athens, Thessaloniki, our cities open, alive, with the color of their neighbours, their freedom of identity. These Exarches do not do that because we want a state that protects, organizes us, mobilizes us when natural disasters come to strike. With that Eye, it can't be done. We'll change and change fast. This is our chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u289	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u290	Here you go, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Chrysochoidis, you were not here when I was speaking with Mr Kumucasco and we had an exchange of views. I will not comment on your position that immigration is a national issue. For us it is national, it is social, it is humanitarian, it is a matter of health, it is also an issue of integration and it should not be under the protection of the citizen for all these reasons. But I want to say about the penitentiary, because I said some things. Mr Kumoucasos told me that you would answer and that is why I am coming back. I'll accept that you have a sub-ministry. To accept that you'll be more strict, as you imagine, than we are. But why does education have to go to you, the school of the prisoners? Wouldn't the people who are prisoners feel that they need protection from the protection of the citizen, an autonomy? That it's a different thing to educate them from the other part? Or for their health. That really shouldn't have separated us. That's one thing that's very different. Education is very different. Why shouldn't Mrs. Keramea have her? And the directors and the teachers wouldn't feel much better about this? Same for health. The Secretary-General of the JRC yesterday put you a point which you might wish to answer, and which is once again a matter of autonomy, and it is a protection against the protection of citizens, which is the issue of coroners. This area cannot be to you. Because if there's one thing the police are involved, the citizen, the policeman, anyone who knows that there's an independent authority here that decides independently. That is what I would like an answer to. I will not go into all the other things that we might disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr. Chakaloto, we don't find out about America. Immigration policy throughout Europe - but throughout Europe! - It belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, that is to the Ministry what we call today the Ministry of Civilian Protection. Nowhere, in any country there is no Ministry of Migration Policy. All these powers belong to the Ministry of the Interior. And that's where it's really getting a good job. Look, I don't want to talk about the circumstances. Because I have a responsibility towards my country against my country. I don't want to get into this. And I want you to be very careful too. I'm telling you. Let us leave this issue. I'll talk again when we fix the conditions when we change them. And then I'm going to ask you to really make criticisms too. Now we're going to prisons. Look, you forget something, you're overlooking something. Today, 60% with 70% of the prison work has it again by the police. So, what's changing? I don't understand. The second is this: there is a Directorate-General for Criminal and Security Policy. That is to say, she runs with a Secretary-General and she is responsible for the functioning of prisons on issues such as education, health, education, and on a number of issues. So what's it gonna change? One thing will change, Mr Chakaloto, and it will change decisively. A murderer who killed ten people a month ago, two months ago in Korydallus, and Zafiropoulos outside of prisons will not appear again. So this must end and open up the new prisons that exist, because it is a pity that people are stacked. I therefore suggest that you see us, you will judge us, you will evaluate us and you will make the necessary criticisms. Until then you wait and you'll see, or we'll change everything. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, let me publicly thank the citizens of Atalo-Karnania, who have honoured me with their vote and trusted me again. I wish everyone a good term and say that the expectation of all of us is that this government should succeed for the sake of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is here with the confidence of the Greek people to exercise fertile criticism and constructive opposition. I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's speech, and I would like to point out the following: firstly, development is a goal for all of us, and it is the response to the crisis. We agree that the country needs investment, it needs tax decommissioning to increase the available income and the liquidity market. However, I ask: can horizontal tax exemptions create a wave of investment, cause growth and restore the economy to normality? I would remind you that in 2006 the New Democracy had made extensive tax exemptions for businesses, but ultimately no investments in production and exports. On the contrary, growth rates collapsed to an average of 1% and the twin deficits, budgetary and external, became gigantic. As a result, again, the burdens of raising them up the middle and low social strata. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you had, in the election, made your flag the reduction of primary surpluses from 3.5% to 2%. It was ours, too. We remain and insist. However, today you are talking about reducing the primary surpluses from 2021. What's wrong? What's changed? For us - as our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, has said - a reduction in primary surpluses is a prerequisite for development. We propose low primary surpluses and a high public investment programme. We are talking about 1.5% of GDP for investment and tax reduction. As long as the European Union's new investment programme for the years 2021-2027 comes to the negotiating table. A total of 1.3 trillion will be shared from which our country can get and absorb 40 billion to 50 billion. So there is the possibility of development. What does he need? National negotiation. PPC is derailed with the responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL government. We've heard of strategic investors. Gentlemen of the Government, electricity is a public asset. That's why it must belong to the public. We say reorganization and public control, without, of course, burdening consumers. Secondly, we do indeed need a final state, a new philosophy of governance. But we insist: not in the philosophy of party arrangements, not in the plundering state. Public notice, transparency, integrity and term of office for the Secretary-General. The state has and has to keep up with it. That is why the government must guarantee it. Third, education. Education is the pillar for which national and social consensus is required. It is not possible for students and students to go ahead with constant changes, depending on the government's governance. We are waiting for your initiatives for a real national dialogue on education and reopening of the ESS without a fast track without a fast track, such as the previous government. Culture: The deep crisis of recent years has left its tracks in the civilization. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most powerful materials in society. It's education and education, it's a disciple of democracy. Culture is an added value for society. Sport has given our country great moments, great victories. He's made us so proud many times. We must give him the respect that he needs and support with resources, infrastructure and incentives. Our proposal to the relevant Ministries is support for school sport, for the cultivation of fair play and noble play. I am pleased to hear the Minister, Mr Aygeakis, moving in this direction. Fourthly, national issues. You spoke electorally about vetoing in relation to Macedonia's accession to the European Union. In your Programming Statements, we only heard about protection of Macedonian products. What's changed? What happened? We insist, however, that the Prespecies Agreement is detrimental to Greece, which opens roads to new evacuation. Make it clear, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what your position is. As far as Greek-Turkish is concerned, Turkey's provocation continues. Our national line, respect for international law and the law of the sea. As far as the Cyprus issue is concerned, there must be an end to the occupation, to become a reunited state with full sovereignty, full independence and territorial integrity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, no one disagrees with the five flagship projects proposed by the Prime Minister. Indeed, they are projects that can enhance the quality of life of citizens and contribute to growth. But it's all about Attica, except one that's in Thessaloniki. The Prime Minister has refused to refer to the region. Why? Isn't it in your design? Ladies and gentlemen, the region and its people support the country's primary sector. Infrastructural projects and support, such as for my home country, are needed. It is not possible that the Ambush Road, with its citizens paying daily blood tax, has not been completed. We lived the floods in Nafpacia and Mesolonghi. The Ionian Road antimilitary works cannot have been completed. There are responsibilities and they must be attributed. It is the government's duty to proceed directly to these projects, as well as to clarify the new Minister for Infrastructure whether the Greek State will proceed to renegotiate the "GEOFYRAS S.A." Convention on Toll Reduction as well as on analogue tolls. Today the cost of tolls is a barrier and not a lever of development for Western Greece. In conclusion, I would like to say to my colleague Mr. Klonas Gregiades that the surplus was voted in 2016 with Mr.4385 2016 in Articles 184 to 214. There was a roll-call vote. They voted 'yes' for SYRIZA and ANEL parties, 'no' for the Democratic Association, 'no' for the PASOK, which is the Change Movement today. Let me remind you, of course, that the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum is the work of Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement has not been convinced that what the government says means and that what it means will do. And its bilingualism on the issue of the Prespecies and our primary surpluses are concerned. That is why we are voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, my colleague. We invite Mr. Karasmani from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the government's programming declarations is, in fact, a debate on the country's national strategy and future, that is, on two objectives which are all of us, a matter for decisions that must be implemented in the very near future. The strong, as much as strict message sent to us by the people in the last elections requires that we go beyond established perceptions and behaviours and finally leave to the edge the practices of the past, which, in many cases, are responsible for the enormous economic and social dimensions of the crisis that our country has been experiencing over the last ten years. Yesterday, the Prime Minister sent his message of determination, to make all the necessary structural and reform areas needed, to get out of today's deadlocks, to progress firmly and unequivocally to the privatizations, to take advantage of winter public property under transparent and crystal clear procedures, to make more intensive use of funds relating to Community programmes and of a multiplier character for our national economy and, of course, to change and to fully modernise the functioning of the state, on the basis of the new huge potential of the hijacking technology presented to us in noon by the Minister for Digital Governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the pressure of lost time is suffocating, and this means that all this must be done at a rapid pace: to lay the foundations for exiting from the long, miserable and disastrous recession, to enter a path of real dynamic recovery and development of the economy, finally to relax this one-dimensional austerity that has brought our people to the last limits of its endurance. To put an end to the logic or rather to the irrationality of the high surpluses, all they achieve is to perpetuate and exacerbate the recession in a new vicious circle. This invitation, this national bet, is in front of us and we are obliged to win it. The Prime Minister with his Programming Declarations showed the way for us to have tangible, tangible first results in the summer and autumn. Margins for another waste of time, for relaxation and procrastination no longer exist. The times are not waiting for us. We must respond immediately and decisively to our national and patriotic duty, to the fresh and clear people's mandate. Of course, this government has many, great and accumulated problems to face. But what is inevitably important is for the country to be kept up, for the economy and society to be kept, for public life to be changed spectacularly and for public life to return to lost prestige and wounded credibility, building a modern, functional and effective state that supports the titanic effort for dynamic growth. I believe that we all agree that there must also be strong growth, which we are committed to by an oral Prime Minister. Without a serious countryside, there can be no living urban centres, there can be no social cohesion and social peace. In the four-and-a-half years of the reappearing government, we have seen the lands cultivated falling, the production declined, the agricultural income declined, our rural population shrinking, the barbaric overtaxation for the first time even of subsidies from the first euro to eliminate even the possibility of survival. Programmes that we delivered to them ready for immediate implementation either left them to be lost, together with the guaranteed Community millions of their budget, or abandoned them untreatedly to bathe in the Brussels funds. They succumbed to a simple management, which most of the time, instead of solving the problems, increased them. They have never claimed at European level an important measure for the country. They did not bring up a single EU euro while they let the great opportunity be lost with the mid-term review of the CAP in 2017. It is therefore obvious that our immediate priorities will be the dynamic economic and social support of the primary sector, agriculture, processing, marketing. Our priorities will also be support to regain the once mighty sector of our livestock, left to complete abandonment and collapse, to the mercy of speculators, such as the scourge of uncontrolled illegal imports and the Hellenisation of part of milk and milk products. Our farmers are in a bad financial situation. Their days are black, nightmareous. They have seen daily milk prices falling at low levels in recent years. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, a leading position in our priorities must be and will have to face up to the tragic consequences of climate change, which this year alone, in just a quarter, has already destroyed production in hundreds of Macedonian and Thessaly villages because of inadequate and inefficient anti-hail protection. We cannot tell farmers to make good production, good products, but these products should be ensured by a strong insurance system. We must strengthen the ELGA and we must do so also with budgetary funds, but also with resources from Community programmes. Of course, there should be area support for the lost income from the embargo, for which the producers are not responsible, but the responsibility lies exclusively with the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a small reference to the works of my prefecture, the Edessa-Jannitsa-Halkidona road network, for which the Prime Minister recognised the great injustice that was theft of 120 million and described it as a project of national priority, but also the Almopeaus dam, a project of significant development for Pella and the whole of central Macedonia, with guaranteed funds. We will not do one millimeter back in claiming and in the auctioning of this great work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the road, the one-way road, to detached Greece from the grasses of the prolonged economic and social crisis, the constant poverty. This policy alone will be a return to normality. And this course we are obliged and determined to follow until the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. I've been calling Mr. Katasafado for six minutes in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, before I begin, to say a great thank you to my tens of thousands of fellow citizens from Piraeus, the islands of the Argosaronikos, Kytheras and Antikythera, who honoured me with their confidence, once again taking me to the Greek Parliament in such a critical parliamentary period. A parliamentary term which can be a stage for the new authority in need of the place and which Greek citizens also wanted in the recent elections. A new parliamentary term, which seems to be beginning with the most prosperous omens, since the Prime Minister of the country implements his commitment one to the Greek people. And it has nothing to do with the immediate establishment of all the state and government structures in such a short time as it happened a week ago, but it has to do with the pleasant surprise that we had yesterday in the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations, where not only tabled a clear timetable for the implementation of one of these pre-election commitments tabled by the New Democracy to the Greek people. This is how Kyriakos Mitsotakis perceives the measure and the maturity with which the Greek society must deal, which has paid so much in the past nine years. Ladies and gentlemen, our strategic option to reduce taxes is unnegotiable. We must, however, see that the two new tax bills, which will be submitted very soon, are not just collective in nature, but also have a development target. The bill, which will be submitted, does not talk about the actual hundred and twenty instalments to be paid to businesses, it does not talk about reducing rates to natural persons and businesses, it does not talk about reducing VAT to focus, reducing taxation, reducing dividends, phasing-out of tax, the trade fee and the solidarity levy, the gradual reduction in contributions to pensions from 20% to 15%, but it also speaks of something which, if I may stand too much, is talking about reducing HPAI by 22%, thereby giving again the value of the property that each Greek citizen has. The real estate market, ladies and gentlemen, can evolve into a lever of growth for the economy through inhibition of VAT on building for three years, but also to a tax deduction of 40% of the expenditure on energy upgrading in buildings. This, ladies and gentlemen, is for the many and not the few, so that we can re-engine the building machine in front and work out dozens of professions and professions that are followed by middle-class people. Strong and sustainable development presupposes an attractive environment for entrepreneurial and investment activity, which, unfortunately, has not existed to date, and this government is committed to implementing directly, simplifying licensing procedures. The blockage of large-scale investments such as the Greek and Afantou of Rhodes, the declaration as archaeological site without sufficient documentation of almost all Piraeus, are pathogenesies and ideals that we leave behind. At the top of our priorities, of course, there is also a direct response to existing risks, such as the possible collapse of PPC, a problem which you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA have created. And at some point, instead of swinging the finger, you have to apologize for how it is possible to receive PPC in 2015 with net profits of 100m euros and deliver it four and a half years after damages of 1 billion euros. You received a PPC, the value of which was up to EUR 2.5 billion and you deliver it to a value which does not exceed EUR 300 million. The outgoing government, however, ladies and gentlemen, in trying to erroneous political developments and indifferent to the country, has invested in creating a dissolutionary situation through the law it has brought to the vote on the simple analogue. However, our country, ladies and gentlemen, something that the Greek people have shown very recently, what it needs is a proportionate and representative system which, at the same time, guarantees the emergence of strong and sustainable governments, and that is why we are moving towards a direct change in the electoral law. We have to deal directly - and I am pleased that the Ministry of the Interior is doing so - with the problem of the functioning and governance of the municipalities. SYRIZA has no powers in local government and has the ability to win municipalities and regions, has chosen to dismantle self-government by applying simple proportionally. The Government undertakes to cancel these manipulations, to enable municipalities to offer services to citizens, of course, along with a large institutional reform, which will guarantee the economic and administrative autonomy necessary for the first and second degrees of local government. Are you in favour or against, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, so that at last Greeks will have the right to vote abroad, that they can vote from their country of residence, which is something only to us and Albania is not the case? I would like an answer from the next speaker of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, because there is a very, very long debate on class ideas and ideologies, is it or is it not, are you with many or are we with the few, when the Prime Minister of the country announced the recruitment of two thousand nurses? You're with the many. Are we with the many or the few when the Prime Minister of the country announced the recruitment of a thousand five hundred policemen, so that each Greek citizen can finally experience the privilege of security in his home and in his neighborhood? Are we in favour of many or few, when one of the four emblematic projects on the Attica basin, the two are in the second Piraeus and it has to do with Drapetsonas and the Korydalos Prisons, when the new model schools, which we want to be able to give the impetus and development that is necessary in education, start with the Peristeri? You know what? We're tired in this Chamber of saying that you're talking to the many and we're talking to the few. We are talking about all Greeks. That is the obligation of the next government. The next government's obligation is to unite the Greek people, to give vision, to give perspective, to enable young people not to leave their homeland and to be here. And we are here not to betray the hopes and expectations of this Greek people, with a program, with realism, with wisdom, hard work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u300	We too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to everyone on your election. I will begin by thanking my compatriots in Chania, Crete as a whole, in Sfakia - one more - because we also took a percentage from January of 1915, because we kept Crete with SYRIZA as a great gala province, which will stand up against neoliberal measures which we both heard about here in these two days. The result was a great personal justice, the fifteen thousand four hundred crosses I took, against all the attack on the murder of a character, targeting and mud that I accepted from the vast majority of the media in the previous period and I would say, despite the descent of Mrs Bakoyannis, of the heavy artillery in Chania, in relation to the electoral success of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u302	But I took you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u303	You've taken me, of course. Some planes came from America, though, didn't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u304	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u305	Some planes came from America, though, which I couldn't bring and Marcoyanakis didn't come down, so we could talk about it all. I'm on my way to the point. I've been waiting since yesterday to see a statement from Mr. Stournara. You all remember, when we voted on the tax relief measures, what he said: "The risk of fiscal derailment of the country" in two successive communications, one of the Bank of Greece and one of its own. From yesterday's "fruit and hearing", nothing in the measures you announced on the reduction of ENPIA etc., etc. So what other proof do we want to give you a healthy economy with surpluses, nothing to do with burnt land received by all governments since '74 and of course see no financial derailment by Mr Stournaras with the measures of the middle-class tax relief you announced yesterday? I will have a great wonder to see what it will say about 2020, because for 2020 - to be clean and to understand the world that is listening to us - if you don't cut off from somewhere else a sum that is playing between 1.8 and 2.2 billion, very simply these reductions will not be made. I say again: If you don't cut off somewhere else, you don't get the bill and we want to see exactly what you're going to cut off. I'm moving on to the next one. You win. You have entered into a social alliance with the middle layers with a development account. At the same time, you dressed this with a extreme right-wing sanctuary, familiarizing the whole story with the new Macedonian struggle. This has already been constrained. It's a co-ordination! Your officials in responsible positions recognize that the agreement is good, opens up lines of cooperation with the country. You use Mr. Mavrotas, who is one of those who voted for the deal, the ones that some of you have petted them were also a traitor with us. That's silhouetted. You have now threw the Macedonian anodotus into battle to preserve the names of Macedonian products, which are secured and on the basis of the agreement. Apart from the patriotic carpeting you did with it, you also did a ballot with the Eye. The answer here is a word and nothing else: Tsubalas. The one you were asking for his head on a table, you appointed the political chief of services to be responsible for these disasters. You appointed the one you couldn't sleep at night if you felt that he would have the responsibility of managing other natural disasters. Let's go to the most basics. I'll start with the health field. I want a lot to say. I'm going to ask a few questions. I'm glad Mr. Kikilis can hear me. And you made a mess in the media that I wasn't on delivery. We'd agreed to be the Andreas Blonde who he was. I was in Crete. But I went to inform him last Tuesday. That, of course, didn't see the light of publicity. Well, the questions are specifically: First, Minister, we have received a expenditure ceiling of EUR 1,488,000. We've reached it a 1.860,000,000 euros. The question is: In the next three years, as described in the 2018-2022 medium-term, will you increase it at least EUR 100,000 000 per year, as we have described in the medium-term on the basis of GDP growth? I am referring to 2%, what we say, not 4%, 5%, 6%, these summer night dreams that you say you will come to cover taxes. That is the first question. Secondly, on the subject of staff, I gave you the details. At the moment, we have added to the system since 2015, two thousand three hundred seventy permanent doctors, three thousand three hundred supplementary doctors from five hundred. We have added four thousand two hundred thirty three as other permanent staff, eight hundred ninety-eight out of the ASEP competition and nine thousand contractors. I'll talk about them. We have also added four more thousand, persecuting contractors. The questions are in particular: First, what you announced is what I said to you: a thousand doctors who were proclaimed and a thousand five hundred for whom there is a cabinet act. That's the two and a half thousand you said. No one else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. Questions are specific: The four thousand OAED what are you going to do to them? Are you going to renew the contract or are they going to leave? Will the other ancillary staff continue to renew and will you complete the competition that we have in progress for the 3K to take permanent posts of a thousand percent? Fourth question: The seven and a half thousand, two and a half thousand each year, a thousand doctors and a thousand five hundred staff we have announced together with Marilissa Xenoyannakopoulou, with his returning one to one, will you take them over the next few years? Don't sell us seaweed for silk ribbons, what we announced we'll get two thousand nurses and put some of the ones that end secondary schools in nursing to do education. The seven and a half thousand permanents we planned will you get them? I hope you get the two and a half thousand. The same question I ask the Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos. The three thousand trillions of the "Help to Home" program will you get them? Will you proceed to a competition? There are many such questions I wanted to say, but I will stop at two - three others. I'm afraid I've exceeded time. As we speak of the Ministry of Interior, I would like to say something about Mr Theodorikos. Because the state you're building has nothing to do with the modern state. The Prime Minister's collecting everything. This is a revival of the clientele and centrally controlled state and not modern European public administration. The question is addressed to you, Mr Kikilia: Will Henry Dunan come back to the public? We agreed to give 100,000,000 euros - Mr. Juliarakis had found them - and 10,000,000 euros, for the Onassis Foundation to be reinstated as a clinic at the Onassis Heart Center in public compacts. Will you do it? Or will it remain a private clinic of Piraeus Bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u306	Finish, Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u307	I would like to ask one last question: will you maintain the new ECOFO health benefit regulation as we have built it, cutting too many demoles and increasing the limit annually? [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] Why are you doing this, Mr. Kedicoglou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u308	Because you've been over eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u309	Am I the only one who's over time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u310	You're just a congressman now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u311	Yes, Mr. Kedicoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, please. You must finish, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u313	I'm closing up with one last word. I thank the Bureau and the Ministers for their tolerance. I hope they'll answer me. We'll be here. We're not forgetting anything. Because some birds told me that next week the first waivers of immunity that will come concern me - a lawsuit by Mr Stournara and Mr. Pool from CEDEFOP - I want to say that I am here and I am waiting for them. And we'll check all the cases we've sent to justice so they won't cover themselves up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep your time. It is up to colleagues to respect this. It is not a good thing that the Bureau is constantly making remarks. Please, because I want to keep the Rules of Procedure the way it is. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skakakis for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech in the Programmatic Declarations by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, I would like to devote it to the anonymous taxpayer, because it has been the one who has kept the Greek state from standing up in recent years, a state that had discredited his expectations and carried him a disproportionate burden in relation to what he has offered him. The general economic policy direction was presented yesterday by the Prime Minister and will be analysed to the full extent by the Minister of Finance in his own speech. I shall therefore only develop what concerns budgetary policy here. I am, however, beginning with a more general remark which is key to achieving the objectives of the budget and the years to come. Greece, which we received from the SYRIZA government, has the lowest investments and the highest unemployment in Europe. The country, for many years, has been disinvesting, i.e. investing less than the depreciating capital, and prosecuting the human potential it has externally. Our real production capacity is shrinking every year. The paradox is that this very weakness is at the same time a great opportunity for the country. This is an opportunity, the existence of which I fear that the previous government did not even notice, hence the investments in 2018 were the lowest in the last 20 years. Our plan is to cover this productive divide, the investment gap and by raising investment close to the European average within the next four years to significantly increase the rate of growth and trigger a virtuous economic cycle, the backwards from the vicious cycle of the crisis that we have experienced. We are aiming at a cycle of investment, new jobs, increased public revenues aimed at new tax reductions, which will in turn trigger new investments again from the outset. The triggering of this virtuous circle is the great wager of economic policy. By winning it - I believe - we can change the course of both the Greek economy and the Greek society. A pillar of our effort is to respect the budgetary objectives that are so often the case. To this end, our programme aims to create a financial area, not only in the revenue side, but also in the expenditure side. That's more of a concern to me. Respect for the objectives and the creation of a financial area is obviously the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, however, it is also a central collective objective and commitment of the entire government. To this end, first of all, we will eliminate the plastic expenditure ceilings which lead to systematic budget implementation and the extremely harmful to the development of surpluses. Only in 2018, in the regular budget, we had a sub-executed approach to the EUR 1 000 000, which has made a decisive contribution to the lowest rate - than we should - to the development of this year. This effort will be immediately launched with all the Ministries to ensure and with the necessary security margin that the 2019 financial objective is achieved. At the same time, we will use extensively two important tools: the review of expenditure, the so-called'sending reviews' and the performance budget, the performance budget, and, of course, the reform of the audit procedures. These instruments will be used in the general government as a whole to improve both the efficiency of public spending and the creation of additional financial space necessary to reduce the tax burden. Our plan is based on an ambitious effort to save, which will be carried out under the limitations of our pre-election commitments, and which will come, among other things, from the expenditure surveys that will be launched directly at all ministries, the improvement of the results of the EKOs, e-government, the merger of buildings, the targeted recruitments focused on health, education and safety and the abolition of inefficient or unnecessary structures that the previous government had, such as the multitude of general secretariats. A prerequisite for all this to be achieved is the rapid promotion of accounting reform so that the State as a whole can finally know in time and with absolute accuracy not only what it spends and where it spends it, but also what property it has and what obligations it undertakes. Let us see what can be achieved using these tools. The possibilities are specific and have nothing to do with any publications that I read out of reality today. By finding the real ceilings for budget expenditure, we are aiming to eliminate the under-utilisation both in this year's and in the next budget. By reviewing expenditure across the state the potential is considerable, but it takes time and great effort. Finally, with the performance budget, the possibilities are much greater, but structural changes are needed before, concerning the whole of government policy, and we are talking about a long-term horizon. I am, however, optimistic because these reforms that will progress quickly and decisively change at a fundamental level the way in which the Greek state operates and operates in terms of the effectiveness and use of expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the anonymous taxpayer I spoke about at first is not anonymous. He's the man next door. He's the socially weak man who gives out of his posture. He's the hard worker who comes home late at night, working on a whole day. It is above all our children and grandchildren who start their lives under the burden of an unbearable debt. Their money is spent and we must do so with respect, efficiency and responsibility. We have to measure properly, because without a proper measure, no policy is going to work. We must always think about man, because man is the measure of every policy. And we must see far away, because power, every power, is temporary, but its consequences in people's lives hold generations whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u316	We too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before I invite Mr Delis from the Communist Party of Greece to Step forward, I call for the consent of the House so that between two colleagues a minister can intervene in order to free themselves and to be able to go to their Ministries, because they are waiting for a long time. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u317	The House has agreed. Mr. Delis will come to Step, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u318	Another governmental rotation, yet another change of dogma on the same path of a policy that has been struggling for years, among other things, with a strong link between education and the market, namely the capitalist jungle. Here is what is the main reason for ever increasing class barriers by turning the social good of education into an expensive commodity and with a content that is increasingly dry, degraded for the children of popular families. So the New Democracy comes to education too to step on the anti-grass frame, prepared by the SYRIZA government. With a argument directly from the pounds of imperialist organisations, such as the European Union and the OECD, on the one hand, demonises university asylum and on the other hand promotes positive concepts - keys such as: autonomy of school, evaluation, entrepreneurship, equal opportunities, issues that - as we say so - the SYRIZA Government has fought hard and has gone a long way as a government. Now the New Democracy is trying to force all this quickly - quickly as self-evidently. So let us look at all these self-evident things from the point of view of the people's families. In other words, let us talk about the self-evident people's needs in education. For many reasons of equal opportunities in education by the New Democracy, but also for the right of the people to education and the responsibility of the state in providing it to all. No specific commitment to state funding, to create infrastructure, to special treatment, to kindergarten, except for recruitment of four and a half thousand already announced and a drop in the ocean in front of the approximately thirty thousand alternates recruited every year. Eventually, behind the equal opportunities front, hard reality cannot be hidden for the vast majority of children of the people's families who do not receive full education. And on top, when the difficulties and failures of class inequalities come, the responsibilities of all of them are thrown to their own students and families, who, while being given the opportunity, did not notice and took it away. Here's the "caramella" of the evaluation. And who advertise it, please, as the medicine to upgrade education? These, from SYRIZA to New Democracy, who have condemned years of education in miserable sub-financing. Except that the evaluation he has promoted and SYRIZA is not the medicine, but is the medicine for the educational needs of the people's families, being a tool for implementing the anti-educational policy intended to load the responsibility of this policy on teachers and the burden on parents. As for the so-called autonomy of the school, which the New Democracy has advertised, like SYRIZA, of course over the past few years, and is still continuing to support, with the new - allegedly - curriculum programmes, which give the teacher a much greater freedom to enrich and adapt teaching to the needs of the students, but well today what is happening? Is there a teacher who doesn't take into account the individual, the special features of the class he teaches? Your point is not that, because when you talk about the release of the school from the suffocating hug of the Ministry, on the one hand you want each school to make it out of itself, looking for resources to parents and sponsors who increasingly surround it, since state funding is lesser, and on the other hand, on the other hand, seek the content of each school to be differentiated, blowing up the right of all children to take the same education to learn others here and there, depending always on the financial potential of each school and every region. But the lesson in entrepreneurship is always present, not because of course everyone will be entrepreneurs, but to prepare themselves as future workers to think first of all about their own employers. And yet here the self-evident thing, as we speak of the people, is a modern public and free school, a single, 12-year-old for all children regardless of the profession they choose later. The self-evident thing is a school that the state will have the sole responsibility in its operation so that all children can be shaped and disciplined across, a school that no child will have to stop before his eighteen years to go to work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to close, Madam President, and ask for a little tolerance to speak about university asylum, this fetish of the New Democracy propaganda and the doctrine of 'law and order', a system that is becoming more and more reactionary. A contribution - to not forget them - to the attempted abolition of asylum has been made by SYRIZA with the well-known finding of Fridaypoulou, which has thrown enough water into the mill of reactionary propaganda by interfering with student labour struggles with various incidents of crime, while SYRIZA MPs are also demanding the abolition of asylum. The question, however, remains: Who prevents crime and drug trafficking in central Athens, Thessaloniki and other neighbourhoods and regions where there are neither asylum? Others, then, are your poorness for academic asylum. At a university - a public limited company, where its business is generalised, it does not separate either the asylum or the rights of students and workers. At a university - business only fits the expensive goods of the educational market, such as postgraduate, training, foreign-language undergraduate. At such a university, there is only one place for large businesses to go in to organize and oversee the greater tie of schools to the objectives of their profitability.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Comrade, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u320	At such a university - I close, Madam President - only the European Union and NATO go in to promote their rotten values and imperialist wars.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u322	How can these asylum and popular rights be tolerated? All of these - large businesses and urban parties - send thousands of young people to live their myth working season without hours and days to make the winter of unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u324	All of these when they are young and demand permanent and stable work respond to the so-called equal opportunities. For all this, however, the Labour People's Movement will fight and the JRC will be there by its side to strengthen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u325	There's no clock?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u326	It's got a watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u327	Put the watch on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u328	I put the clock on it, but I also think colleagues should respect the rest of the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u329	Yeah, but the clock's ringing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u330	If the Bureau is going to be so strict from day one, I can be so strict. But I don't want it. It's the first day. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Please! The time you take above you know that is the time taken by your colleagues. Mr. Kedicoglou has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Madam President. I should also like to thank my compatriots for renewing their strong trust and wishing everyone a good job. Ladies and gentlemen, the great change, the great political change that the Greeks voted overwhelmingly by giving the self-reliance to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, has already begun to take place. The sign is given by the Prime Minister himself and he confirmed it very clearly in his speech yesterday. Describing his government's policy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis spoke of his policy of measure, logic and outcome. He pledged for a government of all Greeks without blinkers and stressed that Greece would go ahead with unity, schedule and hard work. What kind of believer can disagree? At the same time, the Prime Minister gave his government's priorities in key policy areas, as well as in a comprehensive manner. Accelerating to point out that health priority is the restoration of the smooth functioning of public structures first and foremost by direct support to medical and nursing staff. In education it is important for it once again to function as a social elevator, allowing every Greek bird to reach where he can and will, as long as he tries and commits himself. School models throughout the country I am sure that they will prove to be a decisive structural change. I do not have to say a word about the abolition of asylum. The vast majority of the Greeks welcome. The restoration of the sense of security, not only in universities, but in every neighbourhood, in every corner of Greece, to every citizen, is of paramount importance. Without a sense of security, the citizen cannot exercise any other rights in full. Security is the foundation for all freedoms. To achieve all this, of course, in education, health, safety and other sectors of the government's steam engine project is the economy. The Greek economy can and must grow rapidly and there is where Kyriakos Mitsotakis showed a great difference from his predecessor. Knowing the economy well, the Prime Minister follows a recipe that is simple, but also the only logic. We reduce taxes, press red tape to increase production and attract investment, strengthen growth and create jobs. However, the great surprise Mr Mitsotakis gave us all was that he proved to be the first Prime Minister to do more after-election than he promised in an election. The tax reliefs come earlier and wider, strengthening the beneficial shock in the Greek economy. How different from his predecessor who promised everything and didn't do anything? Of course, the biggest difference between the former and the current Prime Minister was demonstrated in yesterday's speech by the President of SYRIZA. Following the unified speech of Mr.Mitsotakis, Mr. Tsipras' acute dissatisfaction spokesman was hit even worse. He obviously didn't understand the cellar message yet. Here, of course, he did not understand what happened with PPC, because when he says that the state monopoly in energy reached the edge of the catastrophe because of the under-representation of hydroelectric power plants, what can one say? When you hear that for PPC's bankruptcy, it's the anomalism, what do you say? We don't have to judge him anymore. The people judged him. We move on to the spirit of Mr Mitsotakis to join the citizens for Greece of equal opportunities. Equal opportunities for all, equal opportunities everywhere. In closing, I want to ask for equal opportunities for my place. It is my duty because the Gospels have honored me for once in the first place, and it is all they ask me to do. In order for Evia to develop equally, it needs a modern road network, as in the rest of Greece. You may not know it, but we pay more expensive fares to trucks - all Evia business, all professionals - because of the poor situation of roads. It is the definition of unfair competition against us. At the expense of Evia, a huge injustice had occurred by the Sineite Government, with the exception of the trans-European networks, which had the effect of not financing road projects with Community funds. We achieved the lifting of this injustice with the Samara Government in 2013 and finally the accession of Evia to Europe in terms of road projects. The first major project in Evia, the bypass of Chalkida, was ready to be auctioned in February 2015. But the SYRIZA government invented, the Tsipras government and ruled it from the NRP. It was the second great injustice against Evia. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is well aware of the problem, for he is the first party leader to cross the ends of Evia by car and found in particular the opportunities for development that are lost. I believe that the most important reason why Evia became blue again after thirty years. We need the main road axis of Evia to develop on an equal footing. It takes the road of Chalkida - Kymi to finally make use of the port of Kymi for the benefit of the islands of the northern Aegean. In Evia they say: "Bake us the way and we will find our way". Now that the road to Greece of the future opens, the road to the development of Evia will also be opened. With Mr Mitsotakis, I am sure we will succeed and of course I am voting in favour of the government's Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, and for your time. I call on the Interior Minister, Mr. Theodorikos, to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u333	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to speak for the first time from this Step to the members of the National Representation. On the basis of the overall directions of the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the priorities of the new integrated Ministry of Interior in the two main areas of his action are the following: The first priority is the full support of local government of the municipalities and regions of the country to be solid pillars of growth, hosting investment, strengthening employment and thereby strengthening social cohesion and serving citizens with transparency and efficiency. We support the municipalities and regions to have their own integrated development plan and to be able to implement it. And I would like to make it quite clear that there are no 'blue', 'green','red' or any other colour mayors for the whole of the cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the local government. They are all mayors who have been elected by the people and must deal with the problems of Greek society. And problems have no color. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LABROYLIS, takes over the presidential seat.]] However, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, in this area you have literally left us two "time bombs": One has to do with the dissolution situation in which self-government is likely to come from your insistence to vote and apply the simple analogue. In the area of self-government two thirds of the municipalities and in seven regions of the country, elected mayors and elected districtlors do not have a majority in the municipal council and management bodies, so that they cannot govern and cannot take decisions. In a few days' time, we have been actively dealing with this problem by legislative intervention, which offers a solution - to what problems we can solve - by facilitating the co-operation and co-operation of resignation and by giving the main administrative bodies of the municipalities and the region the majority in the mayor's and district. The second ‘time bomb’ relates to Attica and not only. We all need to realise that here we are in danger of drowning in garbage literally, as both the SYRIZA government and the regional administration under Mrs Durou have done absolutely nothing to deal with the problem for almost five years. No study has been carried out, no placement has been made, no programming has been cancelled and the problem has been really dangerous. Official opinion of the Attica High Level Association confirms that the margins in the Gender Cytos have been exhausted and its life span is estimated to be until the end of this year. This is literally a crime that threatens the health of the citizens of the Attica basin and the whole of the national economy. The government has been informed of the size of the problem by the elected Regional Director George Patolis, and already after a meeting with the Prime Minister, all the solutions required in the immediate, medium and long term planning are considered to be effective. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve self-government in its work and to achieve its self-reliance, a more comprehensive legislative intervention is absolutely necessary, in addition to this direct intervention that I have spoken about before, in order to address the luxurious pluralism, by creating a more simple and functional landscape for this institution, putting an end to the confusion that exists about the powers of the two levels of selfgovernment, both between them and the two levels of selfgovernment and the state. The aim is to clarify the picture fully. We are abolishing the simple analogues to municipal and regional elections for the election of the mayor and the district mayor. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're transferring ENPIA to self-government within this four-year period. Priority is given to the Ministry in terms of the electoral law on the parliamentary elections: the Prime Minister spoke yesterday and the commitment is entirely true that a new electoral law will be passed by this House in the first part of its term. Our aim is to achieve the greatest possible convergence and consensus between the political forces of the country. Election law will be proportionate, but it will also be possible to form a government in order to ensure political stability. In any case, the right of the Greeks abroad to vote for the Greek Parliament from the country in which they are located is finally established. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Priority third with regard to public administration. Our aim is a modern rule of law, effective, at the service of citizens. The Prime Minister yesterday presented the specific commitments for the state's decommissioning, in a number of specific institutional interventions. Our further commitments are: The planning of the recruitments to the State with four years of plan and annual implementation, taking into account the needs and, of course, the possibilities of the Greek state through an overall planning. Modern forms of human resources management, setting specific targets per service and industry with measurable results, so that it can make a meaningful assessment of both the infrastructures of the Greek public and the employees. Development of the skills, knowledge and experience of public sector workers and the establishment of a new, objective system for selecting public administration officials. And, of course, our commitment is to strengthen transparency in the functioning of the public service and to simplify disciplinary law. All these are commitments, all these are concrete objectives and we will now be judged in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the country to come out of the crisis, I think that we all have to be clear about what situation we are in, but also what citizens think about this situation. The people's vote in the elections of 26 May and 7 July was not concise. In the ten, difficult, years of crisis, there have been very significant changes in the perceptions of public opinion, which are fundamental and fundamental to the consciousness formed by the Greeks. The first change is that the vast majority of Greeks believe that growth and jobs can come only from the private sector of the economy and from support for healthy entrepreneurship and not from the state. What was forty and forty years ago was minority, at the moment represents the vast majority of Greeks. The second concept is that there can be no freedom and there can be no quality of life for citizens without security, without a strong inspiring sense of security and without an effective and functioning state. The third, which came after all the difficulties that we have had and the adventures, is that it has been fully inspired in Greece, by the vast majority of the Greeks, the need for our participation in the European Union with our own credible voice and presence. And the fourth conception that prevails now is that citizens realize and require the political world to put an end to false, big words, to speak the language of truth, to do much more and to say less so that citizens can show respect for the public interest and interest in politics again. These important changes marked the election result, which is why it was very normal to defeat the strategy of populism, demagogy, the artificial division of the Greeks, the obsolete anti-right rhetoric and the extremely simple class matching that characterises all the political rhetoric of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, in the four years that the poor have passed in this country have become poorer, the low pensioners have lost the NSA, the private sector workers have lost their wages, incomes and the conditions of their work, while the middle class has suffered overwhelming damage to overtaxation. And if I may, yesterday's speech of the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, shows that SYRIZA does not change strategy. While it has an absolute responsibility for what I have said, yesterday Mr Tsipras did not have a good word to say about the historical interventions announced by the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which express the demands of life and the dreams of the generations of local societies in the second region of Piraeus and in western Attica. The demands for life were the removal and the fall, as the Prime Minister said earlier, of the Korydalus prisons. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Claims and dreams of life, which because we must speak the language of truth, no previous government in the years of postpopulation has been able to do. And the same applies to the two hundred four acres in the area of Keratini and Drapetsona that will become a metropolitan park. The same applies even stronger to the institution of the model schools that are coming back and which, as the Prime Minister said, relates first of all to all the western districts and especially to Peristeri. Ladies and gentlemen, the main weapon of the current Prime Minister, these years, I believe, was his credibility. The credibility that was reflected in the truth agreement he proposed to the Greeks and on the basis of which he took the strong order of 7 July. With this, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has a powerful moral and political advantage over Civic Opposition. This credibility you have already been trying to hit and caught the Skopje issue so badly since yesterday. The New Democracy's attitude to the issue of Skopje was and is crystallised. The Prime Minister's position yesterday is entirely consistent with what he said before the elections and his messages are clear to everyone. So it's funny that SYRIZA attempts to create impressions because some executive expressed another view. What you obviously do not understand is that the New Democracy is not a monolithic party. There can be different opinions, but the line of the line is one: it is the national line. It is the one that has been emphatically defended by New Democracy all this time and continues to believe and testify by the Prime Minister. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So in these elections of 7 July the strategy of responsibility, the strategy of hope based on the truth, the coherent plan, the right word, the unity of the Greeks, the new patriotism, the strategy that has consistently been followed over the years by the Prime Minister, a strategy that combines the absolute unity, the bold renewal and the social and political enlargement of the New Democracy. And so the party returned to the high elections before the crisis broke out. This data underlines that the dividing line in the country today remains between populism, demagogy on the one hand and responsibility, the progressive and coherent development plan and the unity of the Greeks on the other. Retrospective today is the populism represented by Civic Opposition and has led to what we have lived and we have no right to forget. The really progressive is the political proposal of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis for a creative Greece, a strong country that gives opportunities for progress to all citizens. In this dividing line everyone will be invited to place themselves in the next few years, this policy will be fully consistent and judged on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u334	Mr Stavros Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, there is a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u336	In fact, it is the colleague who speaks now, and then the Minister will follow. There was one colleague who asked for one year's credit from another parliamentary group. Should we call the fourth, fifth in a row?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, since this morning, we have said that after Minister of State, the speaker must be from the opposition. Please be observed. We've been doing this since the morning Mr. Kaklamanis was presided over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u338	I have no objections. We should then invite Mrs Papanatsiu to the Step. Come on, Mrs. Papanaceu. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting the new parliamentary term and we hope it will be productive in all respects. Our own views and political directions have been tabled by both our work as government and programme commitments during the pre-election period. Unfortunately, however, it was a monologue, because the New Democracy has chosen to remain silent and not to hold a programming debate. But the time has come to talk about programming and to confront opinions and directions for the future. We therefore welcome you to the political dialogue. The truth is that you have started unexpectedly with immediate implementation of your commitments, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of the a.d.84 we were informed that top and first-line structures such as the ILO, the public property, were subjected to new addresses within new Secretary-General. Respectively, the independent Economic Crime Investigation Directorate, established by a law of 2018, was also demolished and is responsible for carrying out checks specifically on cases for which there is a D.A.'s order under the Prosecutor of Economic Crime. This service has been undermined from the outset. You should answer, ladies and gentlemen of the government, both to the citizens and to the officials, what your thinking was. As far as taxation is concerned, I would remind you of a series of targeted interventions which you then swept through and these days we hear you say that there has been no disaster that you have been shouting for four and a half years. We have created the institutional framework in short-term leases, we have established the successful programme of voluntary disclosure of incomes, and of course we have established the law - a modulation for the operation and expansion of electronic transactions. With this structural reform, the 2017 tax revenues increased by 780 million. These were measures with a broadening of the tax base, which have ensured the progress of the economy that you receive today, ladies and gentlemen. You have spoken about reductions, but at the same time you have not answered what the broadening of the tax base means for you. You mean it like the International Monetary Fund? Are you going to reduce the tax-free or do you have another plan? Some events, as you can see, are undeniable and have been recorded. We reduced the tax on legal persons from 29% to 25% by 2022, the rate of taxation on catering and food from 24% to 13% and VAT on electricity from 13% to 6%, strengthening citizens and businesses, while giving PPC an important competitive advantage, which you are planning to privatise. We have reduced the income tax on the small trade, with an annual income of up to EUR 20,000, from 26% to 22%. We have abolished the trade fee for cooperatives, cooperative farmers, JOINT and inactive businesses. We introduced the tax deduction, tax-free up to EUR 9,550 on farmers' actual incomes, such as employees and pensioners. On the contrary, since yesterday's Programming Declarations we have heard absolutely nothing about the primary sector, farmers and production. We proceeded with an emergency tax settlement, with a hundred and twenty instalments. You mentioned in the Programming Statements how to open the arrangement for legal persons. We had already given legal persons with a turnover of up to EUR 2 million by the last legislative act. But you must answer what you are going to do with the act of legislation. Will you bring it to ratification, or will you proceed with what you have announced for legal persons with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million? Take note of the difference: we are talking about businesses with 2 million turnovers, and you are talking about companies with large debts up to 1 million euros. Let us also note that the suspension of the forced measures, for those who comply with the arrangement you promised in your Programming Declarations, has already been provided for in the law of a hundred and twenty doses. But further progress has also been made in the introduction of progressive liberalisation of accounts for those responsible for their regulation. But the question is whether you will proceed with what we have started. There are still some of our commitments that were necessary for the people's strata. So what are you going to do with them? What will you do with the reduction of the income tax on cooperatives and cooperative farmers, with the reduction of the income tax on the islands of up to three thousand per cent, with the exemption of HNVIA on the islands up to a thousand inhabitants, with the deduction of the taxable income on housing loans, with the reduction in 50% of the tax advance? On the contrary, we must say that you are not bringing anything new, gentlemen of the government. You spoke about reducing dividends from 10% to 5%. A reduction has already been made to 10%. How much less should dividends be taxed? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u340	Ms. Papanaceu, not a little time. In a few seconds to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u341	And the previous ones you gave more time. I need some more time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u342	I didn't give anyone any more time. I gave the Minister a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u343	More had been given to the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u344	I was not President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u345	We're wasting time, Mr. President, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u346	Please, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u347	You spoke of a 30% reduction in HPAI in small properties, 20% in medium-sized properties and 10% in properties over EUR 1 million. Let us note that there is a legislative provision for this year with 30% reduction in low and medium-sized assets for 2019 and 50% reduction for 2020, where it would reach 30%. This is budgetaryly secured for 2020. The regulation was aimed at alleviating small and medium-sized property. You mentioned the cut in mid-weight to only 22% this year. However, any reduction in the way it was announced will benefit the large and very large assets. It will also reduce, this year, from the secure space for 2020 to the smaller and indeed medium-sized assets. Why, gentlemen of the government, value of real estate of EUR 1 million can be considered as medium-sized property? You have announced the suspension of the gains tax in force until 31-12-2019, which you have given since 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u348	Ms. Papanaceu, you're in seven and a half minutes now. Please hang up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u349	I would like to say that like the announcement of electronic invoicing, all of this is ready and already launched by the previous government. In conclusion, it is clear that the discussion, as it has been going on these days, could not take place if the SYRIZA government had not been able to take the country out of the memorials in August 2018, a battle during which then the civil opposition was deafly absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u350	All right, all right, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u351	Your logic says that if taxes on high levels fall, growth will increase the pie and the conditions will be created to benefit the lower layers as well. But all you can do is increase the inequalities, which is a logic that is on the back of our own and which is well known by the country during the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u352	Ms. Papanaceu, please. You're putting the Bureau in a difficult position. You are also taking time from the next speakers. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u353	You serve a logic of reverse redistribution...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u354	Well, Mr. Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u355	...acknowledge of you, but contrary to ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u356	Ms. Papanaceu, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u357	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u358	Come on, Mr. Keletsi. After Mr Keletsis, the Minister for Culture and Sport will have the floor, Mr Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u359	I think, Mr President, that I am entitled to a minute because of the tolerance of Mrs Papanatsiou and a minute further because of the suffering she suffered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u360	No, you're not. Don't claim it. Don't claim a minute. Proclaim to speak in the time that has been set and from there we will see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u361	I'm kidding, Mr. President. I'll keep my time. They are really unprecedented from post-Macedonia, and then, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Greece this time, in the government change that we had, the last government change. What's the unprecedented? That the favourable effects of government change were seen, they came before government change even happened. We need to say a great thank you to SYRIZA, as a New Democracy, because despite having failed everything, the only thing they really did seems to have achieved was the way they organized their escape, the exit from power. Because by making the European elections first and having the result we had, they created the most favourable conditions so that this government even takes over the power to enjoy the fruits of its policy. I am, of course, talking about the response that the markets had on the inside and abroad as soon as the result of the European elections came, as soon as it appeared that New Democracy is the next government of the country. And only after government change was discounted, we saw the Stock Exchange climbing, the country's borrowing interest rates falling vertically, culminating, of course, in the last exit into the markets, nine days after power was taken, with the government bond and the successful exit to the markets. What does all this show? They show confidence, show credibility, but also optimism that this government will achieve its goals. These are our weapons, ladies and gentlemen, together with the great acceptance that we enjoy as government by the Greek people. We were told by the former Prime Minister yesterday that we did not follow his negotiating model for reducing surpluses. What model? What he followed, when he took over power for the first time with Mr Varoufakis. Am I being deceived? I don't remember well? That wasn't what he said: I made the wrong choice, my first choices were wrong and we finally overestimated our powers? So now what does he propose to us? Apply his own failed model? Our weapons in any future negotiations that we said were credibility, confidence and optimism and not all that the SYRIZA government at the time used, which led to a great failure. Ladies and gentlemen - but above all here I address our ministers - the dowry we have received from the optimistic climate should not, ladies and gentlemen, disperse it. We don't have to wipe her out. It is our big weapon and, in my view, this weapon must be used creatively. Because in my humble view the great danger to this government is to return to our old evil self, to the one who led the country to the memorials and to the crush of Greek society. I have heard many colleagues from both the Opposition and the Communism talking about returning to normality. I must tell you that I am more in line with the view of the respected President of this House, Mr Tassoula, who said the day before yesterday that it is not our goal to return to 'normality' but to pursue normality. Because it really is not normality, ladies and gentlemen, to have a state that operates in customer terms. Regularity is not when the state borrows to boost consumption and creates a platinum picture of growth and prosperity burdening the next generations. Regularity is not when the state is not citizen-friendly and treats it as an opponent in advance. Regularity is not when the state does the businessman himself and does not help the businessman and people who want to create. Regularity is not when the courses at universities are not done or rather only when certain groups are allowed to do so, usually unnecessarily with the universities, because they occupy the halls and prevent the teaching from taking place. Regularity is not when walls are built on the doors by protesters at the offices of the teachers enclosing them in. Normality is not when OGA pensioners wait two years to get their pension without even getting a small advance, which is done in all the other groups. It is not normal for citizens to live with benefits. SYRIZA asks us - why did I see many colleagues and the former Prime Minister standing on the issue of allowances - 'Are you against the benefits'? No, we're not against the benefits for those who really need them. We're against him if the Greeks need the benefits. We are in favour of the Greeks having good jobs that will give them incomes such that they do not need benefits. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday's speech by the Prime Minister, I am holding what he said and which is very important to me: 'As Prime Minister, I do not accept that we in here cannot decide on the fates of our country'. That's the key. I believe that, boldly, with determination, as the first days of the government have shown, we can move forward and Greece can change page.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u362	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u363	I'm closing, Mr. President. If we had shown this boldness and determination in the past, we might have avoided this memorial cycle that was barbarically and violently smashed onto the head of Greek society. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government - and I would also like to address the Prime Minister who is not here at this time - I hope you will continue as you started, with a plan, with methodicity and perseverance. We, the hundred and fifty-eight colleagues, are united here, one fist, to support this effort, just like the Greek society. And let SYRIZA prevent us from attacking the struggles and mobilization of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u364	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u365	Society is our ally, he's with us and he knows very well what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u366	The Minister for Culture and Sports, Mr Mendoni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an excellent honour and a special responsibility to address the National Representation for the first time today in the capacity of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to honour me by tabling the basic principles of our cultural programme in Greece tomorrow, in Greece, which seeks to put a crisis of excellence behind her. Its culture and management are deeply linked to politics. In this sense, the answer to what was previously said about civilization management in the period 2012-2014 from Civic Opposition was given by the Greek people themselves on 7 July. Our aim is to develop public policies for culture as a whole, cultural heritage, material and intangible, and contemporary artistic creation, with tangible and measurable results in citizens' quality of life, in promoting contemporary creation, in cultural entrepreneurship, in economic development. The cultural sector can make a decisive contribution to the implementation of the sustainable production model that the government wants to apply in the country: A strong Greece, which attracts domestic and foreign investment, creating new jobs with strong quality characteristics. We are investing in quality and excellence, concepts which have been systematically ignored in recent years. We are experiencing the fourth industrial revolution, which is not only about changing technologies, about changing social relations, production standards, and the balance between economic and intellectual capital. The prevalence of artificial intelligence and technology poses new economic, social and cultural challenges. In this environment we must plan and implement our policies. It sounds common, but it's true. Culture is our great comparative advantage. However, the country has not capitalised its cultural heritage and the dynamics of modern creation, so as to gain a greater share of capital at international level. In the context of softness, cultural policies contribute decisively to rebranding, such as the international term, namely the redefinition of the country's identity. We are dealing with culture as a whole as an export product. We are adopting international good practices. Events on cultural heritage promptly mobilise international interest. A similar interest must also be created for modern Greek culture in the international environment, whether it is the artistic arts or the literature. The dynamics exist. Our creators are the best ambassadors to the image of the country. We are developing the necessary synergies with the appropriate ministries so that Greece can become an international pole of cultural education and creativity. What other place offers more opportunities to students from foreign universities who study in humanitarian sciences to be injected into the essence of man-centered civilization? Which place could better project projects of foreign creators such as Picasso, De Kiriko, Dali, Kuns, Henry Miller, Morris John, Marques inspired by the ancient Greek secretariat and art? Apart from the obvious economic benefits, such initiatives contribute to the creation of a new type of phillinism, as people from all over the world are transforming the spirit and values of our own culture on a modern and solid basis. The completion in 2021 of the two hundred years since the Revolution of 1821 - yesterday the Prime Minister referred to the importance that the government attaches to this event - but also two and a half thousand years in 2020 by the Naval of Salamis offer an ideal framework for developing relevant initiatives in every manifestation of cultural creation. In 2021 we will host for the first time the leading cultural institution of Europe, the Capital of Culture, in Elefsina, the birthplace of Aeschylus, the city whose modern history is linked to the industrial development of the country. Elefsina's success is a matter of national importance. With the responsibility of the previous government, both at the level of operation of the entity and at the level of the infrastructure, we are far from desirable. It is our priority, in cooperation with the co-legislative ministries and local government, to speed up procedures and to provide any assistance in order to complete the two major infrastructure projects: the old "IRIS" plant and the Oilworking plant, but also to overcome administrative malfunctions. Ladies and gentlemen, culture as a social asset, which means that it is legally accessible to all, as a body of strong symbolism and values, as a field of fertile dialogue and interaction with the different, as a source of the creation of social capital, is a key factor in social integration, social cohesion and harmonious coexistence. Our aim is to strengthen equal access to culture and to involve culture in the social inclusion of vulnerable groups. The first measures are to extend the special actions for vulnerable groups already implemented in museums and archaeological sites. Secondly, the association of culture policies with public health policies, obviously through synergies with the Ministry of Health in internationally applied standards. Thirdly, the issue of a digital cultural card for free or with reduced access to cultural sites, so that the unthinkable 21st century requirement of showing printed family status certificates by beneficiaries can be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, culture is the fourth pillar of sustainable development. The government treats the sector as a strategic development resource. The cultural stock of each region creates added value and is not meant to be treated as a brake on development, but cannot be used to prevent investment. According to the existing institutional framework, the protection of cultural heritage is included in the objectives of any level of development, environmental and spatial planning. Only if the protection is combined with growth can the necessary resources be provided for research, conservation, promotion, promotion of the cultural stock, prevention of risks to climate change. Substantial protection must be part of a development dynamic. Ideas and strangles are only at the expense of cultural goods. Today we must constantly prove in practice our will for reforms that will make our society sustainable. Through the cases of the Greek, investment programs at the port of Piraeus, the airport at Kastelli, the efficient and efficient operation of the state mechanism must be demonstrated. The use of cultural goods affects both the symbolic and the real values of the development of the regions, namely the real economy. We know that the EUR 1 investment in cultural projects is a five-year horizon of EUR 3,44, that is, the investment is more than tripled. Culture is recognised as a distinct economic sector using resources, produces products and services, creates income and jobs. It creates measurable positive external economies, due to its interconnection with a variety of sectors and services, including cultural tourism and cultural creative industries, which are the most emerging economic sector. They include, among others, advertising, architecture, craftsmanship, design, fashion, cinema, music, artistic arts, publications, software, electronic games. They are essentially a tool for upgrading human creativity that is expected to be the main lever of economic growth in the future. Our aim is firstly to support and promote the cultural and creative industries in the country and to interconnect them with other key sectors of the economy, secondly to resolve the problem of the unequal distribution of cultural and creative production, employment and the number of enterprises in the thirteen regions of the country. Cultural tourism in the context of the economy of experience invests in cultural routes, enriches the tourist product with inputs and interoperability from the cultural creative industries. Cultural routes provide new readings to the monuments, rescue and promote intangible heritage. They set up networks offering work to creative people and innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in the wider cultural sector, from arts to gastronomy. Greece has an important advantage, the possibility of highlighting and exploiting its monumental wealth through its association with modern creation. This relationship enriches and differentiates the tourist product qualitatively and aesthetically. Our aim is to contribute to the urban and economic recovery of historic towns. Especially for Athens, the renaissance of the National Archaeological Museum, which was mentioned yesterday by the Prime Minister, has been launched. The National Archaeological Museum and the National Metsovio Polytechnics create an ultra-local cultural pole, they conceive. The museum is expanding underground in order to ensure the necessary resources for the proper exposure of its valuable collections which make it internationally unique. It connects underground and exploits the infrastructures of “AKROPOL”, which will operate, as expected from 2014, as a cultural thermostat of contemporary creation. It develops synergies with the Architecture School of Metsovio Polytechnics, which remains in its premises. The resources for the studies, as the Prime Minister said, have been guaranteed by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. However, it does not mean regeneration of the centre of Athens without the immediate completion and reopening of the National Gallery, but also without the function of at last the National Museum of Contemporary Art. Major museum infrastructure, state and private, requires certification. We are directly applying the museum recognition system - which has been cancerous since 2018 - and we are expanding it. We are moving on to modernise the institutional framework concerning the operation of public museums by creating legal persons governed by public law, where necessary. Museums remain state-owned, but operate autonomously, apparently applying the Ministry's museum policy. The sustainability of cultural structures is directly intertwined by their adaptation to digital technology. It is necessary to review the policy implemented with a view to free access to knowledge and culture. Our immediate priority is to put forward a proposal for the organised disposal of cultural content and the application of Community legislation on open data without asterisks. Obviously, it corresponds to the relevant legislation for the further use of public sector information, the protection of sensitive personal data and intellectual property. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, your tolerance for two minutes. We are much behind the creation of digital applications of all kinds in monuments, archaeological sites and museums on the ground. The treatment problem is a key priority of the Archaeological Resources Fund, which is fully reorganised. The existing structure is controlled so that it is clear what the new administration receives, which will be defined in the next few days. The reconstructed fund is called upon to make use of its operational mechanism, to support the strategic maximisation of revenue from cultural resources, to ensure a multiplier effect from the local economy and entrepreneurship, to strengthen the dynamics and prestige of the cultural product. Our aim is for the Archaeological Resources Fund to link culture to economic development and extrovertion, to promote innovation and technology in cultural management, to create a framework for creative employment opportunities, to interconnect with the country's rebranding, cultural diplomacy, the integration of cultural tourism, the strengthening of cultural tourism, the universal dispersion of e-ticket and digital applications in cultural products. In the reconstructed Archaeological Resources Fund, the great burden is on the achievement of the great goal, which is the self-financing of culture. At the same time, all available resources, resources of the NRP for 2020-2027 in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, the thirteen regions and the primary local government are fully exploited. Efforts are being made to carry out the projects in the current programming period, as there is a significant delay in absorption. We are making use of the opportunities left in the current ESDP programmes to incorporate new projects and to support modern creation. At the same time, we are looking at alternative ways of financing, whether they are linked to the social economy and microfinance via the Internet or to the full utilization of cooperation with public-private institutions and social corporate responsibility. In order to achieve this, we are immediately moving forward in the revision and modernisation of the institutional framework for the donation. We are creating an institutional framework for volunteering in such a way that it operates as a supplementary resource, but in no case replaces the provision of paid labour. We have the good practice of the Olympic Games. We pay particular attention to cooperation between the public and private sectors. Only in this way can cultural entities be restored and emerged, such as the former royal estate in Tatoi, to which the Prime Minister referred yesterday. Those cultural uses that will turn it into a attraction pole are attributed to the estate, as is the case with the corresponding sets of land. The possibility of relaunching its agricultural production shall be given. Tatoi ensures management of resources while Attica wins a unique destination for residents and visitors. Last but not least, it is the issue of copyright management. We must follow the European example immediately, allowing authors to regulate matters of copyright and related rights. The role of the State should concern exclusively with the supervision and incorporation of European legislation into national law. Our concern is that the operation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport should be governed by horizontal principles aimed at guaranteeing public value.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u368	Let's finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u369	I'm done. To serve the citizen, the State's commitment, the development of synergies with the public and private sectors with clear criteria and institutional framework, the safeguarding of cultural professionals to enhance employment, the exploitation and certification of structures and services, accountability and transparency everywhere, with compulsory electronic publication of annual accounts, actions and economics of all operators, and the establishment of management positions in legal persons under private law, with real rather than materially transparent and pragmatic procedures. Finally, the aim is to firmly confirm that the Ministry of Culture and Sport is a productive and development ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u370	Mr Papandreou George has the floor from the Change Movement. Two Members will follow - in particular, Mr Kelles and Mr Katsis - and then the Minister for Health, Mr Kiilias. Mr. Papandreou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are again at a decisive crossroads to the path and future of both the Greeks and the country. As a result, everyone involved in the House today, government and opposition, we have a huge responsibility. And I say this through the experience that I and my party have had, when we have been alone in managing the greatest crisis of post-multi-population, the deepest crisis in the European Union combined with the threat of the global economic system erupting. When as firefighters we had to deal with this unprecedented situation, there was a systematic exploitation of the pain of the Greek people from the two parties who wanted to take power. And they made it, New Democracy and SYRIZA. It was easy, very easy to blame PASOK as a riot victim, to pay the broken ones, to plunder election. In order to do so, however, the New Democracy and SYRIZA had to hide the country's real and deeper problems, but at a huge cost to the Greek citizen, who saw the crisis continue for many years, the sacrifices to be multiplied while other countries quickly unravelled by the memoranda, because they moved with a wide consensus. The stones for these countries have had the opportunity to discuss the Greek problem from a distance within university spaces around the world. But I also had the opportunity to speak from close to villages and neighborhoods and recently throughout Achaia, to speak to Greek and Greek, to listen, many times and to "hear them". The pain, the endless sacrifices, the surprise of what he received from us and a great 'why'. The people don't forget, they have memory, and memory comes alive longer when anger goes down, and thought takes their place of anger. We owe the Greek people an answer that is convincing and true. The proposal of the Change Movement, which was brought back yesterday by Fofi Gennimata, to investigate all the causes that have led us to the unprecedented crisis since the beginning of 2000, is an essential first step towards the conquest of the necessary national self-awareness. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Without any mood of rehab, truths need to be spoken. When the effects of the global economic crisis of 2007 and 2008 hit Europe, Greece was found to be the weak link. For certain reasons, the government of New Democracy has undoubtedly played a decisive role. It shredded the deficit, more than doubled the debt, concealed the real financial data from our partners, and the country was exposed to a threefold deficit: debt, balance of payments, and - worst - a credibility deficit. And as Mr Juncker said recently, if all this had been controlled and hampered by the European Union, a crisis in the euro area would not have been the memoranda of Greece. But why would Greece be the weak link? If we consider that going out to the low-interest markets we are returning to normality, something that is cultivated either by New Democracy today, but also by SYRIZA yesterday, we are making a great mistake that may prove fatal. What regularity? Do they mean returning to the supposedly normality that led us to the crisis? I had said since, since the mid-2000s, about our pathogens, that if we don't overthrow them, if we don't change, we'll sink. And today the same goes for you. If we do not change, sustainable outlook does not exist. I would like, therefore, to say to everyone that it is a condition of survival, an undeniable need, a national order for building another normality, for building a new and modern democracy. And that means conflicting with a historical problem: the clientele system that drugizes the democratic functioning of the state and institutions. And what does a client system mean? It is the arbitrariness, the abuse of power, the affliction against our ancestors, the arbitrariness of the prisoners. It also leads to the arbitrary intervention of ex-institutional and powerful players, economics, mediators and geopolitical players. arbitrary is when you can hide elements of the state budget from the Greek people. arbitrary is when you can choose with opaque criteria the leadership of justice. arbitrary is when you appoint with the money of the Greek people friends, relatives and continents. arbitrary is when you can and erase fines for the powerful because they are just strong, but you impose new burdens on the ordinary citizen. arbitrary is when you dismantle independent authorities to subject various functions to the daily life of party executive power. Symbolism is a state which is too centralised to choke the initiative of self-government and regional development. The Minister for Education is also the Minister for Education, because I served this Ministry, to decide which departments, which universities, how many teachers will be, how many will be the invaders, a Soviet-type system that operates on narrow party or clientele criteria. The Law of Patras is the victim of this perception. Sadness is when you let drug prices go up with huge profits from multinationals and great damage to the insured. arbitrary is the law of the strong, and not the law's power, and this cultivates distrust, reaction and ultimately the disappointment of the citizen and, of course, the migration of the young. We therefore need to establish a democracy with institutions guaranteeing the public interest, the administration of justice, the safeguarding of the rights of all, women, workers, pensioners, the unemployed, the disabled, the migrants, the LGBT community. Today Mr. Mitsotakis talks about tax exemptions. They're welcome. But he didn't tell us where he'd find the resources. The general reference to growth is not convinced, because if we do not create a state, a development and a serious investment, there will be no distortion, harmful, unequal and unfair to society as a whole. I would like to ask the Prime Minister why not get away from unacceptable and harmful logic: 'Let other people come to our own children'. They are neither an alibi nor some technocrats nor some less or more good transcripts. The rules, procedures are important. This is how a modern state is built. Of course it does not hurt the young people to ask for information from the old. Continuing is in the interest of the Greek citizen. So why didn't you take the OpenGov dough in the choices of the Secretary-General with open notices and merital criteria? Will you continue to deepen the "GENERAL", which you wanted as Minister to abolish, which simply allows the citizen to know where his money goes? That's transparent. Will you strengthen the e-prescription that has saved an entire ENPIA, i.e. about 3 billion, and even every year? Because when I said "money is there" I showed it and proved it. Did he just ruin the street? But we're going to ruin it, because we're going to beat those interests that are gaining from the livelihood of the Greek people. Will you bring back what we have set in place, the hearing by the Bureau of the Parliament of the candidates for top judicial posts, in order to avoid party crises? Will you reintroduce online consultation with the citizens of each bill before being submitted to the House, as well as both readings before coming to plenary? Will you bring the defensive supplies to the relevant committee of Parliament, as we started? Will you decentralise serious decisions and resources in self-government, universities and hospitals, strengthening its region and its development? Will you strengthen the National Public Administration Centre to produce new public administration executives, instead of being a rousphic recruiter, as we found in 2009? Will you ensure absolute transparency, but also rules on the use of the property of the Greek people? The above and others, such as e-government, are not just technocratic problems. They demand a desire to allow us to escape from the timeless undergoing crisis to exploit the living and wealth of the Greek people efficiently, developmentally and in the light of the public interest and fair distribution. It will allow us to renegotiate the excessive surplus demanded by creditors and to redeem it, by guaranteeing all of us, together, radical changes in the customer's political system. That is the strategic perception of what we are talking about. Finally, to look ahead, we must have a state with rules that are the same for everyone, without privileges for a few, isology, merit, transparency and accountability. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] It is no coincidence that the major intellectuals, by approaching the rapid and complex changes that are taking place in the world today, agree that the countries that have institutions that operate, societies that are characterised by cohesion and solidarity, namely those which have been established by social justice and the rule of law, will be sustainable. Whether it is the coming of artificial intelligence, the climate crisis, new pandemics, geopolitical changes or threats, it is a democratic, functional state that will enable us as a nation to cope with it. And that will not just be the case with a technocratic staffing, it is necessary to want mentalities, customer commitments, strong interests. That is why we are critical of the democratic parameter, the autonomy of politics, the ideological and political autonomy of our paradigm, which guarantees such a prospect. Green growth cannot mean just protecting the environment - as you mentioned - or turning some islands into renewable energy standards. We need - and this is an international obligation from the Paris Agreement and the UN objectives - a national planning. Ten years ago we proceeded with Star towards renewable energy. That's not good enough. Today, a substantial first step and a comparative advantage would be for all our islands to become energy autonomous with renewable energy sources and with the next major step of mainland Greece. It is part of our progressive agenda to fight against the climate crisis. It is part of the progressive agenda that the fight against the overconcentration of wealth and the enormous inequality that it brings. It is part of our progressive agenda that the issue of equal opportunities, the issue of rights and the involvement and mobilisation of all citizens. In this context, I can only emphasise the importance of the participation of women in decision-making centres, which Mr Mitsotakis ignored. The protection of workers, especially today in flexible forms of work, cannot be left to the good will of workers and employers. The State has an obligation and an essential role to protect their rights. Finally, I also saw you agree with my view that Greece should become a centre of well-being with the emphasis on quality tourism. The prerequisite, however, is for Greece to become a place of well-being for the Greeks themselves. A new social contract and a green contract are an undeniable need for us and for Europe. In this context, we will make an honest and cruel opposition. We will propose progressive solutions, solutions for the public and national interests. Our vote will be for them alone. Trust will have to be won by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u372	The next speaker is Mr Kelles from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the outcome of the elections of 7 July, Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the Prime Minister of all Greeks and the aim of our Government is to form a modern state with the Greek society in the service of the citizen, which will successfully face the challenges of the European and international system. The Greeks and Greeks gave us a strong command to implement what we promised. Yesterday was the black anniversary of the forty-five years since the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. We were, we were, and we'll be at the side of our Cypriot brothers. With regard to Skopje, ladies and gentlemen of Syriza, you are the last to be entitled to speak about the Prespecies Agreement. You signed it, you voted for it. Don't get confused. We did not vote for it. We are here to correct what is corrected by the adverse consequences of this obscure agreement. And you're the last ones who deserve to shake our fingers because you surrendered unconditionally to the Skopje. But let the Skopje and our Albanian friends not forget that their European prospect goes through the Greek Government. As far as our economy is concerned, the New Democracy commitment is to correct injustices, restore the middle-class, improve the entrepreneurial environment and defend economic freedom. That is why we are drastically reducing the taxation of natural and legal persons and the dividend tax. We are reducing taxation on cooperatives and producer groups. We're reducing ENVIA and VAT. We gradually abolish the trade fee and the solidarity levy and reduce insurance contributions, and improve the law for the hundreds of twenty instalments. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, were elected in 2015 with the slogan of abolishing HISPIA. You have deceived the Greek people, you have not made the slightest reduction and if you want to blame us for something, blame us for applying a 22% reduction from today, yes from today! In combination with the new economic policy mix, we solve two problems which are agitating the agricultural and livestock world. Our farmers and farmers pay accurate insurance contributions, though. They are absolutely right in demanding fair compensation and on time. In the past two years, we have had great disasters, not only in production, but also in plant and animal capital because of climate change. That is why we are moving forward in modernising and radically reconstructing the ELGA regulation. At the same time, we are putting an end to the disgrace of illegal Hellenism and the price curse, while at the same time triggering the control mechanisms, which, unfortunately, have not existed to date. And, of course, our government's first priority is to secure resources from the new CAP. We support the Greek family. We restore the Multi-Technical Benefits to the levels before 2018. We give an allowance of 2,000 euros for every Greek citizen born in Greece and increase the tax rate by 1,000 euros for each child combined with additional support measures. And as far as public policy is concerned. We are abolishing the Law of Friday and reintroducing the highest security prisons, but also changing the provisions of the Criminal Code that allow the release of barbers and isoviators. We support the Greek Police in its work and proceed to the immediate recruitment of a thousand five hundred policemen, the re-establishment of the DELTA team, as well as the supply of modern equipment so that our police officers can safely attempt. At the same time, we are putting an end to the policy of open borders with better safeguarding and speeding up procedures for examining asylum requests. And I come to university asylum. It is not meant in a modern Western state of lawlessness, asylum of infraction, asylum of crime. The law on university asylum - as our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has repeatedly said - is not correct. The law on university asylum is abolished and we award universities to students and academic teachers, to whom they belong. And since our Prime Minister is constantly repeating that everything is a matter of education, we are implementing an integrated plan that will provide our children with important supplies for their future, while linking academic education to the labour market and making the country an international training centre. We change the map in public education, with absolute confidence in the public school and the Greek teacher. We are, of course, moving forward to the procedures for the direct recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers in special education. We are also moving towards the immediate recruitment of two thousand people mainly nursing and medical staff for the country's nursing establishments, because health is an inalienable social asset, which every modern state is obliged to provide its citizens. We are improving the quality of health services, ensuring human dignity and making use of existing linear accelerators. We in Thessaly, in Larissa, have such a new grace in donation to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. So we use existing linear accelerators for radiotherapies in cancer patients, also energizing the afternoon shift. For the severely ill, we facilitate the distribution of medicines either at home or at the pharmacy of their choice and not at the pharmacy of the EEA. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the self-powered Greece, for which the Greeks and Greeks have given us a strong mandate. And we are called upon to ratify it here at the National Representation by providing Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of all Greeks and the new Greek Government with a vote of confidence for a Greek light, which will guarantee a better future for the new generation, for young children. In 2021, two hundred years after the national Paliggeesia, the modern Greek state should be worthy of the expectations of all those who fought and sacrificed for their homeland. That's what they're attacking our historic duty and our national conscience, and that's what we're going to do as a new government in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Katsis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by congratulating all my fellow Members and colleagues who were elected to the elections on 7 July. I want to wish all of us a good and productive service. I would also like to thank my fellow citizens from Thesprotia who have re-elected me through a new role, that of the Deputy of Officer Responsibility, and I would like to assure them that we in the SYRIZA will honour the will of our people by exercising a programmed and dynamic opposition in all fields. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on issues relating to digital policy, an area of responsibility that has given me the honour of being charged by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to monitor the government's work. I would like to mention what has been heard or not heard by the new Minister for Digital Governance, Mr Pierracakis, in the Programmatic Declarations concerning his ministry. First of all, I would like to point out that no one doubts the need for a separate Ministry for Digital Policy, a Ministry founded by the SYRIZA government, and finally, the country acquired a national digital strategy. I listened carefully to the new Minister, who is aware of the subject and has been fried with the high-tech sector, and that is, if anything, positive. Except that the applied policy is much more than a technocratic project that needs to be delivered, as it responds to "whose interests are you serving and with what political vision you are going through". We, in November 2016, have taken a vision of digital policy for all, with the aim of penetrating new technologies in the operation of the state, saving resources and workers for the public, the productive reconstruction of the country in the high-tech sector, and in particular the access of all citizens to the benefits of technology, inclusive, so that no one will remain in the new era of the fourth industrial revolution threatening new inequality. The truth is, the new government is picking up a situation in digital politics with works that got us out of where we were before. I heard the new Minister start his speech with a poaching, referring to the digital economy and society index, the DESI index. Those who should be complaining about Greece's 20th-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-sixth-seventh-sixth-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-seventh-s: it is us, because we, because your policies ranked in this post in 2007-2013. For your day, 2014, the European Commission blocked European NSRF funds of 1 billion to finance technology, IT and communication actions due to the tragic performance of electronic governance under the Minister of Mitsotakis, your Chief. It seems then that he had no time for digital convergence, except for redundancies. In fact, there is also a letter from Commissioner Johannes Khan to the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, in November 2013, which proves what I am saying. But we will have time to discuss this in detail in the future. We unblocked those funds in 2017. We turned them into infrastructure projects. We managed within one year to improve the 2017 DESI indicators by 8.6%, a performance classified in the first five between the countries of the European Union, as the Vice-President of the European Commission, responsible for the digital single market, Mr. Andres Ansip, said in the Greek Parliament in May 2017. This recovery obviously needs to be accelerated. But at least it is hypocritical that the political forces responsible for this situation, for digital illiteracy in public administration, should come as honorers to us who took it from the bottom and should be more careful. We have also heard the new Minister refer to a number of planned projects and present them as new ones. These are projects that the New Democracy and the PASOK have not been able to plan or tender over the past twenty years. The trick's old, but it's not working. At least, we take it as a recognition of the work of the previous government. In particular, we have heard that it will continue the work of superfast broadband, the high interconnectivity and the provision of a coup to users, in order to make use of it, a project that has already been successfully carried out since June 2018 and you can even tomorrow morning extend it for business, because we already have it ready. However, no reference has been made to investments, public and private, amounting to EUR 4 billion, which are already running for the new generation networks by providers, in support of a multiplier of the economy. We have listened with pleasure to the continuation of the intelligent agriculture programme, which has been designed, auctioned and which is being set up for pre-contractual audit at the Court of Auditors. Its implementation horizon is a year and we will monitor it for delays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I now come to two topics on digital policy: a deafening and suspicious silence and a welcome metaphor that the new government has just done by the Minister's mouth. We have heard many wishes about simplifying procedures and so on. From us, from the previous political leadership, you have found the central electronic document-sharing system ready, which will interconnect electronically twenty-thousand public bodies, so that they do not move paper among themselves and save this EUR 380 million annually from the public. It is a compatible project that is being carried out. Question: Will you finish it? The silence of the new government hides something in this colossal digital transformation project, which has also gained positive comments from Commissioner Gabriel. We're expecting developments. Now let's go to the welcome colluts. As yesterday I remember as rapporteur in the bill on the establishment of the Hellenic Space Agency, your then rapporteur, Mr. Dendia, who said that this organization is inappropriate, as soon as New Democracy comes to power, it will abolish it. The irony and the scam went on to the then initiative of Nikos Pappas. Today we heard the Minister call space policy useful and necessary and speak of utilization in agricultural and civil protection services. We welcome you with an asterisk in your hypocrisy. We would remind you that we have already secured the country's rights with the wheelchair position in space. Already, two telecommunications satellites are on orbit while there are routed programs with the European Space Agency and NASA. Welcoming and in the right direction is the 'cloud act' policy announced in relation to the single data collection centre. However, I would like to pay particular attention - and I stress this - to the part of the protection of personal data and the independent authority, as well as to place the insurance systems in order to avoid data minimising phenomena. Nevertheless, it must go hand in hand with the project 'CONTINU 2', which relates to the broadband link of thirty-four thousand buildings, a project which we have had since 2010, we signed contracts and it is already being implemented. And because we heard a lot about interoperability, digitisation and combination of registries and the single digital transformation book, we informed you that we wrote this in 2016. It is the booklet of digital transformation, the single digital strategy, which we have drawn up. You made no mention of your speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u376	Mr. Katsi, please, your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u377	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u378	Wait a minute, wait a minute, the other one, the two of the ministers, we've blown time off!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u379	The ministers don't actually come in, Mrs. Canelley, let the Opposition get in at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u380	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u381	You didn't mention and go out and present as something new that already exists and is being followed. And one last for the fifth generation networks. We will insist creatively on our proposal, which was a proposal for a balance between the protection of public health and the development of the new generation networks, because many movements are also developing on this issue, but without harming ourselves from technological backwards, there is no technological progress. On the issue of audiovisual producers, 50 new productions have been made by Minister Lefteris Cretso. We have opened the way for our country to come to a new world market for audiovisual production. I have plenty of things to say, but I can't make it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the Greek people have given us the mandate to exercise a substantial and dynamic programme opposition. He instructed us to control the government, so that it does not deviate from the path of service in the public interest. That's what we're going to do. So you will find us arables in matters of consensus, but you will find us against every instrument in matters of retreat into acquired assets. We will closely monitor "GENERAL", we will not allow destructive deals, if the non-genus, clearly do beneath the table. We will be here to protect the interests of the social majority and defend what we have done with effort and sacrifices over the last four and a half years. Obviously, I am voting against the Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u382	The Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u383	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is the Programmatic Declarations and I will not be tempted to comment on things I have heard. Ladies and gentlemen, with fresh and strong popular verdict we are in the process of Programmatic Declarations. The sovereign people, obviously, deplored the SYRIZA things and approved our plan, a plan measured, costed, clearly linked to an implementing plan. Citizens shall seek acts and results in their daily lives. Politics, as I understand it firmly, has to do with solving the problems, with regard to human beings, ladies and gentlemen, and democratic institutions. Because, therefore, I believe in a new political humanity, and I believe that there is no higher and no more duty than the offer to man, the highest value of moral culture, I cannot hide my satisfaction that the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, has honoured me, by giving me the ministry that cares for man and for his health. Menander had said that health is the most wonderful of all. So with commitment and hard work on what we have to do with our programme, which we have co-formulated and put it in the mind of the bodies they represent and the recipients of health services, but also those who provide health services and we have made it public and discussed it with the wider society, we have convinced that the main objective is the best public health for humans. In the short time that I have, which is clear that everything cannot be analysed, I will present only the pillars of the programme. I would not be able to ignore the Hippocrates who says 'everything prevents or cures it'. So quality public health requires, above all, organised prevention, which we ignore in this country. We are therefore engaged in a revolution in prevention, in terms of the Government of New Democracy. This will be achieved gradually, but with continuous progress and implementation of programmes for free preventive tests for all. The citizens will be informed and referred to in both state and private structures. In the next few months, when it comes to it, the details of this program will be presented by the EEAY, as will be financed from there. Also, by fully implementing the anti-smoking law and by introducing targeted interventions against child and adolescent obesity, I believe that we will achieve both quantitative and, in particular, the quality objectives that have been included in our detailed plan. The second axis I would like to talk to you about is that of dignity care. Systemically and gradually, we are ambitious to limit the tails everywhere. I am now committed to you and the Greek people for a gradual reduction in the problems involved. The third axis of the program is care for the most vulnerable, namely the provision of an appointment with doctors within 24 hours, the distribution of drugs for the severely ill at home and a series of measures that will improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens. Another axis of our programme is the modern and efficient management of the health system. We are suffering from this, namely the e-government of the health system, the evaluation of the quality of health services by patients, the reduction of the time required for prescribing to receive treatment and the reduction of private expenditure gradually until it reaches the average of the advanced countries of southern Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great need for structural changes, as well as structural reforms. We have a health system with obvious signs of old age. It is also necessary - and I think this is also clear today - to change culture and attitudes in what it has to do with its operation. We have the intention and we are determined as a new political leadership, with the commands of the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, to shake the waters and bring about a plan of change of culture and attitudes so that public health and human beings can be served. From this step, however, I sincerely ask you to support the active support of the entire community involved in the provision of health services. I would ask the citizens, obviously, to do the same. Public health needs us all, and no one needs more, ladies and gentlemen. And doctors and nurses and managers, and citizens, I think, are clearly worthy of better public health. However, I call for everyone to be supported so that we can promote the necessary changes required in the health system to serve the citizen with dignity. I think it is a matter of culture, it is a matter of humanity and it goes beyond the limits of any political party. Our strategy at the Ministry of Health, in order to achieve all of this, is structured in the following pillars: Firstly, the development of public health as an absolute priority for national health policy. Secondly, providing adequate, safe, high quality and effective primary care. Thirdly, administrative restructuring of hospitals and redesign the way in which health services are provided. Fourthly, the development of medieval care structures. Fifth, providing holistic care to people with mental health problems. Sixth, assessment of health technology, in order to provide the most effective treatments at the lowest possible cost. Ladies and gentlemen, our indiscriminate principles in the implementation of this plan are equality, social justice, the efficient use of resources and the improvement of clinical practice. That is why we are changing the financing model of the system so that it is sustainable and rationally distributed and used. We are also strengthening the pillar of public health and implementing a national anti-discrimination plan. Our principle in the implementation of this project is, without any doubt, more social justice. With them we are directly promoting synergies and partnerships with the private sector, by applying modern financial models, particularly with regard to the replacement of biomedical equipment and by developing new services in order to transform the system from hospital to anthropocentric. We are signing a three-year cooperation agreement with all health institutions, taking into account their own proposals. We will listen to them all carefully and take account of what they have to say and add to the health programme. We are actually taking structural measures to contain and minimise the impact of the market correction mechanism, i.e. rebate and clawback. I'd have a lot to say about what we inherit in this part, but they're Programmatic Declarations and they're not here. We are making use of the possibilities of medical tourism and we are creating a friendly environment for attracting research funds in the field of health technology. We support the Greek medical community. I want to be clear. I have unlimited admiration and absolute confidence in the Greek medical community. I must also briefly mention the development of healthy ageing programmes for the population, the strengthening of access for vulnerable groups to health services, and of course, as the Prime Minister has announced, the end to the tails of shame in the EEA pharmacies. We want pharmacies to be a health and information hub for citizens. We firmly believe that our only interventions in the existing institutional framework must be to provide incentives for tax and insurance, to create associations, to care for the pharmacies of remote areas and to modernise the operation of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmacopoeia and other pharmaceutical associations. At the same time, we extend the vaccination coverage of children and the elderly and start war against the unreasonable use of antibiotics. We are implementing pre-symptomatic cancer control and prevention programmes for the early diagnosis and the best possible treatment of the disease. We are strengthening and modernising our hospitals with state-of-the-art technologies. We thus offer upgraded services to citizens without the same charge and send a message to everyone that Greece is now a pole of investment in the health sector. We're reconstructing patient flow procedures in hospitals. We manage the developed IF beds with the necessary staff. We proceed directly to the recruitment of absolute priority, the Prime Minister announced, first of all, for nursing staff. We develop the Autonomous Emergency Departments, the MDGs, which we interconnect with the EMCDDA. We support the EAW in order to respond independently, flexiblely and effectively to the needs of the population. We design pharmaceutical policy and use health technology, with the aim of evaluating innovation, the effectiveness of equipment, medicine, treatment, with the priority of the benefit of people. We are strengthening the strategic role of EEAS. The EEA will be modernised with predetermined quality and cost criteria combined with the real health needs of local populations. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proved and we know firsthand that Greek citizens are paying too much for health in relation to other Europeans and we know that the quality of health services in Greece is lower than in most European countries. We, today, from the Step forward of the Greek Parliament, are committed to ensuring better quality of health services for all citizens and at a lower cost than they do. All political leadership, health workers, patient associations will work together. I repeat, no one is more interested in solving the problems. There is also a commitment on our part to the retention and resolution of the great problem of leaving new doctors abroad. We are ambitious to build a new health system that will focus on human beings, because as Hippocrates said "it is impossible for him to know the medicine that he does not know exactly what man is". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u384	We continue from the list of speakers with Mr Arvanitides next speaker from the Change Movement. Then there will be Mrs. Kefaliannis, Mr. Bored, Mr. Koutsoubas and Mr. Papathanases. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this new parliamentary term, I would like to wish all of us a good and constructive term. I also hope that the government majority will avoid mimicing the bad parliamentary practices of the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government, the Responsibility Response to avoid recalling its irresponsible opposition past. For our part, in the Movement of Change, we have violated every Cassandra. We are now the third political force in the new setting. We will therefore exercise responsibility and programming opposition, stable in the principles and values of social democracy and the progressive centre. We will be here to prevent any attempt by the government to overthrow social rights and conquests. We will be here to contribute with proposals to the formation of a national line in national matters and the economy. I start with the economy, which we have been saying - and we have said - that we need to adapt to two issues: the primary surpluses and the change in the form of the superfinance. At the same time, as our President pointed out, the country needs a brave restart of the Public Investment Programme on the basis of the necessary productive reconstruction, with respect for the environment and taking advantage of the new opportunities given by the fourth industrial revolution. I heard the Prime Minister talking about the ITH on her stay in the center of Thessaloniki. He said, namely, "The Report is changing fully and upgraded, its facilities are modernised and framed by green". Mr. Mitsotakis absolves the position of the former governments of the New Democracy ten years ago that had decided to transfer the facilities to Sindo, next to the productive centre of Macedonia. Thus, an opportunity to reform the center of Thessaloniki and its connection to a single coastal front from Kalochori to Angelochori, which would provide a new identity to the capital of Macedonia. Really, are all these designs going to be left on paper again? And what about the interconnection of the port with the road and rail networks? What about the mall? How and how will Macedonia be upgraded to a pan-European network hub? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the sustainable and high-growth growth that the country needs, in order to escape the anemic 1.5% or 1.9% of the previous government, will not automatically come with the reduction in taxation alone, which is of course necessary. This concept has been re-tested, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and in the past you have failed. You tried it in 2007, in 2008, in 2009. Get rid of this same logic of chilling. There is no time to repeat failed options. The passage from SYRIZA's ideas to New Democracy's ideas does not contribute to this possible restart, to the rebooting needed by the Greek economy and society, as they do not contribute to the formation of an undivided and effective state, your choices of general secretaries, your choice of degradation of the ILO or changes in the EPA. If we are proud of something as a party, it is the fact that we have made great modernistic sectors both in the state and in the government, even in crisis conditions in 2010. And then, we took steps forward. The New Democracy still has no section to show. I therefore call on the current ministers to disprove their bad party self in the matters of public administration and not to re-establish a party and a hydro-headed state. For us these old-fashioned practices will be permanently in our sights. We fought them and we will continue to fight them. We will be the voice that will brake these perceptions and tactics. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more hollow promises and old practices in Greece. I now come to the area where I have the parliamentary responsibility for the Change Movement, energy and the environment. These are two areas for which I deeply believe that they can play a leading role in this new production model in the country, especially the interconnection of agricultural production with renewable energy sources and the strengthening of energy communities. On PPC, we are the first to speak and ask for national understanding. This national inconsistency has cost - and it costs - a lot. If we had more responsible opposition from 2009 to 2015, society would suffer less and the economy will recover faster and PPC would no longer be in a state of emergency. We had warned in advance a year ago precisely that the deinvestment of PPC, as SYRIZA tried to implement, would fail. Today, we are in front of multiple deadlocks: dead ends in disinvestment, deadlock in NOMEs, deadlock in debts. And in the face of these deadlocks, the government is announcing the privatisation of the networks of the TEDO. I ask: was there such a matter in your election programme? When and how are you going to do that? Will you, for example, slaughter Greece in four areas, invoking the time pressure and the commitments that SYRIZA had chosen? We say that we want you to present a comprehensive plan for PPC, without blackmail and one-ways. We will support all efforts that ensure public control in PPC, labour rights and non-charged consumers. At the same time, we note the need to renegotiate the previous PPC government's commitments, but also to clarify your intentions for PPC and ELPE. Will you be differentiated from the design of SYRIZA? Finally, for some time now in the Change Movement, we have proposed the redesign of the ESRB. SYRIZA's ESRB has a horizon in 2030-2040. We must go by 2050 and adapt to a model of a circular economy, without carbon, with much faster steps, as the new President of the Ursula Von Der Lyen proposed and committed to the European Union as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that we have serious pathogens to solve. If we want to create quality of life in our country, if we want history to see us at least minimally with a more friendly look at our events, let us set each one's first political goal and debt in here to stop our young people making a ticket without return. However, since the first samples of the new conservative New Democracy government do not, in my opinion, lead to such a prospect, I am voting against the Programming Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u386	Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July Greece returned a page. The New Democracy won the elections along with the great social alliance of the citizens. The new self-government has received a strong mandate for political change. The Greek people sent us a clear message: strong growth, reconstituting the middle class, security, protection of vulnerable groups. He asked us to move forward in order to win the lost territory of previous years, to stand on the side of society, to leave behind the biased logics that were born in the years of the crisis, which cost very much to critical national issues, to the economy, to justice and to democratic institutions. The Greek people have given us a mandate for a stable and decisive government that will have the ability to implement its plan unintentionally, a four-year-old governance programme aimed at returning the Greek society to economic stability, regularity, progress, prosperity. All of this is summarised in the programme presented yesterday by the Prime Minister of the country. There is no time to lose, and this is clearly shown by the first bills that come directly to the House to vote. However, the result of the election campaign also meant something else particularly important, the strategic defeat of populism, the end of the rhetoric of the memoranda, so that we can finally be wise and responsible to deal with the problems that the debt crisis has inherited us. The next day means the great collective effort to form a broader area of compositions, where economic progress focuses on human beings and is based on solidarity, equality, freedom, away from ideals and dogmas that have led to regression, always with the minds and hearts of society. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at a critical crossroads. He left behind with determination in the decade of the great crisis that changed Greece radically, shrank the middle class, weakened large sections of the population and forced an important part of the Greeks to seek a better life abroad. The challenges of the new era that opens up before us are enormous. They are challenges that run the whole policy range and are treated with a grid of small or large interventions. The Prime Minister's commitment yesterday to the establishment of English-speaking departments in Greece in collaboration with the public universities, a project that we started in 2014 with Mr. Andreas Loverdos, in collaboration with the Aegean and Crete universities and, unfortunately, SYRIZA suspended, shows the clear will of this government to go forward. However, the immediate priority is to reaffirm the sense of security for Greek citizens. This is the most fundamental prerequisite for freedom, creation and progress. Especially in the city of Athens, entire neighborhoods, central commercial streets, became centres of violence and organised crime. Priority for citizens is, therefore, safe living and the unobstructed exercise of economic activity. At the same time, our central priority is the economic redevelopment of the country, finally getting on the road to sustainable development. The high and sustainable, sustainable growth rates for which we have committed ourselves require: firstly, rational, fiscal and insurance reforms, secondly, modernising the state and public services and, thirdly, successful negotiations with the European institutions to reduce primary surpluses. The Government of New Democracy is above all the guarantor of a modern, liberal rule of law and welfare. It is our great opportunity to gain the confidence of all Greek citizens, to believe once again that our country is a place of progress, where they can design their future. Culture can play a key role in this effort. Greece can and must effectively capitalise on the potential of its cultural heritage in order to receive capitalism at international level, in the economy, in its national pursuits. Through a modern model of management our culture, ancient and modern, can and must be a lever for the development and upgrading of citizens' quality of life. The draft of the great flagship works presented by the Prime Minister yesterday concerning the National Archaeological Museum, as well as the former royal estate of Tatoi, are a vindication of the systematic work and preparation that took place in the opposition over the previous years. They also express the will of this government to make the best use of the country's cultural reserve. In the above, I would add the regeneration plan of the Plato Academy, an important revival project of a highly degraded area of Athens, focusing on the use of the space of thirty-five acres as a model archaeological park. It includes the creation of archaeological Museum of the city of Athens and the establishment of a Centre for Platonic Studies, which will be a centre for contemporary intellectualism. It is certain that the implementation of this ambitious project can give new impetus to the wider region. Because culture is the key to liberating driving forces that can lead to economic and social prosperity. It's a field of compositions, creation and self-confidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the truth agreement that the new Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has spoken about is the heart of the political change that our country needs. It's the contract with the citizens that we're next to their problems. It is the basis for political stability, normality and growth. Critical reforms in the economy and the state are the way to gain the future that belongs to us, to unitedly and forcefully address the serious, international upheavals and major changes that are taking place worldwide, to resist even more easy populism by protecting institutions and investing in democracy. They are the necessary and capable conditions to create well-being, security and advancement conditions for the entire Greek people. That is why I call on you to vote for the current government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Bored by SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. The speeches of some government officials, if they had a homogeneity, would have been even better. Ladies and gentlemen, before you chanted, the Macedonians showed up all naked. They try to use the bracelet as a syllable sheet, but that's not enough. The truth is naked, whole-hearted. A number of ministers of the New Democracy are on their way to the Step and try to confuse a number of personal views. It is a personal view of the Minister of Defence, say, or of the Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis. And well, these are personal views. No one remembers what happened to this country? Then there were the rallys, the front was Antonis Samaras. The Margaritis Spine is now Commissioner, who described the Prespecies Agreement as important, and will obviously work to implement this important agreement in the best possible way. So, does anyone forget what monsters' spawn stood in this country? What divisive poison attempted to spread to the souls and hearts of the Greeks where earth? And why did this happen? For some pins. Did New Democracy win? Did he vote? Yes, he voted. He won votes. Did we pay political costs? We paid. But you know what kept us standing, we didn't do back, we never bent before all this orchestra and monsters? The feeling that we were doing our patriotic duty, that we defended an agreement of open horizons for Greece, which best safeguarded the patriotic interest. Would anyone want the Skopje airspace not to fly the Greek F16 but to fly the planes of another country? Which country? What about our eastern neighbor? Well, I want to say: It was revealed and I think at some point the Greek people calmly and wisely will appreciate it, because now they have no time to appreciate it. And I'll tell you exactly what he didn't have time to appreciate. That real patriotism is connected with sacrifices over time and historically. False patriotism is linked to benefits, whether political or economic. Even those who used to market in difficult times of the Occupation the pain and tolerance of the Greeks, expatriates also declare themselves. But I don't want to turn my mind around and use arguments, nor do I want to turn the conversation back on then. I repeat that the Greek people will at some point judge it. Look, the New Democracy won. Clearly. I mean, however, something without wanting to ruin the party of a party that has been in power for decades and has been deprived of it for four, four and a half years. I'm serious about the void. I don't want to ruin this party. I will say, however, that no electoral result is a swimming pool of Siloam. And what do I mean? I don't want to parade. The New Democracy - now Mr Karamanlis has gone out, is not in the bench - on its infrastructure programme recognises pathogens. Except that it does not connect these pathogens to specific past practices, so that one can well assume that a self-criticism of this kind leads to conclusions and changes in this practice. Why am I saying that? I will explain to you, after I am quoted in parentheses that the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, has made an effort to make a realistic approach to things, and I would firstly say that what has been done was good, and that we will accept it indirectly by the SYRIZA Government, and that it is not good, we will fix it. I hope that it will continue on this road and not on the road it includes, which indicates the New Democracy programme which analysed it in a conference, where it completely ignores what this government has done as if and is in the mind of the citizens that they now go from Corinth to Patras in the way they now go from Antirio to Yannina in the way they go and enjoy this good of public works.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u390	It was ready!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u391	Please don't interrupt. Carry on, Mr. Barrett.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u392	Were they ready? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u393	I'm serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u394	When was it to be delivered?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u395	They were ready from the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u396	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u397	They were to surrender before 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u398	You've only been inaugurated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u399	And now the New Democracy is coming to propose squats, says, streets, interconnection of the Ionian Road, for example, with certain cities like Agrini. Why did these vertical links not join the projects involved? Why didn't they join? We're asking! Because if they had joined, now it would be a reality and we would have saved some millions, because the New Democracy, as I read here in its programme, says it would cost a vertical link of 70 to 90 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But if it were part of the existing work, we would have saved some money, because the construction sites were there. Now they picked up and took them and the New Democracy comes to propose this itself for failing to integrate into existing projects. Even if the New Democracy is to propose, it says that it will do the Aktio - Ambros, what it has handed over. While they had fallen into this work 110 million, they handed it over as a clip. He needed reconstruction when the New Democracy left and I can get you the answers from the ministers with timetables when this project was to be delivered. So we have followed an Odyssey, and we have succeeded, since it has had to be overpaid to a particular company, after a judicial decision to execute the new contractor's decision and to have another three left, because one of the ambitious contractors has brought justice. So I'm saying - and I'm not the former Prime Minister, Mr. Simitis, where to say:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u400	Monsieur Baroness, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u401	I shall conclude, Mr President. I say: The New Democracy recognises, for example, that we already have two and a half thousand kilometres of motorway. Soon there'll be three thousand. Everything needs to be integrated into a national plan prepared by the SYRIZA government. The New Democracy says it has its own design. I say that there is a question, as the New Democracy says, about quantity and quality of projects, but we need to integrate them into specific development objectives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u402	Come on, Mr. Baroness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u403	I do not have time because of the delay and the interference of a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u404	We included time. You're talking eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u405	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I say that the state has one thing to go on. The works belong to the Greek people. He pays for it during the crisis and from his misery. We have to follow a road. We'll be here anytime. I said I hope that the Minister in charge will follow a path of wisdom.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u406	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u407	We will be here taking self-confidence from a work done by the SYRIZA Government, assessing a practice or possible errors that we may have committed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u408	You are not helping the Bureau and you were Vice-President during the previous parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u409	...and we will build the new hope for the Greek people through a project. Thank you very much and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u410	We invite Mr. Koutsouba Andreas from New Democracy to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be present at this sitting with the following five references: Firstly, I hope that this parliamentary term will be a period of creative, productive, but also qualitatively upgraded, and above all that we will all contribute to the upgrading of Parliament's authority and not to see any phenomena of the political life of the country, of parliamentarianism and of the position of parliament as the ones that have been observed in the last two months. Secondly, I, having a moral and personal obligation to the President of this House whom we have chosen, in the rhetoric he has put: 'Now that we have become what we admired, how many, how many, how many, will they admire us?', I would like to reply to him: Mr President, if you can hear me, yes, we admire you very much, because we have followed you throughout your course, from our student years, from your morale, your behaviour and your diligence. I would remind the House that he gave me a semester - so diligent - when in 1981-82 I was a spokesman at the School of Law, the PPP - PPP in Themidos, the club, the ballot and the minutes. Thank you, Mr President, and I am sure you will respond to your duties. My third report is towards the Opposition. I see a negative energy show. Truly, I wonder: have you not learned, perhaps you have not been used to the first time you took power, that in parliamentary democracies, the parties are changing into power? Today it's us, tomorrow you'll come along, some of us. Why this passion, this dealing with things with that logic? I do not expect you to say 'yes' in the Programmatic Declarations. However, I have the right to be a citizen - apart from being a rival politician - to say that 'yes, what the government has set as objectives is in the right direction' and not just because we call it parliamentarians and we have the majority, but because they have recently been ratified by the people. He gave a fresh people's mandate that what was electorally committed is also post-election. If, then, we had an inconsistency of measures, of reasons and of commitment to election and subsequent programming declarations, I would say, yes, that we are in disrepute and blame us. You are accusing us, however, even before we take the country’s rule before we rule, before you see the morale and attitude that we want to change. Fourthly, I address the government. We do not have the right or the margin of failure. The Greek people will mock us. And I say that what we promised, we have a duty to implement it. If we follow this practice of impulse without immediate implementation of the commitments, you should know that we will again be in the condemnation of the Greek people. I'm coming to the Programming Declarations. What are the programming statements of a government, when we actually had the verdict of the Greek people two weeks ago and gave the New Democracy a strong fresh people mandate? It is indeed the formal ratification of this mandate in this House, in Parliament - our parliamentary democratic system is structured - to govern the place. In other words, if you wish, the ratification that the government, the Prime Minister, the President of the New Democracy follows the symposiums, respectively, that, for what he has promised to do in the run-up to the election, that is what he will do. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Ministers, as I have said before, you have no right to fail. Our opponents, because that's where we always start to build a state, it's pluralism and bureaucracy. You will have to reorientate the priorities. You should put aside the words 'true' and 'decisive' and create a system that will immediately resolve the daily problems of the citizen, because this is what the place needs. As far as the Programmatic Declarations for the Ministries are concerned, since I come from a rural area and recently we have been damaged in the agricultural sector, I will be standing in three ministries. One, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, we blamed it and I blamed it many times from here. Farmers are damaged. Indeed, at this time, they have been damaged in Boeotia as well. The State mechanism was immediately intervened and the damage was assessed. We have an obligation - by addressing the Minister for Rural Development and Food, if he hears me - to leave the bad texts as they have been before and immediately to find a way to compensate farmers. Secondly, I would like to refer to education. Because in my election campaign I had a lot of young children with me, just like my son who was a student and other young children with him, I know they want open universities. It's the majority. Those who close the universities, those who take over are the minority and we must isolate them. We want universities open, no offenses. And I come to the third and most important, again addressing the Minister for Education. We want and it is the basic philosophy of the New Democracy to link production to education and education, as they say. We have started as a region transporting schools and departments of the Agricultural University to Aliorto, a place that has the necessary building infrastructure, the necessary agricultural areas. So I think it should be an immediate future commitment that the Agricultural University will be transferred to Alarto. In conclusion, and in order to be consistent in time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is a political will from the government to lead the country back to tomorrow with unity and determination. We must put an end to the populism and its rhetoric of splitting. We must, by contrast with our opinions, lead to a creative composition with good legislation. That's what the place needs. I'm telling you, above all, as a lawyer. And of course, we must put aside what separates us and promote what unites us. To exercise a creative opposition, as you have an obligation through your institutional role. Because the pillars of parliamentaryism are opposition and government. When one of the two is ill, he is inclined to the democratic community, as the founder of our resignation said. We therefore call on you to creatively exercise your institutional role for the good of our country. To the Government, I wish you "good success" and implement the commitments you are making today to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u412	Mr Papathanase, State Secretary for Development and Investment, has the floor. Four speakers, MPs, Mrs Canelli, Mr Charakopoulos, Mr Heitas, Mrs Skondra and then a Minister will follow. Come on, Mr. Papathanasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relaunching of our economy and the safeguarding of a dynamic development track requires a state of modern, flexible and friendly to entrepreneurship and investment. At the same time, it requires safeguards that defend the public interest and serve collective and social good. This was the aim of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and this objective we are serving at the Ministry of Development and Investment. We are ready to promote bold reforms, which relate to simplifying licensing procedures, more efficient market surveillance, but also to reducing administrative burdens for all businesses. In more detail, our philosophy of reform in industry focuses on the almost absolute shift of ex ante control over authorisation to post-control. This is always based on risk assessment and the use of new administrative tools and technologies. The State trusts the trading investor and businessman. So, first of all, we are reforming and fully simplifying the business environment, in the context of enhanced supervision in three pillars. The first pillar: we simplify and regulate the licensing procedures in a uniform and coherent manner for all economic activities in Greece, as is, for example, the alternative licensing based on standards, those under Law 4262, the acceleration of logistics licensing, authorisation by private operators and other simplifications. Secondly, we are promoting and implementing a new institutional framework for the supervision and control of economic activities and the purchase of products. Third pillar: We develop the integrated OPC-AS information system, which will be entrepreneurship-friendly, supporting the digitisation of licensing and supervision processes. Secondly, we are reviewing the categorisation to the extent of nuisance of industrial and craft activities. Thirdly, we are revising the provisions of Law 3325/2005 on the status of establishment, operation, expansion and modernisation for the industry in Attica. Fourthly, we are reforming the institutional framework for the establishment, organisation and operation of business parks. This reform is absolutely necessary and necessary because only 5% of the recorded activities operate within organised receptors. We are further strengthening relations between the management body and the establishment. Fifthly, we are improving the institutional framework governing the technical professions, because the existing regulations are inconsistent with current developments. Sixthly, we are recommending a national board for industry that is necessary to formulate a modern national industrial and manufacturing policy. And finally, seven, for industry, we are upgrading the national accreditation and certification system with many benefits for industry and market surveillance. In the area of trade now and the consumer: firstly, we eliminate bureaucracy by simplifying procedures for businesses in their trade with GEMI services. The GFCM is interconnected with public and other registries and ceases to waste resources by transferring documents between public services. Secondly, we are speeding up the implementation of Law4601 on corporate transformations and conversions of businesses so that we can release forces to relaunch the economy. Thirdly, we are restructured the state control mechanism for dealing with the illegal trade and the paramilitary economy, which is thriving. The action of illegal networks for the promotion and marketing of products on the Greek market is a scourge for businesses that fight for their survival. Fourthly, we protect the interests of the consumer with a comprehensive and modern information mechanism for the recording and publication of the prices of goods that form the market basket and affect family income. Fifthly, we ensure transparency in consumer e-commerce through the development of a control action plan for suppliers' websites to establish the application of consumer legislation. Sixthly, we are amending the legal framework governing the operation of the debtors information companies, collectives and dues, with a view to enhancing privacy and banking confidentiality. Seventh, we upgrade the host and consumer complaint management centre, through a mechanism for consolidating and interoperability of software systems. Eighth, we are modernising and strengthening the national central purchasing authority, public procurement, with a view to transparency of transactions, healthy competition between suppliers, facilitating access to small and medium-sized enterprises and creating economies of scale for the benefit of public finances. Finally, we are completing the Green Public Procurement Action Plan, including environmental criteria in the technical specifications of goods or services purchased by the public to reduce the environmental footprint. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July Greece looked forward. We are working intensively to respond directly and effectively to the great challenge of strong and sustainable development. We open the doors of Greece to the global investment community. The aim is to run quickly to bring wealth to the country, new and better paid jobs, tangible results, which improve the lives of the Greeks. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the new government know very well that Greeks cannot wait. We respond with a rapid implementation of the reform programme, which will escalate growth, transform the country into a pro-investment site and give financial space for prosperity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Ministry of Development and Investment is invited to play a leading role in the new page that we have already opened and that is what we are doing. We turn the state from manoeuvre to a private initiative, we seek to create a new investment climate, we look forward to a new investment and entrepreneurial culture. Ladies and gentlemen, we have complete confidence in the creative powers of our country. We trust the healthy entrepreneurship and above all the strength, skills, creativity and workability of the Greeks. We can make it. We can bring strong growth and self-powered Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u414	Mrs Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today and yesterday, and we need to immerse ourselves, as the page turned, the long way from the Left to the ANELs to social democracy. It's a long way to go. We have to admire her. We must repent that you failed to complete this course. On the other hand, we have a page that turns around and a development that comes before us in such a way that I am going to talk about the social state, a social state which, in conditions of capitalist development, does not exist. You talk about a " ghost" and you change the spear among you, ignoring the " ghost". There can be no social state and there can be no social state either. Whatever you do, whatever you negotiate is crumbs. You're negotiating with death. In the years of crisis, between 2011 and today, we have a hundred and fifty thousand more deaths than ever before. Put together the bleeding population he's left to find a job. Which social state are you talking about? You are talking about a social state which cannot exist when the third memorandum entails compulsory - and you have accepted it - from 1% of the social expenditure budget to 0.5%. You've accepted it in the third memorial to you and the others pick it up. 0.5 percent goes for welfare. Which social state are you talking about? You are talking about education which will be fantastic. Well, let me tell you what fantastic education is gonna be, go to the TEI. If he goes to a student who lives in Patisia, where you have made the NASA school, space technology, until the student is beamed, he pays half of the 13 euros a day at the NASA to go. The deputy professor wants 13 euros to go to the TEI Chalkidas a day. The worker in Chalkida, who lives in Athens, at a time when the technology, who has made bio-intelligence, has built artificial intelligence, which has stepped on the moon, which even the disabled can run in the tracks until you build the NASA school there, you need to know that he needs 13 euros a day to go. When he takes 1,100 euros, 800 euros, and he wants 400 euros a month to go to his work, tell me what his class is. Medium, lower, higher? The social state in the capitalist welfare planning only implies one thing: Which of absolute poverty will be helped by someone with regard to relative poverty. Unless it's not a relative poverty to go to work for 1,100 euros in a ten-month contract and take only 500 euros because you want 300 to go and come. We have come to a state of affairs to talk about welfare. It's summer. I heard that your plan to the government is to export happiness. Tourists will come here and you will export happiness. Tell me what dreams of happiness and visions exist. Of the many visions we exchanged in here, we sleep. Based on the information of the Ministry of Labour for 2018, as you speak of allowances - the licence allowance is cut, this allowance is cut - you gave for camping to children 3,5 million euros and went on a total holiday of thirteen thousand and twenty people, seven thousand six hundred thirty children, a thousand six hundred seventy old and three thousand eighty twenty HEA. They're the ones who dream? Do you export these as happiness, who cannot take a vacation in this wonderful place, which will draw out images of happiness and memory? What kids? The kids of the cassettes? Hundreds of thousands of children in Greece have not taken a day's holiday in the last two years. What allowances are you talking about? What foresight policy with 0.5%? Where are these kids going? What are you going to get out here? But you passed the quintuosity of the lie on the notion of ‘social state’ in January 2017. You have passed article 215 of Law 2512, which says that the disabled person's ability to cope with everyday life is a criterion for what benefits he receives. What everyday life? Who? The leg when it cuts off from the knee and makes from 3,000 to 6,000 euros. When it's cut off and you want an artificial member, you want from 6,000 to 12,000 euros. EEAY approves 3,000 euros for one leg and 4,500 euros for the other leg, the big one. In our time it has bio-foots, mechanically, which do 30,000 euros one. Who's gonna pay for this? You have arrived to accept the "travel" and you are talking about a social state! ‘Travel leg’. Genaris and February the treatments for long-term sick people from 110 to 60 million euros were cut off, or half. No one made an announcement. New Democracy took out one and asked how fast the blade could get in. He didn't say about the substance. He said how fast the computer is going to go on about this thing. There are parents who need for the special treatments of their children, the disabled and the specialists, 1,500 to 1,700 euros a month. Nobody's giving them up. There's no such allowance. The disability pension is 384 and the subsidiary is 18.2 for seventeen years of supplementary insurance for the disabled. Which social state are we talking about? What vacation? What entertainment? For what social policy? For what functionality? On the basis of the OECD toolbox, social expenditure should be reduced to only ECU 300 million by 31 December. That is where the expenditure must fall to EUR 300 million. This is a commitment you need to take a position on, gentlemen of the government. But where would you take her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u416	Mrs. Canelle, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u417	I'll be right over. In the OECD you are, within the European Union, in the notion that there can be a social state combined with the gain and the aesthetic idea that this place is a paradise for its visitors. Because it is a hell for those who live here who need and are poor because there are not even infrastructure. Living a lot more years means that it may also have malfunctions of age. What is wishing for the average age is not dealt with by a social state without infrastructure, without the possibility of the other person moving, coming out, talking, breathing, being a socialised person. In that case, then, you know one thing. The JRC won't just put its hand on fire. It will put the knife on your neck to claim everything, from the best legs to the best holidays, from the best houses, which one has to sell, even if it is twenty-five squares, if it is over sixty-seven years old and cannot get the allowance of the OPECA for 360 euros. He has to sell his home, because if he has twenty - five and thirty - and forty squares, he has an imputed income of over 4,000 euros and something fine. That's why this social state we're talking about capitalism, about these holidays we're talking about, about these legs, about this artificial intelligence we're talking about, when the capitalist gets the artificial intelligence he'll make robots...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u418	Come on, Mrs. Canelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u419	...so that they go to do the miner's job and the miner's gonna give as a job to dig his own pit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u420	Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, if everyone talks nine and ten minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u422	Others spoke fifteen and twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u423	It's for everyone, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u424	Others spoke fifteen and twenty minutes! And ministers every two hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u425	They must speak as many Members as possible. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u426	As soon as they tell you something that bothers you remember the watch!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u427	Please, be quiet! There's no need for tension. Come on, Mr. Harakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u429	The contents you thought bothered me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u430	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u431	If you have annoyed the content, look at the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u432	Come on, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u433	The Members of Parliament must respect us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u434	Respect them, you and your ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u435	Respect the speaker, please. Come on, Mr. Harakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the paths of politics is the inconsistency of words and works, of election promises and post-elections. It is primarily due to the fact that much of the world has turned its back on politics or voted with a cold heart, without expecting many things. Reading the government's Programming Declarations by the Prime Minister was not only a pleasant surprise, but also a response to this pre-parator sin of politics. I do not think that there is a precedent, at least in the Migration, for measures announced for the future to be implemented immediately, such as the reduction of HISPIA, the most emblematic tax on the memoranda that the previous government was supposed to abolish, such as tolls and so many others. The strong mandate given by the citizens in the elections of 7 July to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy undoubtedly represents a great vindication for all those who have fought for almost a decade against the flooding of populism, which threatened to level everything up, even to cancel the country's greatest achievement in a time of peace, its accession to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the findings of a new government are usually exported after a reasonable period of time. However, the government of Mr.Mitsotakis amazed positively, showing an unprecedented, at least for Greek data, readiness. Already the government's structure is complete, while at the same time we have the first samples of writing that show that at last those that were election commitments are implemented literally, without derogations. And so it had to be, because the Greek society is tired of the irresponsible promises, the unrealistic fantasies, the outrageous inefficiency. Citizens in their vote asked for projects, asked for the country to change a page in all areas of public life. In this sense, I think we are experiencing the beginning of a new political and historic period that will shape a completely different environment for the country. The success or failure of this government will decisively determine what Greece will be like in the next few decades. Ladies and gentlemen, the main problem of government policy is the economy. There is no doubt that the state-run model that has prevailed over the past decades has measured the livelihood. The four and a half years of governance of SYRIZA and escorts have shown that the dead resurrection of outdated perceptions about the country's productive model was doomed by a preamble. The prospect of a society with misery allowances is no longer fascinating. The Greek society seeks opportunities for a better life for all, where each and every one will be able to exploit their skills and qualifications to advance. And that is the aim of the New Democracy Government to change the unjust and counterproductive tax system that has drowned every creative activity. The reduction of taxes and, at the same time, the attraction of investments for which significant steps have already been taken, as in the case of the Greek, can soon create thousands of new jobs. However, in the vote of the citizens, the sense of insecurity has been considerably weighed on the economy. The new government has made it clear that the doctrine of tolerance to lawlessness is a bad past. A uniform legislative initiative is expected, since the repeal of the Gavroglou Act on Asylum and the Law of Friday for mass releases, until the scandalous provisions of the Criminal Code have been invalidated that open wide the gates of prisons for every criminal element. Similar areas are planned by the government and in the fields of education, which has seen itself in the years of SYRIZA, health and immigration policy. I particularly welcome the determination of the new Minister for Rural Development to strike off the milk Greeks that met on SYRIZA days of glory by unconscious speculators at the expense of Greek producers, deceiving consumers. Finally, I would like to highlight the major national issue raised by the previous House, which will ultimately judge the future of the place and is not the demographic problem and the incentives for the creation of new families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in the next minute, Mr President. The success of the economic policy of the Mitsotakis government will halt the massive fleeing of young people abroad and create the conditions for the return of many of those who have resurrected. Ladies and gentlemen, politics is judged on the result. Those who have no results and know that their argument is lean are resorting to the acidity, polarization and spiral of their political opponents. They try to hide their inadequacy by obscene attacks, insults and slanders. The result, however, of the elections of 7 July showed that the country passed through the constellation of the anger and indignation that has often perpetrated the thought of our fellow citizens in the era of maturity, wisdom and common sense. This is the measure of the success of the Mitsotakis Government, the prevalence of common sense everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u437	Mr Hetas Konstantinos has the floor from the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u438	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a good term of office. You will allow me to say a first thank you to my fellow citizens, Thessalonians, who have honoured me with their vote, to represent them in the temple of democracy, in the Greek Parliament. For me, it's a highest honor. Besides, we're here for these people. The Greek Solution is found in the Greek Parliament because in the past three and a half years it has tried to analyse its programme to those people. We are a programme party and proposals! We are not a party of denial. We are not a party of hard criticism or zeroing. That is why the Greek people, within a short period of time, trusted us both in the European elections and in the elections of 7 July. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I want to convey a first complaint from the Thessalonians, since I belong to the Second Election Region of Thessaloniki. In this crescendo, Mr. Mitsotakis, yesterday again, Thessaloniki was absent. A "storm" flew for the ICU. A degraded ID, "we'll take it, we'll throw it somewhere else," he said. The PPC must be transferred outside Thessaloniki, with new infrastructure. It takes serious work. There is not one Minister from the 1st of Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen, representing the city, the city centre of Thessaloniki to the government of Mr.Mitsotakis. Not even one! I'm carrying this complaint, too. Hold it. You know what? The Thessalonians have reached the point of getting tickets to mussamads a few months ago, I refer to the metro inauguration. On that fiasco. We need the support, so the Greek solution is here. The Second Thessaloniki has a hundred and fifty nine villages. Electionally I visited a hundred fifty nine villages, ladies and gentlemen. There is primary production, farmers, farmers and farmers and they go by saying. Today, I've been here since the morning. I heard Mr. Voridis, he didn't cover me. I heard Mrs. Arabatzis, and I don't hide that I tried to follow her, but I'm lost. You know what? My job is a journalist. I have the honour of being in the Greek Parliament for the first time. That's how long I've seen you outside and seen us outside. You're making a mistake or we're making a mistake. We're talking to each other and we're gone. We're getting into details that people don't understand. We use a wooden speech that the ordinary citizen doesn't understand. We just want to explain to the world what's going on. I don't understand what Mrs. Arabaji was saying. I heard Mr. SYRIZA's boner, who was the agricultural director. At some point he said: 'We have a plan'. Well, Mr. Red, four and a half years of plan, what did you keep it hidden? Now are you telling us you have a plan? It is 5% of GDP that primary production should be produced, and we should have at least 25%. We have the best waters, the best soils, the best sun and what do we do? I didn't hear anything of material things. I didn't hear anything about creating a fourth generation primary production. What we support is 'primary fourth generation production'. There was nothing to be heard about creating a seed bank. Greece doesn't have a seed bank! We didn't hear about special universities in the primary sector. The Netherlands, Denmark and other countries have them. Up there they support all their productive wealth. We don't have one. We have trade unionists, we have an agricultural production of feasibility, for friends to become comfortable. We have not heard any proposals on how to protect the farmer, how to direct him. Nothing. We have not heard how new jobs will arise through primary production. Work isn't in the field, gentlemen. The job is outside the field. The Greek Solution has a program from the field to the shelf where the product goes. We don't live in the Greek Solution, as I told you. Jobs can be created, food technicians, graphists, brandists, logos, auditors, geopsies, everything. That's how our kids will get a job, stay here and return from abroad. There have been criminal mistakes in the past. We lost the feta in 2017. It was also voted by a number of Greek MEPs with an agreement from the European Union with Canada. And suddenly Canadian feta! There goes the feta. The oil is, our wealth is our gold. Exports alone are 500 million! But we're only giving it to foreign businessmen, with the cans, as they are. Why? And you go to Italy and you see a bottle of two hundred and fifty grams and it costs 25 euros. And it says below "made in Kalamata", because they've taken it, made it, tagged it, put on nice lid, they've put a nice logo and sold it. We're the ones with the cans. Central planning: The farmer needs to know what to plant, when to plant it, how to plant it. The state must guide the farmer from production to sale, to protect him from intermediaries. I'll run as much as I can to be in time. So, as I said before, jobs are being created. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece produces eleven billion - listen to figures, examples of the world - and we export five and a half billion, half. The Netherlands produces twenty - nine and exports a hundred billion, almost five times over. We're half down. New Zealand - because the example of the Netherlands cannot follow it, we are still in an unprecedented situation, unfortunately - producing eleven billion, as we do, and exporting thirty. That's a possible target. We can and must create, as the Dutch, the Australians, as is the case with America, Georgia, the university specialising in the primary sector, that our scientists will come out of there. Our motto is "primary fourth generation" and, of course, a seed bank. We're the only ones who don't have a seed bank. We've been cultivating since antiquity and still dealing with hybrids. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Could I have another minute, Mr President? Thank you very much for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, we've become the predator of weather. We no longer have the power of a Mediterranean climate. Our climate is now tropical. We have to protect ourselves. We don't have greenhouses. Here's an example. The whole of Greece has fifty thousand acres of greenhouses. Almeria alone in Spain has six hundred thousand acres, a city in Spain which is half the Peloponnese and we are primitive, gentlemen, unfortunately. For every single euro paid by the Greek farmer in everything - seeds, plantings, spare parts, automation, control systems - 0.90 goes abroad, because we produce nothing, no fertilisers or nothing. This is the solution to the primary sector. For the primary sector of the fourth generation, you have to tell us, gentlemen of the government, if you can. If you can't, you say we're the ones who have a programme and we know how to achieve it. In closing, because we're from 10:00, here and evening gentlemen, it's 22:30, 20 signatures we want, we don't want more to know the truth, to investigate Mr. Kotzia's responsibilities. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, twenty signatures we want. It's late. Another twenty signatures and ten to become thirty, so that the Greek people learn the truth, what happened with the Prespecies Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u439	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. Mrs. silver Skondra is called in Step. Until Mrs Skondra comes, I would like to thank you through my heart for the honour you have made me here and also to congratulate everyone on your election. We'll do well, as long as you respect the times. I noticed after 10:00 we did well. Mrs. Scottra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with the wish of good health, a great deal of strength and a creative term of office for the benefit of our country and our people. I would, however, like to commit myself from this Step to Cardinals and Cardinals who have honored me with their confidence and to tell them that I will try to represent them in the best possible way, setting as the main priority the development of our country in order to stop being part of the poorest areas of the country and, of course, to improving the living conditions of all our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July the Greek people gave the New Democracy a clear and strong mandate to govern the country. The main point, however, in these elections is both our President and all of us have not promised and made nothing of the shocking nor have we announced a programme of Thessaloniki or another of our beautiful Greek cities. On the contrary, we stood against demagogy and populism. We have committed ourselves to things that common sense demands. We talked about normality and progress, about normal life and future. We spoke the language of truth and the people, who now had a comparison, chose and trusted us. So, today, we have the most powerful parliamentary group of the last few decades and our great responsibility comes to add another one: to promote the political feeling among citizens and to eliminate the abhorrence of young people for the commons. This means that there must be a serious political dialogue in the national Parliament. Democracy is not an easy case, ladies and gentlemen. It requires truths, clean words, morality, modesty, responsibility and respect for our sovereign and mandated people. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government, in the right words, legality, political culture and, above all, determination, has started work quickly and has already given the first samples of writing. It was a lack of political will after all. Respectfully, labour and absolute commitment to the objectives has begun to restore the prestige of democracy and institutions. Greece is taking steps towards normality, as is appropriate in a European advanced country. I would say that the revolution of common sense and self-evident, traits that had disappeared in previous years from public life, is taking place. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister spoke to us yesterday about six truths, and I ask you: are these objectives not reasonable, self-evident and normal? Does it not make sense to restructure the middle class, the backbone of the Greek economy, which the previous government classically dissolved through overtax? How will it be achieved? With this in mind, by reducing the basic tax rate to wage earners, professionals and farmers, without reducing duty this year too. Isn't it reasonable to regain the value of the real estate? The reduction of the EMA is, then, beginning in August this year. Small property is falling by 30%, medium-sized 20% and large 10%. Thus, all households will be relieved within the next few weeks, since this decrease will immediately appear to six million four hundred thousand property owners. At the same time, it also stimulates the property market, which has been tragically affected all the years of the crisis. Is it not normal and self-evident to guarantee the amount of pensions and allowances for the posters of work? We are doing so, gradually reducing contributions and gradually abolishing the trade fee and the solidarity levy. Is it not entirely reasonable to seek to create jobs, and also to create the conditions that will bring back to our country to live and create the new ones that have been hosted here? So the pursuit of massive attraction to investment is self-evident to achieve our goal. We are making use of public property, we are unblocking large investments, such as the Greek one, putting an end to the bureaucratic obstacles and the exclusions created by the earlier government's ideas. Isn't it self-evident to take action against the demographic threat by strengthening the family, the cornerstone of society? The Greek family and every young child born in Greece is therefore supported. Other facilities are provided of course, such as ensuring that all children are placed in kindergartens. Clearly, logically and regularly, is it not to provide security for all citizens? That is why the problematic provisions of the new Criminal Code are being reviewed, and we are putting the brake on the release of isobes, killers and terrorists. Immediately a thousand five hundred policemen are recruited, and we are moving towards the establishment of high security prisons. Does it not make sense for a global effort to restructure the country to focus on the main pillar of the primary sector? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why the regeneration of the agricultural sector is a priority for the government. It is essential and directly for us to prepare the new CAP, to strengthen and mobilise agricultural collective schemes and to deal with irregular Greekisations of agricultural products. We will stand up for help and help farmers to make the great qualitative leap in the new era with competitive and dynamic productions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have committed to the Greek people for fewer taxes, for more investment which in turn will create new and better jobs. We have talked about linking wage growth to growth, which will, of course, emerge from the productive sectors in the country. We have committed ourselves to an effective state that will provide the citizen with security, decent health and modern education. For Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of the New Democracy, therefore, it is self-evident to keep their word and to implement their commitments. In this process as a Member I will support the work of the government and vote for the Programmatic Declarations of my Prime Minister. At the same time, I remain a custodian of transparency and dignity. We have a national responsibility to carry out this revolution of reason and self-evidentity, to bring normality to our homeland with progress and perspective, to celebrate the anniversary in 2021 as proud Greeks in a serious, dignified and proud country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, too. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, health is, together with education and the economy, a tripartite of social, economic and human development. Our health, health care and development strategy is fully synchronised with the strategy of the World Health Organisation, identified by the Alma Ata Declaration and more recently Astana, aiming at health development based on the couple of primary care and public health. We are aiming to add value to health by improving the quality of life associated with it, aimed at increasing not only the years of life but especially the years of well-being that can be achieved with primary care, prevention, pre-symptomatic control, emphasis on family care and control of behavioural and social risk factors for health. We aim to add value to medical care through the efficient use of human, material and economic resources through the operational improvement of hospitals and the introduction of professional management to develop space to improve the position of all health professionals, as well as the response to the expectations of fellow citizens. We are also aiming at the development value of the health sector by improving care, research and education production and thereby creating jobs and contributing to GDP growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the health policy in the country is changing. The focus on public health in the light of the tools offered by the concept of new public health is our main strategy. From the close management and management of health care services we are moving to a wider framework for managing and controlling major health risk factors. Among the risk factors that are prominent in the country, according to the findings of national and international organisations, smoking and obesity is taking place. We therefore give priority in the coming period to the integrated policies for managing and controlling these risks. We are also not neglecting the issue of the already chronic illnesses. Today in the country about four out of ten adults suffer from chronic illness. The proper management of chronic diseases can ensure years of good health and lead, on the one hand, to efficient management of resources and, on the other, to a reduction in the individual burden on patients for health costs. We provide comprehensive care for patients with chronic illnesses in specialized primary health care structures, starting with diabetes and hypertension. We strengthen the role of general family medicine in Greece and primary care. First contact healthcare professionals, doctors, community nurses, social workers and so on will function as patient care professionals in the long run of a disease. We're introducing accountability. The Ministry, hospitals and all health institutions must be accountable. For reasons of transparency and also knowledge of how taxpayers' money is being used, the publicity of operators' operational and economic data on a regular basis will be mandatory. The priority is also the adoption of systems to strengthen patients in decision-making. The citizens will have all the qualitative and quantitative information at their disposal. To this end - we have already announced in our government programme - we are moving directly towards the implementation and functioning of the quality assurance principle of health services, an authority that will assess the bodies, publish results and control health providers. The citizens themselves will also assess the quality of health services, as is the case in every modern state with tools to measure their experience in contact with the health system and reports of outcomes. As we know the problems that the public encounters in contact with the system and the perception of their health and satisfaction and response from the health system, we will be able to deal with and plan better health services. Each euro which spends the system will be recorded. We respect and value the last euro of the available health funds, which we will try to increase, so that we reach the average public health expenditure between OECD countries. In this respect, we are changing the view of compensation for the system. The state won't just compensate services. The model of value-based compensation, i.e. based on the results obtained from the care provided, will pass through the whole health sector. Especially in medicines for those categories that are possible, and especially for the cost, we will make the most of modern trading and compensation techniques, and we will apply target scanning systems to identify and prioritise the upcoming new technologies and their impact on the system. At the same time, we are moving towards the establishment of the national health assessment and excellence agency in clinical practice. All of this is not possible without the digital revolution in health. Existing databases and data systems, such as the electronic prescribing system, will be strengthened by both new recording tools, such as the complete patient file, and magnified management techniques and tools for analysing them. We are boosting research, not only in the field of clinical trials but in the whole research on health technology, providing incentives for health companies to invest in our country. We are exploiting the production resources and the worthy of public hospitals through the conclusion of contracts for the provision of services on a fee basis from the private insurance market. The sums that can come from and enter the public health system are hundreds of millions of euros. We ensure the public nature of the health system and the timely access of every citizen to health services, cooperating with the private sector in the field of health services. Public-private partnerships ensure efficiency in the system, but also that no hospital stays without equipment of modern diagnostic and invasive technology and no fellow citizen will be troubled in the runways of the National Health System. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again this: we will take care of every euro that is spent on producing the greatest possible value for the citizens who need health services. Besides, the health system is designed to serve the needs of every citizen. The opportunity for the country is the last: either now or never. Our motto "better public health for all Greeks" is not a simple slogan, it is our deep conviction that we must respond to a modern health system for citizens. With a compass of public and social interests and the confidence of the Greek Parliament, we move forward so that all our fellow citizens have a modern, public, fair and effective health system at their disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, too, for respecting the time. Mr. Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA has six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u444	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by both the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State, and I do not really want to be selfish or iso-destructive, and I do not want to question the good intentions, the picture I make is that there is no plan. We have a report of ideas, a list of huge genealogy, we have excellent references to Alma Ata, equality, to the UN's sustainable development objectives, to bibliographical approaches for the management of health systems, but a plan and a policy applied. I think that especially people in the health sector, those involved in this area, workers in the ESS, health service providers, people involved in the medicine cannot feel safer after these locations. So I think that the image that the government is giving today is an image of not essential knowledge and planning of problems that are obviously present in the health system. Because the health system was guaranteed by us, with a huge effort, with the assistance of the excellent staff of public hospitals and health centres, with the contributions of honest health professionals. We have, therefore, ensured the survival of Cassandra in the context of budgetary constraints and austerity, and I am very pleased that - and I have to acknowledge that - that neither the Prime Minister nor the relevant ministers have made reference to the dissolution, the collapse, the disorganisation, which we have heard systematically all the previous years since the Opposition, when it was referring to the reality of the system. The survival of the system was ensured. That's a lot of intervention. Most importantly, however, all citizens have access to their services in a free and equitable manner. This is a huge investment in social cohesion and the country's dignity. It is a national conquest that we now have a public health system upright, functional and efficient, which of course has open wounds, has problems, but we must take serious action and invest more in additional resources - and human and material - to ensure it. For us, therefore, the great intervention, the intervention - cut - was the cover of uninsured people. We really have faced a huge problem of health poverty in the country. We have ensured that these citizens with dignity, with their AMKA, without obstacles, without filtering, without the risk of hospitalisation being imposed on them that will be charged, confirmed to the DUI, can now come and receive reliable services. This is huge political intervention, huge social and reciprocity, and let me say that it was also a policy for the middle class. Because many parts of the middle class were poorly impoverished in the crisis, they lost their insurance capacity, and therefore they were excluded from medical care. It was therefore social cohesion and dignity policy. But that's not all we did. We have succeeded in the difficulties of the Memorandum Framework to form some critical reform goals, starting from primary health care. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, we have a law which emphasises prevention, health care and Community care. And this law applies. It's not bankrupt, as you said, it didn't collapse. We have a hundred and twenty-seven new public structures built in the crisis. This is a huge sport and we have received credit from both the Commission and from the competent European Union agencies for how we managed to manage European resources transparently and with social recompense. There's a thousand employees working. Over a million free visits have been made, over three thousand health prevention and education activities, school health, home care. This is the new model, the new model, which is being implemented. So the policy that he rightly wants, as the Ministry says, can focus on prevention, the modification of unhealthy behaviours, etc., through the institution of the family doctor, through the constant care of a particular population, which will be guided properly for vaccinations, for the necessary pre-cautions, etc. Second reform: emergency medicine. Reorganisation of TLPs, establishment of specialisation in emergency medicine, recruitment of specialist doctors targeted at TLPs. Third objective: pharmaceutical policy. For the first time in the country we have a sustainable, stable and with a lot of structural framework changes in pharmaceutical policy. There wasn't that. We did not have an evaluation mechanism, no price negotiations, no treatment protocols and patients' registers. We have implemented it and the first steps are encouraging. We already have twenty-three new medicines, for which, for the first time in the country, their compensation has been approved, compensated or compensated by the EEAH, before a clinical evaluation and price negotiation. It's a huge incision. This government, SYRIZA's outgoing government, has done it. Psychiatric reform with emphasis on community care, with emphasis on primary care, especially children and adolescents. A huge effort to relaunch a veiled case, which is a huge and very important progressive project: the demolition, the transformation of asylum and the care of people, with respect for their dignity and their rights. Care for the addicts. Also, a holistic approach, with full-scale public services, from prevention to reduction of damage, substitution, dismantling and, of course, social reintegration. It is a very important intervention that concerns vulnerable and weak populations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u445	Finish it, please. You've already spent two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u446	I shall conclude, Mr President. Cancer policy. National Institute of Neoplasms, huge institutional change. Imprela is a public umbrella for a cancer policy, which is also relevant from prevention to end-stage care. Intervention in rehabilitation. Intervention of patients' rights. Huge changes in reform, which, in our view, are now national health policy objectives. I consider it really crucial that these objectives should not be undermined. Of course, every government has the potential to give its own signal, to have its own plumbing and methodicity, but I think that these national objectives, these major areas of health policy, we have launched them. What we will claim together with the employees of the ESS, with the honest health workers, with the patient associations, with social representations, with progressive and left-wing citizens, is to defend health as a public and social asset, to defend the need to strengthen public care, because I think this needs a society that is slowly healing the wounds of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u447	Thank you very much. Mr. Bougas from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, I rise at the foot of the Greek Parliament after a long absence. After congratulating all of my colleagues on their election, I would like to thank my compatriots in Fokida for their honorary mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Parliament which started a few days ago reflects, in its composition, the desire of the Greek society to leave behind the painful years ahead, to trust a different policy focusing on economic progress and development for all, instead of over-taxation and the voluntary policy of opportunity, the policy which, I would remind you, channelled public money without control to people who did not need it and who had not previously contributed to the creation of public wealth, while at the same time lacking money from Greek citizens who needed them to survive, exacerbating, rather than weakening, inequalities. The experience of the previous government has been deeply disappointing for almost all the citizens of the country, regardless of ideological position, educational and income situation. Since we are not called upon to rule in a political or social vacuum, we must recall that the outgoing government has undermined entrepreneurship by dangerous experimentation leading to the limitations of capital, overtaxation, the lack of liquidity and the climate of uncertainty it has installed in the country. It overweighted the middle-class, professionals and scientists with high taxation on income and real estate and with unfavourable insurance contributions. It undermined the low incomes with the unprecedented increase in indirect taxes, the reduction of old and new pensions and the abolition of the CSCE. He left without support for the families he most needed. I would just like to remind you of the abolition of the benefits of multi-purpose and tri-texts. But the deepest undermining the country's government of SYRIZA was the unambiguous attack on its institutional formation. I would remind you of the attempt to control the independent administrative authorities and justice, the direct interventions to manipulate broadcasting media, the dignity and nepotism in the selection of persons for positions of responsibility, the release of thousands of detainees for serious crimes, both by exceptional legislation, such as the Act of Friday and by the new Criminal Code. What, then, is the model of general and specific crime prevention that we provide society with when unrepentant criminals are left to continue their violations or with comfort to enjoy the fruits of their criminal activities? What message does the tolerance of the marginal groups that are raping and vandalising undisturbed from universities to private property send to society? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks have in our vote held the condemnation of all this and all that Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA MPs are even proud of and appear unrepentant and helpless to understand how disastrous the policies that followed have been for the country. A few days before SYRIZA and his Chief of Civic Opposition began his journey. July Vern said that when a trip starts badly, it rarely ends well. I'm afraid SYRIZA's travel to Civic Opposition didn't start well. Yesterday in his first speech to the House as Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Tsipras spoke in terms of the past, in a form of confrontation, with memorable and critical early and unjustity for the new government. The Prime Minister, on the contrary, referred to the future. It wasn't consumed in drawbacks. He targeted our positive goals, because the Prime Minister represents what the Greeks and Greeks have chosen. We have chosen the policy of unity instead of the division, the right speech instead of the populism, the prudent commitments instead of the unirreversible impulse. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We deplore the return to the past and send a message of a new dynamic Greece that is growing steadily and everywhere, in every region and in every county, the message of a strong society, participation, solidarity, justice and humanity. We seek to consolidate popular unity, strengthen institutions, promote the common interest. That's our ambition. This empowers the New Democracy's political programme that has ratified the electorate and presents before Parliament the government: To drive a society frustrated by past practices on the road to economic recovery and sustainable development, with social cohesion and solidarity. In order to achieve this, we are changing the way in which we understand the functioning of the state. We want a state that is flexible, efficient and functional, and we set as objectives the value-added service of responsibility by providing opportunities and opportunities for people who are capable of being also outside the party walls. The instability of citizens' sense of security is a precondition for any free and creative action. The creation of new jobs. The immediate de-escalation of income tax and HISPIA for all. Here I must stress: We are essentially using taxation as a tool for attracting new investments, strengthening public education and linking universities to the labour market, building new major projects that the country needs. It is necessary to include the connector of the Thermopoil road axis - Itea - Antirios. Ladies and gentlemen, with certainty that they have the power and will to respond to the expectations of Greek society, I am today giving a vote of confidence to the Prime Minister and Government of New Democracy, expressing as a wish the last words from the "Prime" of Plato "we are doing". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, too, for respecting the time. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is called on in Step by Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Minister, you have 12 minutes. You're experienced. You won't get away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the steering wheel of the Ministry of Labour, not now, is always the heaviest steering wheel in every government, because it is the steering wheel that draws from the whole society, the most sensitive groups, the unemployed, the workers, the partisans of work, the pensioners, the social state. I pledge before you that I will serve the institutional role assigned to me by the Prime Minister in an honest, decisive way, in truth, without populism, with efficiency and, above all, with sensitivity. But, above all - and I say this to all sides of this House - with respect for parliamentary control and parliamentary procedures - which, unfortunately, I and many other colleagues have not experienced for the last time - I have made it clear at the outset, firstly, that the New Democracy is promoting a three-pillar insurance system. The first pillar is public, universal, social, compulsory. That's our place. Any other view that sounds all this time runs counter to the truth and to the reality. And that's not a genius. It's our worthy code as a party in the New Democracy! We have shaped social security. So we will continue it and strengthen it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second pillar is supplementary pension, for which much has been said. In 2014 I delivered it to SYRIZA under the environment of the notorious capitalisation. So he went on with her, with an idea of capitalisation. Any - and whenever - mutation and conversion takes place in a capitalisation system will take place under conditions of absolute transparency, under the strict supervision of the Bank of Greece and under the electronic eye and the strict supervision of the capital market, with a commitment that no pensioner who receives a supplementary pension will lose a single euro. And that will only concern the new pensioners. Secondly, in the second pillar, we will further strengthen and strengthen the part of the professional funds, which are the future. In the third pillar, in voluntary private insurance, where there is today, we will try to motivate institutional and economic companies to expand their role and reach Europe's average. These companies will also create jobs and give more social security cover to society as a whole. With regard to social benefits, which Mr Tsipras asked about yesterday, it is an absolute commitment: no social benefit is abolished. On the contrary! We are expanding them and strengthening them. How? But is it possible to abolish our own allowances? Did we not create the minimum guaranteed income, which was the biggest institutional reform in the modern Greek state? Is that what we're going to do? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Or are we going to abolish the A21, which for the first time gave the first time an allowance to the first and second children and the family? We will support them and extend them even by trying to tackle the dramatic national negative scale, as shown by ELSTAT, of the mortality that has to do with the issue of child subsidies. For every young child born 2 000 euros, while, from now on, we will try to achieve the goal we have said: no child outside the nursery. But our difference is as follows: we will understand it. We do not see the benefits as an end in itself. We are seeing them as a disgusting aid, relief in a world that is suffering. Our pursuit and our goal is to decapitate the world from the need for benefits. And we will do that with growth, with the creation of new jobs, so that we can give the world opportunities for creation. We want the world and the standard of living of the Greeks to climb up and get rid of the benefits. But the benefits will be there for the social state. This is our obligation and we will do it as I told you before. On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to a few challenges, which are before us again for insurance. I begin with the greatest challenge, which is really a pathetic decades, which insults both the state and the entire political system. This pathogen is called outstanding pensions. The outstanding pensions are a shame for the Greek society. Three, four years, the poster of work to get his pension is turned into a beggar to get what he is entitled to as a result of his work. Unfortunately, here, I am going to take you unpleasantly, because this is exactly where the previous government's stumbling has been all these years, the hideout with the truth he's been playing. Unfortunately, the truth is tough. I'm going to capture her now from a parliamentary step. It is about the image and the serious legacy we get on the issue of outstanding pensions. It is an image that has not yet been completed and has the following characteristics: Assessment, subsidiary and one-off: 90 000 pending. Main pensions accurately, with evidence from the FBI given to me yesterday: a hundred thousand four hundred nineteen. Public pensions: seventeen thousand sixty-seven. Widow pensions, from those you made the provision to return the widow’s pensions in 2014, which we delivered to you and brought only one vacancy, without having predicted either circulars or software: fifty-seven thousand five hundred and twenty-two. New widow's pensions: thirty-two thousand two hundred ninety-six. And the circular, which came out four months ago, which had to bring new data to parallel and successive insurance, estimated: twenty thousand. The package is three hundred and twenty-four thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u451	A hundred and fifty, didn't you say a week ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u452	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u453	If I add to this the tragic picture I saw in the public the other day when I visited the remaining forty thousand cases, we reach the sum of four hundred sixty-four thousand. That's what you deliver to us as a heavy legacy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It explains why for four years you did not respond insultingly to the military opposition. It explains why you did not answer the questions we asked about the unfinished pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u454	Tomorrow remeasure them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u455	On this, all the Greek people will remember is the previous Minister of Labour six times to say that there will be no outstanding pensions in a short time. Look out, we're not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u456	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u457	I call on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to put a question to the Ministry of Labour and I undertake to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u458	Don't move our finger!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u459	We're not the same. Then, when the evidence comes to Parliament, you will not question and you will have no more objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u460	You've changed in three days five different numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u461	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u462	That explains, ladies and gentlemen, the methods of the previous period, which were even talking about surplus budgets. Answer: There has never been a surplus budget in the ECA. They just didn't pay pensions and said they had surpluses. Here's the example, the 2019 budget. These are from the government documents from the budget yours. Costs on main pensions: 24,600,000. Revenue from insurance contributions: 9.200,000. Revenue from CRLs and management of insurance funds: 2,000,000,000, so 11,200,000. Opening: 13,400,000. If I add to this the 1,000, 000 000 of the pension, the so-called election pension, we have 14,100,000 000 to be paid by the taxpayer from the state budget. Where's the surplus shown in the state budget? Can someone explain it to me? In fact, this is an alchemy, which takes a stop, because for us at least transparency from now on will be a priority in all our actions. I'm explaining. The following time we publish the eight issues of "ELIOS" which will be published until the 10th of each month, where you changed the methodology and heard the unprecedented increase in pensions in SYRIZA. Secondly, we are in line with the decision of the Citizens' Counselor, where dozens of pensioners have tried to find the self-evident, the liquidating of their pension to see how it is calculated. We are directly publishing the pensioners' clearing houses. Thirdly, there will be no more than budgets in the ECA. It will be what needs to be done and there will also be balance sheets, under the strict supervision of a project that we will give so that there is now absolute transparency and no doubt by anyone about the issue of the pending of our insurance system. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, let's go to the fun, 'cause there's a pleasant place in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to announce to the national Parliament and to the world that we have the legislative work that will come in November under the name 'Atlas Digital Pension - The Ministry of Labour in the new era', through which - listen to the timetable - the Greeks will enjoy the self-evident, what they deserve: the digital drafting of one day! And that's not a wish. It's not just a description of a subject. It's something that when it comes to the House I believe you will vote on. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I can explain with an exact timetable: On 1 June 2020, 34.8% of new pensions will be digitalised. In January or February 2021, 24.3% of new pensions will be digital, while in June 2021 90% of new pensions will be digital. So here's what the reforms are! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And all this, I want to say to the National Representation, that it's not something we're creating now. It was ready in 2014. It was the "Atlas" that I delivered to you, which you abandoned because of ideology and did not act. It is something that we could have solved as a society and as a state much earlier and with respect for pensioners, who now list two and a half million. On behalf of the Ministry of Labour, we are stepping up their role towards a fragmented pension scheme - a trade union movement, and now pensioners are being organised, upgraded and converted into equal institutional, social and state partners, coming to their worthy place, such as the other institutional social actors. I should like to close, Mr President, with three major issues which I would like to describe in headings. First of all, trade union law. The New Democracy believed and firmly believes in the value of trade unionism - trade unionism is an important part of democracy - in the independent unregulated trade unionism. Unfortunately, the images of the last GFCM conference do not honour the institution and must take decisive initiatives. It is confirmed that we must close the open wounds that exist in this crucial institutional pillar of the country called trade unionism. We are starting a dialogue with all the social actors to treat this issue. Firstly, for the first time we are creating an electronic register of trade unions and executives, so that we can now know and face up to our country's fragmented organisational trade union system. We are recording it electronically and we now know both the trade unions and the trade unions and the executives who are. That's all he was missing. And secondly, with regard to the question of strike, we are introducing an electronic vote in the strike procedures so that every worker can have the right to vote and not the few to decide for the many, as has been the case for decades in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u463	For the 10 billion pensions, will you vote electronically?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u464	Secondly, for the labour market, high unemployment of 19.3% closed in 2018, in the first quarter of 2019, low wages, the quality of unemployment. I'm not leveling. Indeed, there has been a divergence in unemployment, not since 2015, due to the decisive measures we have taken, the reduction in contributions and the EUR 10 500, the hardest fine ever entered by a Minister of Labour, by a government, to deal with the immunity and misuse of employers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u465	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u466	That is why we are moving forward with legislation in October. We are codifying the 'ERGAN'. We are bringing changes within the 'ERGAN', which we are creating as the ultimate worker's defence shield. The audit bodies will now have an absolute electronic tool, the 'ERGAN', which we encode, and which we also put other means to facilitate their work. Secondly, for the first time, we are preparing a legislative initiative, the white business register has created it since 2014, so that in our home country for the first time there will finally be the reward of the consistent, the one that respects labour legislation, the entrepreneur who pays his contributions. So this comes next time. And with regard to the criticism that has been heard about the EPP, let us make it clear once again. The RCF is being upgraded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u467	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u468	On the first day that I took office, in consultation with the Prime Minister, I met the auditors of the APRC. The ADR is the forefront of trying to deal with abusive behaviour and so it will be. We upgrade it, strengthen it. It is at the forefront of dealing with abusive behaviour. We send a message out that abusive behaviors...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u469	Just like it was before!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u470	Please, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u471	There are no abuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u472	I see you, Mr. Janakopoulou. Let the Minister speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Kalafatis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u474	And I also reply to the question as to the extent to which these violations have been committed. So since you are causing us, you will have the answer. In February 2013, undeclared work in Greece was 42.5%. We delivered it in December 2014 to 12%. Today it's about 10%. That didn't come by accident. It was the result of an effort of conscious choice to deal with abusive behaviour, to strike off infraction in the labour market and to do so. And I close with the last one that's the one hundred twenty-dollar setting. You saw, Mr. SYRIZA, the hundred and twenty instalments are not abolished. Not only are they maintained, but they are strengthened more with what the Prime Minister said yesterday. It's just that the message that needs to be left to everyone is that it's the last chance. This one hundred and twenty-dollar arrangement is an opportunity for all, businessmen and natural persons to join because there will be no next chance. It's a golden opportunity to close the open wounds with the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, too. Mr Alexandros Flamouraris has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr. Bukokouros from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, two words in relation to what was said by the previous speaker with coolness and sobriety. Minister, this is not the first time you've been the Ministry of Labour. You have also been on the brink of past years, which has led the insurance system to the brink of destruction, and you have also contributed to it with your policies. A second issue is in relation to the figures you mentioned. I think the previous Minister for Labour has made clear a few things, which I hope will also be clarified on the part of the governing party, so that we do not talk about such figures that may - because it is not true, I do not want to say that they are lies, I say that they are not properly calculated - actually lead to the cancellation of the attempt to have an insurance system which defends the life of many partisans of work. That is why, Mr Brutsi, listening to you, I thought your intervention was before the elections. It was an intervention which had a topic and a topic which was before the European elections. The political reason was not distinguished and is not distinguished by what, after the European elections as a mandate, was among all the members and members of the New Democracy, to keep mild tons. Unfortunately, you have escaped from this direction in the speech. Now I need to come to my speech because I ate two and a half minutes. I will say that I wish everyone and all good power and creative work. The Programming Declarations of the Government, however, have already been made clear by many speeches and, above all, by the Prime Minister, that they constitute a grid of ideas and practices that are deeply conservative, because they recommend another Greece internationally and internally that we aim, a Greece different from that which all the progressive forces of this country have chosen us, which have given us the mandate to formulate and claim, which together with the progressive forces of Europe, for which I have not heard anything, will be fighting for a Europe of social, democratic, without austerity, open to the whole world rather than a Europe fortress. Regarding the issues of Programming Declarations in particular, SYRIZA's President, Alexis Tsipras, and several ministers have also highlighted strategies and individual government proposals and have been placed on it. The position of Mr. Xanthos in relation to the health situation I think has been so impressive that it really shows that there is a weakness on the part of the government, which I fear may evolve negatively. There is no full knowledge of the situation and it is therefore seeking to present the proposal on the part of the Opposition, so that there are no political controversies on the part of the Opposition and, in particular, the Officerial Response. I believe that SYRIZA Members will be placed on the way to all these issues relating to the specific problems of each sector of government's work. So I don't want to talk about it now. The other speakers will speak and speak. I shall refer only to the facts, in a general picture, which is determined by the truths, the facts and not by the ideas reports. I'm coming to the first event. The new government has cost the European elections a great deal of pride to Mr Webber's European name, which, in the end, did not even preservatives of Europe, namely extreme liberalism, hard austerity and, of course, to the xenophobic policies of Europe - fortress. At the same time, as a logical result, he never condemned Mr Orban's xenophobic and extreme neoliberal policies. Secondly, the new government has worn the capital of the Macedonian and divided the Greek people, denounced us of treason with the Prespecies Agreement with the extreme right forces. I look over there 'cause that's where it was. Very briefly, however, it began to find that hypocrisy, tacticism and over-patriotism are not inexperienced, because many of its Members have already placed themselves in relation to the Ambassadors' agreement. The third fact is that the new government appears as a savior to medium-income and a lever of growth and investment. We in our presidency were talking about a fair growth that would be in favour of a large majority of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u477	Finish it, please. You've been over two minutes a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u478	In the dilemmas that are being put forward and are decent wages, labour rights, fair claims of workers, protection of the environment and archaeological treasures, your government officials are in favour of growth, a criticism completely contrary to our proposal. Very soon, however, the Greek people will find that trade has already begun and I would like to warn you that we know very well what is going on. The fourth fact is that in the worthy difference in words - keys, in the favourite words - the doctrines of the new government, such as regularity, law - order, excellence - advance, we compare our values, such as progress, human rights, justice, coexistence, creation. Political culture is the fifth event.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u479	You're short, Mr. Flambury. You've gone too far. The clock's across the street. It's nine and twenty-seven minutes the time you've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u480	The first two were...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u481	The first two you wanted to tell Mr. Brutsi. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u482	Good. I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u483	Let's talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u484	You're welcome, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u485	I will say then about the seventh, which is the government's authoritarianity. The government's authoritarianity is evolving with institutional interventions in immigration policy, but also with scarce behaviors towards the poor, heirs, refugees and immigrants. In your speech, the concepts "suppression", "reinstate Type III prisons", "the Law of Friday cause for all evils", attack on individual and social rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Flambury, you're embarrassing me. You've been talking for ten minutes. Please respect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u487	That's respect, keeping time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u488	I hope that Minister Chrysochoidis, as he has nursed in parties in the democratic area, will not exploit the transfer of powers to carry out authoritarian and, at the same time, ineffective policy. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this data, our government is unable to vote for the Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u489	You're not a government! You're ordering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u490	Because of the time he made a verbal mistake. Thank you, Mr. Flambury. Mr Christos Bukouros from New Democracy has six minutes, and then Mr. Kastanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u491	Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it takes a year to adapt our fellow Members to new times and new tasks. They have our understanding, and I literally do. I don't call it ironic. First, I would like to wish all of you a good service, mainly for the benefit of the Greek people, the country and the Greek nation. We must all be strong and bear in mind the tasks assigned to us by the Greek people. First of all, and in response to our previous colleagues, I would like to say that an analysis of the election result is required, even in titles, so that we can better understand all our roles assigned to us by the Greek people. I think that in the elections of 7 July the verdict of the Greek people did not simply lead to the rotation of some parties, i.e. SYRIZA, a party of the Radical Left or the Uncontrolled Left, as we said in the last four years, nor did it simply bring a party of the liberal Central Right to the governance of the country. They're important to all of this. I do not believe that the dividing lines have been lost, that ideologies have been erased, that there are no differences. There are, they exist not only in Greece, but throughout the world. I think the Greek people after a nine-year-old inclination made a more important choice. A party, which had compromised with stagnation, with misery and with subsidised management, as if all Greeks could live with certain benefits to bring the country's responsibility for governance, a party, which since the first days shows that it is committed to speed, the result and the prospect that this country and this people have. In other words, the accounts made by the new Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy are not based on the poor results of the crisis to date, but are leaning on the prospect that this people and that country have. We look forward and see positive. This shows both the climate inside and abroad. In the interior there is a diffuse optimism, an expectation and a well-founded expectation of the Greek people by the new government. Outside you see international media, international political actors, economic players say the government started very well, started fast, started with a program, started with a plan. I can hear the Vice-Presidents finding that there is still no plan from the Programmatic Declarations. But it is the only government in recent years, as far as I remember from my professional path, which said something in the programme statements, without derogating, without saying any more election and other post-elections. It is also the only government that presented long before the election period a comprehensive programme in all areas and a costed programme. This programme has also become programming positions and commitments today. So, where do you see that there's no plan when there's a program when there's a specific timetable for the first time? I am pleased to hear the Minister for Labour earlier say 'then that will be done, the pensions will be issued', with a specific timetable. These are indeed unprecedented for the usual on the Greek political scene. So I would say that the plan is all that. It is our programme, it is the timeline, and it is our political behaviour, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. And it's too early to say there's no plan. I'd say it's very arrogant. You have not been taught by your heavy policy of defeat. That's what your approach shows. From there on, I see you shoot at the government's positions to strengthen security and you call it repression. However, you are missed that without social peace and without social security there is no social prosperity and no social progress. Don't underestimate it. Prespes also became a dominant theme of Programmatic Declarations. Ask for the change. You know, in politics everything is judged by the result. And you are the ones who signed this agreement that represents a withdrawal from our national laws. And you come to blame the New Democracy today for changing the position. New Democracy doesn't change any position. Never did Mr. Mitsotakis say he would abolish this agreement. After all, you know much better that the country's international agreements are not easily abolished. They're binding on her. Tsipras doesn't sign, SYRIZA doesn't sign. So that's good to remember. I see you are particularly concerned, because we are talking about investment and development. Who? Your government, which has never achieved the growth rates it itself wrote in budgets. Who? Your government that has to show growth rate in the first quarter of 2019 the weak, anaemic 1.3%! So growth is a bad thing? Is it a bad thing to grow the pie? How will health, education, security, pensions and wages be financed if this pie called GDP does not grow? And that's what you didn't make of it. We've lost a lot of billions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President, to conclude by saying a few words about my constituency, the Magnesia Prefecture. I want to take the opportunity of my first speech and thank fellow citizens for their preference and for my re-election. I should also like to address the government's main ministers, saying that the constituency from which I come really can be a model of development. It has important, but unexploited infrastructure and a rich productive character on which the government's efforts must be based from now on in order to achieve this dubious development. We expect the new government and the present Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to complete the Volos – Larissa electricity project. Volos, you know, has been a port with railway connection for over a hundred and twenty years and has remained unexploited, while other ports are now connected to the railroad. We expect the port of Volos to be exploited, one of the three largest left under public control, of course through the TSE. We look forward to the promotion of the remaining tourist investment and the exploitation of the two industrial areas, which the new government's policies have to blossom again. This is what the citizens who have voted for us, who ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, have voted for us to have more opportunities for everyone, better security for society and greater confidence in Greece and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, too. Mr Kastanides now has the floor from the Change Movement for six minutes and immediately after Mrs Rapti from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u493	I return to the Greek Parliament after seven years of absence. I am pleased to meet old colleagues again and I know new colleagues. In these latter, the younger, fellow Members, I invite them and I ask them to always remember in their political path the excellent wording of Alain Bandhiou, that "Policy will always be the meeting of the science of ideas, with the surprise of the circumstances". Ladies and gentlemen, rarely programme statements give rise to negative impressions. The hard starts after they are read. It's the hard road from announcements to implementation. Governments are then judged and not when we read the programming statements. And our historical experience teaches us that few were the governments, in the context of modern Greek history, who have been perfectly consistent between the promises and those made. I hope that for the good of the country the government will succeed and that it will be within these exceptions to the governments that have been consistent between reasons and actions. It is a wish I would give it to any government, regardless of ideological colour. However, I am not entitled, ladies and gentlemen, to give up some early remarks on the basis of what was said during the debate on the Schedule Declarations. My first point is that Prime Minister Mitsotakis has announced a future of prosperity and, as he has noticed, this prosperity must be real and not the polite prosperity of the past. The announcement by the Prime Minister is a political paradox, because it is made by the head of a party responsible for the period 2004-2009 for the fiscal derailment of the country and its bankruptcy. Not according to what I am claiming, but according to what the European Parliament's report missing in Greece has been described since March 2014. I stress this in order not to claim that an invisible party patriotism pushes me into such a remark. Well, the political paradox is that unplanned prosperity is announced by the President, the leader of a party responsible for the country's financial derailment in the period 2004-2009. One could see that this was judged by the Greek people's vote, by the choice of the Greek people. Of course, that is how it is in democracies. But in the historic time of the future, when most of them have been evaluated, one will be entitled to conclude that in Greece today's event the party that can maintain its electoral integrity must have been bankrupt. There are also a number of other comments related to the reading of the Programming Declarations. I would like to stress the commitment of the Prime Minister to announce a series of reductions in taxation. Reductions in the taxation of income, businesses, HICP are welcome communications, insofar as they relieve social classes which have suffered during the ten-year crisis. However, a reasonable question arises. The reduction in tax revenue from somewhere must, in fact, be supplemented, in view of the Community's warning that growth for the current year and for the next year will be less than forecast for growth and in view of the Bank of Greece's warning that it is possible that the level of the primary surplus is not what the previous government, the Tsipras government, has agreed with creditors. So, from somewhere, tax reductions need to be replaced. How? That's why there's no answer. Usually the ideologically charged answer of the New Democracy and Prime Minister is that the tax reductions themselves will invite investors to invest and thus to develop. This is an ideological obsession which has not been confirmed either here, during the crisis or elsewhere. This obsession reminds me of the obsession of creditors when during the negotiations on the second memorandum they insisted, as in the first memorandum, on a serious wage cut, because, as they said, the balaning of wages in Greece will give Greek businesses competitiveness and invite investors to invest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As you know, the dramatic decline in wages, like pensions, did not bring about either the competitiveness of Greek businesses, nor did it cause a wave of investment or even small investment. The reduction in taxation is therefore not a prerequisite for growth, but, on the contrary, a reduction in taxation should accompany a national plan for the country's productive reconstruction. First, that is, it should announce a well-processed plan to change the production model, the production structure, and this change should be accompanied by a reduction in taxation. The early shape won't pay off.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u494	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u495	I should like to close, Mr President, because time is relentless, with an observation. Such crises could also be the case for the poor ideas that have been heard about state modernisation, justice and the necessary major changes that the political system needs. I don't have time to do it. I would point out, however, that it is necessary - and I hope so - for the government to make clear with all the counter-population to look more fully at the issues that it has already raised and for decisions on the good of the country to be more effective, so as not to confirm the sarcastic wording of a British genius - I am talking about Oscar Wilde - that the right decisions are usually taken late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u496	Thank you very much. Mrs Eleni Rapti from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes. And Mr. Constantine Barkas follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the first days of a new people's mandate, a great political change that the Greeks have asked for, demonstrating their confidence in the New Democracy and the Prime Minister personally, a mandate of self-reliance after ten years of adventure with governments of cooperation. From today we move from an environment of political instability and uncertainty to a future with political stability and perspective. It is therefore an important moment to be recorded in the country's political history. The Prime Minister put in dialogue with society the main priorities of the new term. He has set milestones and plans for each area of national policy. And the first feature, which also gives the mark of the new political period, is the opening of the new government to executives of other ideological sites, technocrats, marketmen, but also to officials with political, parliamentary and ministerial experience. This is the mixture of a modern government that can produce results: The best use of the best, an executive group with timetables and objectives of economic, financial, social. Because the recipients of every policy are the people and it is their future that we want to do better. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy of the new government is well known to the citizens, as long as someone reads what we have said in an election to see exactly what we are going to do after-elections. The era of the programs of Thessaloniki and the great lies of politics has gone a long way. Politics will now be credible so that it can have society with it. It will have an ethos and a result in a Greece that is now united. From the first day of new governance until the end of the term of office, we are implementing a plan that will take Greece forward. In the short time that I have, I want to make a special reference to taxation, because that is where growth begins. The first objective is to pay the Greeks less taxes so that the economy can get ahead with new investments and many new and well-paid jobs. Taxation stops being only a source of revenue, becomes a lever for growth. The tax on businesses is reduced to 20% in two phases. In September, the reduction from 28% to 24% for the revenues of 2019 and for dividends from 10% to 5% will be voted on. At the same time, we are motivating the economy to bring investment. VAT is suspended on building and value tax on purchases and sales. The first rate of taxation for incomes up to EUR 10,000 falls from 22% to 9%, but the maximum is also reduced. The contribution of solidarity and the end of trade are gradually being phased out. We're reducing insurance contributions from 20% to 15%. We limit VAT from 13% to 11% and from 24% to 22%. In a few days' time, the citizens will also see the reduction of HPAI, mid-weightly, 22% lower. We said this about 2020. We've been applying it since now. We are, however, moving on to policies that help households and businesses with public debt due to overtaxation. The setting of 20 doses is improved and widened. The minimum monthly payment shall be reduced from EUR 30 to EUR 20. The current interest rate on households and businesses is down from 5% to 3%. All enterprises and legal persons with a basic debt of up to EUR 1 million are regulated. For those who are part of and remain in the arrangement, seizures and forced recovery measures are suspended. Two thousand doctors and nurses are employed in health. We want in the medium term a thousand five hundred nurses a year to run our hospitals. The anti-smoking law is finally being applied. We give priority to radiation therapy. Medicines of the severely ill will be distributed at home or by a pharmacy of their choice instead of the pharmacy of the EEA. And in collaboration with the private sector, all needs of primary health units are met. Finally, we are immediately on the way to the payment of widow's pensions, which some after having reduced them, forgot to pay them. In education, four and a half thousand teachers are recruited in special education within two years and then the question of assistant teachers is dealt with. Universities will now determine the annual number of importers. The asylum of lawlessness and infringibility shall be abolished. The security is hired by a thousand five hundred police officers. Within a semester we replace the equipment and bulletproof vests of Greek Police personnel. And within 2020 we ensure new patrols and machines. We are suspending until the end of September the validity of the Criminal Code in order to change many of its problematic provisions. We prevent isovictims and terrorists from being released. We are founding high security prisons of type III and that is right away. At the same time, we are stepping up controls on illegal immigration and creating human conditions in reception centres. At the same time, we define with respect the yearly and worthy of justice the leadership of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, society has changed, it is more prepared to go forward and the New Democracy is ready to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, too, for respecting the time, my colleague. Here comes Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u499	Mr President, thank you very much. Starting with my speech, I would like to express my warmest condolences to the loss of a comrade, a reporter of the radio "STO KOCKINO", a man with whom I was lucky to cooperate, of Vangelis Karagiorgos, who suddenly lost his life today. The entire SYRIZA Parliamentary Group expresses its deepest sympathy to Vaggelis' friends and relatives, who will be remembered for the social struggles he has given, for the struggles against globalisation in Genoa. He has always been present in the demands of workers, young people. He was a very special man. Mr President, also, I would like to emphasise a significant difference in relation to what I was living as an elected Member from 2012 until now. It is very important for young colleagues that we are no longer present at the headquarters of the House, that the Members of the Golden Dawn, the neo-nazi culture, who unfortunately have lost us - in introductory terms always the word - infinitely good moments in the Greek Parliament. Starting with my speech - and I have the risk of being removed from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group with what I am about to say now - I would like to congratulate the Government, Mr President, on two initiatives which it has taken. The first is the place of the former leader of ELAS, Mr Tsouvala, in the post of Secretary-General of the Public Order. I would like to congratulate the New Democracy and its Members who welcome this decision. It's obvious two things for Mr. Tsuballa. Mr Tsouvalas, firstly, is a capable man, a competent police officer, who gave his life to a critical battle, and I think it is also a recognition, if you like, of the decision of the previous government and the previous political leadership to make him a Chief of Police. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is an excellent option. But the second thing I have to stress about Mr Tsubala and that is the fact that with the help of journalists and the media, you have claimed political benefits in a national disaster. This shows neither political maturity nor an honest attitude, but dominatingly it shows that you are people and a party that in a national disaster you claim political benefits. Secondly, I would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on the choice to place an former MEP, Mr Mavrota, in the post of the Secretary-General of Sports. George Mavrotas is indeed a capable man, a skilled politician, who from his position gave and won battles. I have to say that he has given a lot of things to the field of sport. But I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that he is one of those who voted for the Ambassadors' agreement, and this choice shows that you have also claimed with the help of media and journalists, who are now in your ranks, in your parliamentary group, to speculate on a national issue. The fact that you did not say public things, but you participated in demonstrations and rallys, which had as a central slogan the cancellation of the agreement and various other things that have been heard at these rallys, such as saying that democracy is selling Macedonia - there you participated, in these rallys - shows the maturity with which you wanted to evaluate a national agreement, which, in your view, now, with all the political decisions it had taken, is an agreement with which our country is winning, our country is coming out of this battle. Mr President, I would like to go to the portfolio which I have had the honour of serving for a semester and of placing on the basis of what we have heard from the Minister of Labour. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind the House that this Minister of Labour is not his first term of office, but he is the Minister of Labour of the Government of Samara - Venizelos, as they say, of the PASOK and the New Democracy. It is the man to whom unemployment is caused by 27%, undeclared work of over 20% and a number of other interventions, such as the vote on the minimum wage, that is to say, young workers are paid less than the minimum wage, the reduction of the minimum wage by a decision of the Council of Ministers of 22% and a number of other interventions, which really show the tone with which they want to move. But this is where he said a number of things. You know, we'll give a period of grace and then we'll tell you that you're lying. But you're saying truths. So Mr Brutsis came here and told us that the outstanding pensions are four hundred thousand. He's getting confused. In 2015 were four hundred thousand, which we received. Now the outstanding pensions, sir, subsidiary and one hundred thousand. These were presented by the former Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, in her speech this morning. But the Minister has said clearly now that he will seek and win and will succeed in privatising subsidiary insurance. Very good. But what is the cost of the state budget? He's not telling us. He's artificially hiding it. He is right that you have a theoretical weakness in answering what you are going to do, what the cost is for what you want to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We therefore say that you have a model that says you want to privatise insurance. All your executives say that thing. We believe that with this you are trying to deceive public social security and you want to go to private sector. The Minister also said something else. He talked about undeclared work, but he got confused with percentages. In 2014, we received it at 20%. It is this Minister for Labour who is now claiming the privatisation of the insurance system. So we, ladies and gentlemen, will be here. We will be here to claim the Greek people. We will be here to claim for all those who you obviously do not have in mind, to claim for workers and pensioners. I would like to end with something last time, with the Labour Inspectorate. It was Mr. Brutsis who dismantled the Labour Inspectorate and now acted with his decision to delete the APR from a Special Secretariat. It is what a private employer had asked Mr. Mitsotakis for in his pre-election speech. He told him we don't want any more checks. We don't like controls. So we, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, claimed and strengthened the Labour Inspectorate. We consider the Labour Inspectorate to be a key tool for defending workers' rights. You go and dismiss the Labour Inspectorate. We will therefore be here to claim for the workers, the unemployed, the young people and the young people of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u500	Thank you very much. Mr Constantine Frangoyannis, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, has the floor. You've got seven minutes, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u501	Mr President of Parliament, President of the Government, Ministers, Members of Parliament, with a sense of honour and responsibility, I am addressing today for the first time here in the Greek Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis warmly for the confidence he has shown in my face, giving me the responsibility of economic diplomacy and extroversion to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am here, working for over thirty years on the international development of the private sector, because I was associated with the Prime Minister's vision of the government's development agenda, with the aim of improving the economy, serving society, leaving a positive footprint on the lives of our people and thus laying the foundations for a new Greece. The vision I will serve is on a line: The creation of an extroverted Greece that aims to stimulate the Greek economy and improve the quality of life of each Greek and every Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a vision ambitious with a plannary pragmatic. But it is also a government priority. If, then, this is the vision I serve, what are our strategic goals? Quite simply, the exercise of effective economic diplomacy, the support of Greek exports and the expansion of the export base, the attraction of investments regardless of size, the modernisation of public administration structures to facilitate investors and exporters and, finally, the redefinition and international building of the image of extrovert Greece. Given the strategic direction I have mentioned, we will take the following actions. Firstly, we are upgrading and modernising economic diplomacy at bilateral and multilateral level. We are creating a single and enhanced extroversion body, merging all relevant agencies and services to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extroversion, with a view to better coordination, more efficient administration and the existence of a single, clear and strong voice. I am referring, of course, to the ENTERPRISE GREECE, the Export Credit Insurance Agency, our Permanent Representation to the OECD, the Office for Economic and Commercial Counsellor of Geneva and the full utilization of the structures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which extends to the whole network and external authorities to a hundred and twenty-seven embassies and generally consulates and fifty-nine economic and commercial affairs offices. Secondly, we create a real one stop shop, which will be close to businesses to solve problems, simplify procedures and facilitate investment, both Greek and foreign, in our country. We are, of course, going to work closely with ministries and bodies, so that with appropriate reforms in the national legislative and fiscal framework for the business, the right investment environment can be created. We will show the partners, the competent international organisations and the international business community the new environment with honesty, highlighting our country's new pro-investment perspective. Thirdly, we are putting an end to general activity in export promotion and we are now moving in a targeted way. We are setting the priorities of the markets and sectors of the economy, giving incentives, appropriate information and education, where necessary, together with tools for extroverting Greek businesses to offer products and services competitively at international level. Fourthly, we are drawing up policies for strengthening business schemes in the field of research and innovation, attracting prominent world leaders and, at the same time, promoting and supporting young people at the beginning - start up it is called - entrepreneurship. Fifthly, we take advantage of Greece's geographical position, which is one of our comparative advantages. It is one of the features that can and support the extroversion of the country. Our goal is to create the terms and conditions so that the Greek market in products, services and human resources can become an international business hub. We now live in a global village and technology enables us to meet the new challenges. Sixth, we are building the new upgraded image of extroverted Greece at international level, but also internally. We aim to recover the lost ground because of the protracted economic crisis, but also the bad, often twisted image of our country. Thus, we are already planning the architecture of the image of a modern extrovert country. Some call it national brand, but it's actually much more than that, because it's not about marketing, but it's about the country's position in the world. It is the architecture that consists of all the important elements of the present state of our country, all of which together compose what we want to be, a modern, multidimensional, single, effective voice and image of the new Greece in the global landscape. Of course, we will develop the closest possible cooperation with the Office of Prime Minister, the Ministries and the Ministers, the Secretary-General, the officials and officials of the public administration, as well as with social partners, bodies, associations of exporters, chambers and other expressions of civil society and business. Because we are allies to a common goal: to make Greece more extinct. I have to tell you that I have been acquainted with many of the officials and agencies since the first days of taking up my duties. I am impressed by the level of training, but above all by their positive attitude to the reforms that are to be made. Top, of course, an ally and an expression of our efforts will be, beyond all the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our ambassadors around the world. I believe we are all building a strong team that will work together. I hope that on this course, we will all stand together united and charming of an outward effort, whatever position we have, whatever role we can play. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I need 20 seconds, Mr. President. To close, let me make a little mention of 2021. Greece is going to celebrate the two hundred years since the establishment of the modern Greek state. This is a good opportunity to evaluate the past and to lay the foundations for tomorrow, to study the international challenges and opportunities, to make best use of them and to highlight the extrovert Greece through this new reality, to offer a new model of diplomacy that will become the bridge for the activation of business forces at all the lengths and backs of the earth, to transform the national capital that has been unfolded into a cradle of the new Greece, and so hopefully look at the future and, with renewed optimism, faith in ourselves and awareness of our potential, to upgrade, as we owe our country's position to the modern world. We are united, relying on our own powers, leaving behind the huge economic crisis, but which has not broken us, we are working with confidence for today and tomorrow. With respect to her history, the country is heading backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u502	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that on the basis of the list, Mr. Ploris is in turn. However, you have previously complained from the Opposition that after the New Democracy one from the Opposition must enter. To give, Mr. Pleari, the reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u503	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u504	So we will give Mrs Manolakou the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u505	The current government's Programmatic Declarations are cut and stitched on the needs for the profitability of capital and the armouring of the urban system, but not on the needs of the people. Bruce talk is typically challenging. But to know that he has no right of intervention in the labour movement. It is a matter of workers and not of every government. There are conditions for voting, trade unions, federations, labour centres which defend class powers and not the various bogeies and executives of the employer. As far as the electronic register is concerned, it is the fresco that you will hand it over to the employer to break what is moving, about the law and the rights of workers. You want a tomb silence. It won't pass. It is, of course, no coincidence that you have proposed a tax reduction for big business by eight points. However, nothing about low pensioners, while remaining the containers for pre-school education and problematic school rooms for people's children, which we do not know after the earthquake is what it will be like. We have heard plans and programming for cruises, ships, ports and TIAD. For seafarers, nothing. And yet, without them, it does not move and let them recently strike for the implementation of collective agreements on all ships and organic compositions based on modern needs, against logistical intransigence. But the farm on the unclaimed, the people's nutritional needs are also indebted to the fingernails of trade and processing monopolies, both for the expensive supplies and for the degrading producer prices paid to plant and livestock products. Why all of you refuse to set guaranteed prices on products and duty-free oil on farms, such as shipowners. But you have a goal, which is that of the European Union, namely the complete extermination of small and medium-sized farmers and farmers, for the quickest concentration and concentration of production and land in the jaws of processing and marketing, using cooperative schemes promoted by the European Union. At the same time, the raisins live and reign. The ELGA characterizes and does not compensate for natural disasters and diseases. Over the past few months, the damage to the flowering and fruiting stage has been great. But instead of corrections, for direct, rapid compensation for the whole disaster, we have heard the promotion of private insurance companies for agricultural production in the direction of the CAP 2020-2027, which the SYRIZA government has also signed. This means that private insurance is promoted for employees, but also for farmers. So you ensure new profit fields for capital and the broken ones will pay the work and the farms. But also the question of security you are focusing on suppression, not prevention. However, there is a need for measures to protect the workplace in order to return healthy, alive and irresponsible workers to their families. Unfortunately, the accidents in the ship repair zone, the factories, the port of Piraeus are close to becoming a natural phenomenon every day, because they cost time and money! These employers' crimes you don't recognize. That is why you have made sure that the Labour Inspectors' House is dismantled by abolishing its self-sufficiency to serve the profitability of employers and intensified the attack on workers. So you give air to the "COSCO" sails that, after a year of appealing to the public prosecutors, demanding the prosecution of the trade union president and board of directors, because they took the lead - as they should - in organising the great strike in June 2018. The association's crime for 'COSCO' was that it claimed a collective contract signature, permanent, stable work with full rights, integration into heavy and unhealthy, health and safety measures at the workplace. That's why workers must believe in their power. They paid the capitalist crisis and paid for capitalist development, which is not certain too. They therefore need to help reconstruct the labour movement in order not to find themselves unarmed against the new anti-government attacks and economic crises. The FCD fighters and will consistently be in front. With regard to the two hundred and four acres in Keratsini, we inform you that they are six hundred in total and we claim them all for the needs of the people with forced expropriation without consideration and to leave the factories that pollute the air we breathe. But the fall of Korydallo prisons was a request for decades with great struggles of the Corydal people and promises from many governments, which have remained promises. We are therefore voting against the continuation of anti-population policy, and we call on the people not to show tolerance to today's governmental anti-population policy or confidence in yesterday, but to believe in its own power for its benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u506	Thank you very much. Mr Athanasios Plearis from the New Democracy has the floor. I should like to inform you that after Mr. Ploris it is Mr. Logiadis from Mera25 and the sixth cycle will be completed, but the second day will be the day of discussion on the government's Programmatic Declarations. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 9:30. The first five speakers for tomorrow morning are Mr. Economou, Mrs. Folios, Mr. Sedetakis, Mr. Papachristopoulos and Mr. Tragakis. Here, Mr. Plori, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u507	With great awe after a number of years I come back to the Step of the House, and I certainly feel to some extent that this is my first time, even though I have been a number of years of MP. And I would like to congratulate everyone who is here and who has succeeded, but also congratulate everyone who participated in the ballots, because that is precisely democracy, participation in all the ballots. At the moment, I would like to see a number of issues and problems that have developed. You know what's going on? I heard Mr. Barka saying there would be tolerance and he wouldn't be lying. He'll say there's no truth. From me there will be no such courtesy. The presence of Mr. Xanthos and based on the Ministry of Health programme was New Democracy's legislation. Because the insurers have had access to the system since July and August 2014 with two ministerial decisions and you must now stop lying about this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u508	And then he came to the taxi!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Janakopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Janakopoulos doesn't know about this. The tax office came before those decisions came out. Then they stopped with the ministerial decisions. Learn it, Mr. Janakopoulos. You'll find out. You'll have time to find out. Now let's go further. But all this time, as a working lawyer, I experienced SYRIZA's policy, which was to pay 75% of my income in taxes and insurance contributions. Because that was politics, which broke down the middle class. And we had a prime minister who was disgraceful in the world who paid these taxes and these insurance contributions. This is where the Stepma was referring to big businessmen, to the tie movement, when all our colleagues, Mr. Janakopoulos, paid these insurance contributions. So the basic part to reduce taxes is attracting investment, as well, security in this place. And security has three levels. The first level is to have a law so that the police can do their job and arrest the criminals. SYRIZA, unfortunately, has felt all this time ideologically and personally much closer to those who held the molotovs and not to the police who caught the molotovs. And besides the fact that there was this framework, there should also be a law to punish the policeman. And here is the ruthless text that you have been asked to vote on. Because most of you do not know what you voted on that day before the elections. And that's the Criminal Code. These are now written. And I want a lawmaker from SYRIZA to explain why the legal reason in 187a for the terrorist acts has entered the following verse. It's in paragraph 4. Here's what you've done, gentlemen of SYRIZA. "Anyone who provokes the decision to participate in a specific terrorist organization or to carry out a specific terrorist act" – listen to you, Mr Kastanides - "by providing him with information or directions or recruits him...". This is the standardisation of the crime, which has so far been a major felony. He went with terrorism. So who's that? He who in Exarchia will find a child who has gone to the anarchy, makes aggressive moves and will say to him: "Come here, child, you will go to the "Fevers of Fire". He's being punished. He - for him they legislated - is punished. How much is she punished? Tell me, gentlemen of SYRIZA, how much he's punished, to tell you that you don't know what you voted for. Six months to two years and conditional five. You've made a flood of the one who recruits terrorists. Do you understand what you have voted for in this Criminal Code? Perhaps, you're either lying or you don't understand it, because the one who came out on parole the day before yesterday, came out with the arrangements you voted on and you had the nerve to make a statement. You may not know those who are here now Criminal law, but we who made criminal law know these provisions, and I have read you a specific provision, and I expect the next SYRIZA MEP who will stand up to say "yes, we have legislated to be a flood of terrorists, because that is just lawfully right". And you did the same to drug dealers, to pedophiles, to rapers, to the homicide that was always lifelong in Greece and made it ten years as a life. These are, therefore, policies that echo and ideological directions and are how everyone sees security. Because, for us, it is safe for the citizen to be able to sleep and to know that the state has made sure that they catch the man who is being criminalised, go to jail and serve his sentence. And yes, if he is conscientious, he has well, but you have brought a Criminal Code with a horizontal reduction in penalties everywhere and, respectively, with the condition of redundancies in one third. In other words, the "tatai" of edifice in Greek prisons is five years if there are no life. This is the building ceiling, but without the structures being created, for there to be justice. In the Programming Declarations, therefore, we have developed in particular what needs to be done and you will see and what needs to be changed in the Criminal Code. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because respect for the citizen begins with respect between us, I observe time, because some former SYRIZA ministers thought they were speaking here as ministers and spoke ten and eleven minutes. If you don't respect your colleagues, you don't respect the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u511	Thank you very much. Mr. George Logiadis from Mera25 has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all those who voted for Mera25 and myself personally, but also those who have not voted for us and to assure them that I will fight regardless of everyone. The Greek Parliament over the last ten years has been a commitment of the policies that our lenders have been attacking. Greece is in slavery and sanitation, with a vehicle of unbearable, unsustainable debt, imprisoned in directions that impose us on external players. In Greece, economic, fiscal and agricultural policy are being imposed on us, with disastrous results for all. In Europe, the policies of this European Union, instead of contributing to the reduction of inequalities, to convergence, to prosperity and to solidarity, lead precisely to the opposite effects, to austerity, to poverty, to the degradation of the European Union, to Euroscepticism, to the rise of the extreme right. The source of the problem cannot be interpreted in terms of north and south, as they want to convince us. At the moment in Europe there is a front attack by authoritarian forces on European society and acquired rights, with the consequences being felt in the social body, in each of the Member States, even within Germany. The crisis, which broke out in 2008 in Europe, with the first victim in Greece, a crisis that Yanis Varoufakis well analysed as a pan-European debt crisis and not as purely Greek has not yet been overcome and there is a great risk of a new, huge, pan-European crisis this time. We heard yesterday that debates on the Eurobond should be held. This will only be done by exerting great pressure on the core - see Germany - to accept this self-evidently in a monetary union: debt-sharing. Mera25, with a view to 2025, is struggling to create the conditions that will bring us to the path of growth, prosperity, dignity and humanity as quickly as possible. PART25 states that tax havens within and outside the European Union must be abolished because they lead to tax evasion, tax evasion and, finally, to enormous inequality, injustice and poverty. The tax rates within the European Union need to be harmonized, to combat bureaucracy, which leads to strife and corruption both in the European Union and in Greece. PART25 advocates that all these issues cannot be resolved by the local national parliaments, but only by means of a democratic, solidarity and a federal European environment, with a common currency which will serve the peoples and not the elites, a common budget, a common framework for rights. The Greek Parliament needs extroversion and parliamentary diplomacy at a European and global level, aimed at internationalising all these issues. This makes Mera25 the Greek arm of the pan-European democratic front DIEM25, the only one in Europe for a single political movement founded by Yanis Varoufakis. Now, as far as my special homeland, Crete and Heraklion is concerned, the main issue is the huge lack of infrastructure. The northern road axis of Crete and in general the entire road network of Crete must be upgraded immediately. Biological cleansing is needed everywhere and functioning properly. Also, they need marinas. Mer25 proposes the creation of a state-of-the-art rail network in Crete, which will link the island from the edge to the edge. Upgrade museums. For example, the museum of Messara in Crete is still closed. To be able to access all the sites. Electricity supersufficient. Crete is at all times at risk of sinking into the dark. We have too many power cuts and too many problems. PART25 is in favour of the use of renewable energy sources rather than the extraction of hydrocarbons, which will cause many environmental and safety problems in the region, while, on the other hand, we have the sustainable wealth of solar and wind energy. The primary sector, like other sectors of the economy, is unjustly burdened by overtaxation, suffering from a lack of infrastructure, strategy, planning and vision. The goal of Mera25 is to have self-sufficiency with top quality organic products, which are produced protecting the soil from unpunished and misuse of dangerous medicinal products and exclusion of mutated organisms. Also, existing, but also new innovative products with great added value, should have fair prices for a decent living of the farmer. The common agricultural policy, with subsidies, has led to the depreciation of farmers and destroyed the productive potential in the country, making us import and consume much lower quality products than we produce here. We're talking about Cretan food without even producing Cretan products. In the tertiary sector and, in particular, tourism, which contributes around 22% to the country's GDP, we aim to extend the tourist season with an annual and quality - not quantitative - tourism within a social consensus framework and to link it to the products of the primary sector and to the development lever of our culture. Mera25 stands against the airport in Kastelli Heraklion, which will have disastrous environmental consequences on the second most fertile plain of Crete. The burdens on the taxpayer's backs will be increased and the new airport will cost multiples of what the existing upgrade would cost. The flight time will increase due to the geographicality of the area, and even the cost for the traveler will be launched, with what this may mean for both the Cretans and the visitors of the island. Inevitably, the question arises as to what will become of Heraklion’s existing airport, if and when the new airport operates. In Crete the god of the gods, the Xenios Zeus, was born. Europe's idea was born here, and this is where European culture began with the oldest read writing, Linear B. We have the opportunity from the present world, but also from a pan-European context and the opportunity for our culture to show Europe the way it should go. Everyone expects us all, the whole world expects us, precisely because of the enormous weight of our culture, to do the impossible until now, to show in the light of our culture where to go. By taking new roads, innovative, without disobedient policies that have led to disastrous results so far in and out of Greece, with realistic and practicable proposals, we in Mera25 will go for the prosperity and dignity of Greeks and European citizens. It is a great honour to speak to the national Parliament. Thank you very much for listening to me and wishing our work for the good of the Greek people and the progress of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, too. The second day of discussion on the government's Programmatic Declarations has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-07-21-S1-commons.u514	With the consent of the House, the sitting for Monday, July 22nd, 2019, at 9.30pm, on the subject of the House's work is closed: continue the debate on the Government's Schedule Declarations and vote on the Parliament's vote of confidence in it, in accordance with the special agenda.
