ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Promoting essential gender equality, preventing and combating race violence - Regulations on the award of citizenship - Provisions on elections in Local Government - Other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 March 2019 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting in principle, on articles and on amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, I will give the floor for five minutes to the Minister for his amendments. Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present two amendments tabled by the Ministry of the Interior. If I'm not mistaken, they've reached your hands since yesterday. The first amendment, which is the general number 2044 - if I am not mistaken - contains two regulations. The first concerns the degree of liability of OTA officials. As you know, following the transfer of powers of the Financial Control Agency and of the Special Accounting Officers to the Financial Services of IATA I and B, it appears necessary to extend also to the officials of those services, the Local Government bodies, the provision in force as regards the status of public accountant and the measure of responsibility for those officials who have so far exercised those powers, the Financial Control Services. This regulation provides therefore that officials of the financial services of the LAGs and their legal persons, as well as officials carrying out tasks relating to the responsibilities of the financial services, are not to be considered as public accounting officers and are to be liable only for fraudulent and serious negligence. These employees have been charged with very important responsibilities. It is very important, therefore, and that is why we are going through this arrangement, so that they are not considered public accountable. This is the first regulation of this amendment. The second regulation - and, in our view, also important for the thirteen regions and their employees - concerns the possibility of retroactive decisions authorising overtime pay, if it relates to activities which could not have been planned and budgeted at the time of adoption of the relevant decisions. You know very well that there are powers in the regions which often have to do with exceptional circumstances, with extraordinary events. In this sense, it is important for workers to be able to receive night pay and overtime work. Even this has not been initially budgeted, when we talk about activities that have to do with snowstorm, for example, by dealing with natural disasters. It is important that we give them this possibility, and that is what we do with this regulation. These are the two arrangements for the relevant amendment. The second amendment concerns - and it is also relevant to the contents of the bill we are debating today, with its third part, to be precise - in the electoral arrangements and contains three rules. The first relates to the possibility of splitting the electoral divisions, that is to say, the partitioning of the electoral divisions. You know very well that the elections of 26 May 2019 for the first time include four simultaneous electoral procedures, which, of course, continue to maintain their own self-determination as discreet electoral procedures. There is a time-limit for these procedures to be carried out on the same day. In view of the fact that we have, for the first time in the elections, the simultaneous conduct of these four different boxes, and indeed all with a crusade, with the relevant amendment, the Secretary of State for the Interior, for reasons of facilitation of the voters, to proceed, if necessary - I repeat again that it is possible to anticipate the amendment - to take part in partitioning and in the creation of separate electorate so that the electorate can vote in two successive elections from two ballots each. This is how the electoral process for the smooth and smooth running of the elections is shielded. On the one hand, great delays are avoided, as would be the case if we had four ballots per election section and, on the other hand, - and this is very important for us - the legal representatives are facilitated, but also all the staff, by the workers involved in the election process, so that they can work on that day under conditions of the proper functioning of the whole system, without any unforeseen and intensified tensions. That's the first setup. The second regulation relates to the provision of the preference for civil servants under the law in case they have to complete the list of legal representatives. Let me clarify here, because I have seen some articles which unfortunately do not correspond to the reality, that the provision for the use of civil servants as judges in the electoral process is already provided by the Presidential Decree on electoral law as an alternative. I repeat that the only thing that changes with this regulation is that if we need to get into as legal representatives and civil servants priority is those civil servants who are graduates of legal schools, because we think there is much more relevance if you want to do the procedures provided for in the elections. It's, I think, a very sensible arrangement. And I repeat, this will happen in case it needs to. We want to be prepared so that we can use these public administration officials from the legal sector. The third regulation on this amendment concerns the abolition of the blockade between a Member and a candidate. Members can now be declared candidates and elected members of the European Parliament without having to resign beforehand. Obviously it is understandable that since a Member of the European Parliament is elected to the European elections, he cannot take over as a Member of the European Parliament unless he resigns...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u4	I say leave Kudura in both!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u5	Will you let me, Mrs. Vulture, present the amendment? Let me go and then you will have the opportunity to comment on what you want in your speech. But let me present the amendment, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u6	We know her. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u7	I tabled the amendment in good time for you to know it. I have also informed your colleagues. Your colleague can tell you too. But let me present the amendment, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u8	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you so much! It is clear, therefore, that once a Member of the European Parliament is elected to the European elections, he cannot take over as a Member of the European Parliament unless he has previously resigned from his parliamentary seat. You are well aware that Article 56 of the Constitution provides as a precondition for declaring certain categories of civil servants and officials as candidates their previous resignation from the public office, so that there is no slight suspicion, no doubt, if you like, that candidates may be affected by their duties until then. The same argument, obviously, also applies to those who are nominated as Members of the European Parliament. However, the status of the Member is substantially differentiated from that of the civil servant or staff member, since the exercise of the duties in question does not require political neutrality, but rather constitutes a political act. That is why the resignation of the Member from the post in which he was elected by popular vote differs from the resignation of a civil servant or official. That is why, as you know very well, this has already been abolished for the self-government elections. It is therefore abolished with this amendment and for the European elections, so that there is a homogeneity in the way the legislature is dealing with the relevant obstacles. After all, a corresponding regulation has not been introduced in most European Union countries. These are, Madam President, the two amendments which we tabled as the Ministry of the Interior in this bill, and I ask Members to support them in their vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is operating, twenty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the General School of Crysikos Ikaria and from the 57th General School of Athens, as well as thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the General Lyceum of Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The process is the known one. As soon as the second rapporteur's speech is completed, the system will be closed. So those who want, once the first rapporteur starts, can be listed, because the system will be opened. Time shall be determined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's 15 minutes and you have seven and a half minutes. Indeed, the bill is large and different, and perhaps time is not enough. So you have the ability to unify time if you want. However, there will also be a slight tolerance on the part of the Bureau in order to express your views thoroughly. I'm calling Mrs. Thalerite from SYRIZA. I put the fifteen minutes and we'll see how it turns out. Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues - since we must also use a sexist speech, I use a female genus - the government today introduces a draft law in this House, which guarantees essential equality, in addition to gender segregation and discrimination, in all areas of public, social and economic life, improves the quality of the regulations on naturalisation and the acquisition of citizenship, with a view to creating a legislative framework which is uniform, homogeneous, transparent and faster. It also regulates the topics of the electoral system and - following the amendment - electoral procedure, as well as facilities for the relationship between citizens and municipalities and provisions that improve the working position of OTA staff. So equality has the first reason in the draft law we are discussing today. Why have we chosen the title 'nominal equality'? Apart from being one of the three basic principles underlying the UN International Convention on the Elimination of All forms of discrimination against women, it is the framework and the obligation of the state and private bodies to create an appropriate environment that removes obstacles and restrictions on gender equality and requires laws and policies to take into account the gender dimension. What is this framework law, in other words? It comes to create the foundations and conditions for the implementation of the essential gender equality and for the real lifting of racial discrimination in all areas of public, social and economic life. Is this a legislative activism, as the colleague of the Officerial Response said, although we would have no problem having to legislate on requests from bodies? I think it has not been understood exactly what this framework law does. Let's see what he's doing. Why, then, do we need him? Because despite international and European initiatives and action programmes on gender equality, and despite the progress made both in Europe and in our country, in a number of areas of gender equality and improvement, we would say that women's position is not sufficient, but the data - and in quantitative and statistical terms - and the quality data - show us that despite the purely formal legal approach, this legal approach is not sufficient, that is to say, to achieve de facto equality between men and women. Here I quote some elements that the Director of OAED, Mr.Karamesini Maria, in an interview on 18 March 2019 at the radio station "Red" said: "The 75% total volume of unpaid work at home is done by women. Unemployment in women amounts to 23%, while men are 14%. For work of equal value, women are paid 78% of men's pay." In the House - and this is very indicative - 81.7% are men versus 18.3% who are women. All these elements and many others that we cannot mention because of lack of time indicate that it is necessary to strengthen policies and measures so that we can make the essential gender equality reality. What do we do? We come with this draft law and introduce an independent institutional framework for essential gender equality, where policies, measures and actions are provided for, ensuring that this equal treatment and equal opportunities are applied horizontally, across all areas of public policy, in education, social policy, health, employment and so on. What does that mean? That each Ministry is planning policies, actions and measures, and depending on a progress report, and sees from this design what it has finally achieved, what is, in other words, progress in eliminating discrimination on the basis of sex. Is that enough? Oh, no. They are created and - I would say - mechanisms are strengthened and the design and support and monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of these policies. Is this creation of mechanisms and structures a Syrian obsession? Of course not. Because in the world - not to say at European level - when you are planning, you are formulating policies, you are choosing tools and mechanisms on the basis of which you will implement these policies. So what's the bill coming to do? It creates these mechanisms at three levels of administration or - to be objective - it strengthens the existing ones. At central level, that is, it creates the Central Gender Equality Board, an advisory and advisory body at the Equality Secretariat, strengthens with responsibilities the Equality Secretariat and gives a more research role to the TBR. At regional and local level, it strengthens the responsibilities of the regional and municipal equality committees set up with Kallikrates, but, as we know, they did not work effectively. In the regions, apart from supporting them with additional responsibilities, it creates an autonomous Equality Office to give a staffing capacity so that they implement horizontal policies in the region, in regional policies, but also to strengthen the functioning of the Equality Committee in the region and, at the same time, it also creates Equality Offices in CEDEFOP and ENP, it implements policies that were launched with programmes. Secondly, it establishes the increase in the number of candidates per gender from 30% to 40% per constituency for the parliamentary elections. And I think that with legislative improvements we will be able to say that this measure is being implemented in the European elections as well. So what we are all talking about is a positive measure, that is, a measure, which is involved in the electoral process, in order to strengthen the presence of women in political life. Penalties for non-compliance with gender representation of 30% are also laid down, i.e. in the composition of management collective bodies. This is the difference, not that it comes to it, but to impose sanctions when it is not implemented. It also establishes and consolidates the network of structures to prevent and combat violence. In essence, it institutionalises the continuation of the sixty-two structures currently set up at a pan-Hellenic level, but it also allows for the creation of young people for psychosocial support, legal advice and the safe hospitality of women victims of racial violence and their children, i.e. consultancy centres, hospitality hostels and a universal SOS 24-hour service line. I will not go into how the gender is integrated into public policies and private life and employment. I will only mention two points. Public policies, for example, include this dimension in budgets. So it's not enough to plan and have measures, but you must have cost them. And you're appraising whether you've implemented this. Also, as far as the private sector is concerned, I will set an example, of the rewarding of businesses for the development of actions to promote essential gender equality. I will conclude with the first chapter on essential equality, saying that actions and measures include the provision of measures in relation to SMEs by laying down ethical rules, so that equality can be respected - I am referring to the codes of conduct drawn up by the National Broadcasting Council - so that we can contribute as much as possible to eliminating gender-based stereotypes in this area. I come to the second point on citizenship issues. An issue that has concerned us very strongly and recently with the Greek Parliament, as you will remember, with my incomplete attempt to falsify existing conditions that are internationally dominated, was this: what is citizenship and who are given citizenship. We have had enough of this in committee. I therefore think that, on the basis of this definition, the fact that 'nationality' is citizenship, so that citizenship is acquired and not created solely on the basis of gender, and on the basis of the laws that we have voted on for the acquisition of citizenship, because there have been significant malfunctions in the implementation of the provisions on naturalisation and the acquisition of citizenship - in fact, we have voted for the establishment of a Special Secretariat of Citizenship, in order to facilitate this process - I think we are coming with this draft law and doing three serious areas. One is the homogenisation, as I have said, of procedures. This is achieved by the reform of the naturalisation test, where in addition to the special language test candidates will answer and questions from a set of questions registered electronically. The special pan-Hellenic single test for the knowledge of the Greek language is established. You realize that we are trying to deal with any subjectivity. It is also very important that we place emphasis on vulnerable social groups, so that they can acquire citizenship without the procedure laid down, but with very strict criteria for determining the concept of a 'fair' group, namely who can be subject to these provisions. So our aim is, as far as we can, through this homogeneous, uniform and faster environment to reduce the number of administrative and judicial appeals, as well as the burden of administration and courts. I will not go any further into this. Two special arrangements are important. One is the special arrangements for resolving the issue of Roma citizenship, and the second is the arrangements for the acquisition of citizenship by the countries of the former Soviet Union. We are the rule of law and as the rule of law we must give citizenship to this particular category of persons, giving their right to personality. I come to the third part on local selfgovernment issues. Before I refer to the provisions of the bill, I would like to stress that this government is clear how it supports local government. In other words, it is a central option to support local government. This has been expressed - we would say, in particular, by increasing funding through new tools, such as the 'Philodimos', which we all know has given more than EUR 2 billion to Ottas, but also by thousands of other targeted new recruitments of permanent staff, as well as the attempt it is making to upgrade services to citizens. What are the main changes in terms of electoral procedures? Institutional changes improve the electoral system of "KLITHENI", on the basis of the demands made by the collective bodies of local government, i.e. the CEDEFOP and HNPE - the Minister of Interior had announced it at the CEDEFOP conference - but at the same time a number of provisions are also being amended to take account of the introduction of simple proportionality. The most important thing to stay is that the increase in the number of candidates in the lists by 50% compared to the total number of seats in the municipal council and the abolition of the head combinations for community councils, that is, the president of the community concerned, is the first cross-reference candidate, since his combination has received more than 50%. If there is no majority of this combination, one of the first two combinations may be elected indirectly by one of the two presidents through the local council. The second point is to facilitate the submission of candidacies by competent executives and with experience in local government, where through the lifting of time restrictions on candidacies they cannot do so. So what's actually going on? The inconsistency of the "CLINICAL" which provides for the resignation of eighteen months before the elections, as we know, is the reason why you realise that the law was passed eight months ago and thus enable officials who have experience and manage a position of responsibility to participate, have the right to vote in these self-government elections. The other point I would like to make concerns the staff of local government. We could classify them as follows, say that the first part of the arrangements relates to this isology and equality that must exist between local government and public sector officials, i.e. we have come here, we have passed laws relating to a change in disciplinary law, a change in the Staff Code, etc. We are therefore also applying these provisions to the Code of Status of Municipal and Community officials. We are also adopting what has been adopted again in the Public Act, namely incentives for the staff of self-government, especially for their education, but the system of selecting heads as it applies to the public. I think that we are also adopting a fair human resources management system with regulations relating to their professional development and mobility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second thing I would put it under a title is the restoration of the injustices we have in local government. I would say that the two provisions, which are very important, are part of the "Help at Home" programme in the permanent organic units of the municipalities and we all know that it will be done after a notice, etc. These people will come and work, i.e. they will be inside the corpus of local government. Another thing is the rehabilitation of school guards who had been transferred to hospitals. It's a fair restoration we've done with the municipal police officers who had been transferred to prisons. They now come to local government to meet the basic needs of local government as well. I now come to the issue of suspending recruitment before the elections to local government, where we know from the committees that opposition is obviously affected by their own practices, trying to find out that these recruitments are for election reasons. I would therefore like to stress - in order to listen to the Greek people too - that this is clearly about filling gaps resulting from needs. After all, we have recently adopted the law brought by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction to plan recruitment, which is why we are following this. Therefore, where there are vacancies and needs, especially for seasonal and critical positions for services, so that local government can function, because the period between the self-government elections and the establishment of the new municipal authorities is very great - you know that the establishment of the municipal authorities will take place on 1 September - we therefore have to regulate its operation. And that's why for fire protection services, lifeguards, children's stations, care for the elderly, cleanliness, we have to make these recruitments, given that we have a significant lack of personnel, that is, subsistence of OTAs due to the memorandum policies that have been implemented and that we have fortunately managed to "one to five" to do it "one to one". Therefore, in the same logic, it is also foreseen that these are appointments, recruitments to municipal return services and purely seasonal service needs. In addition, these are recruitments and appointments carried out on the basis of CSCE criteria and the notices have been published prior to the announcement of the self-government elections. We are talking here about the exclusion of 3K, because for the first time we all know that after many years we will finally have permanent staff in cleanliness, and we will have very positive consequences for not having accidents at work, etc. I'll leave the rest of my speech on my dentistry. I believe that this draft law resolves important issues also for the essential gender equality, where it finally lays the foundations for real equality, but also resolves issues and impairments of citizenship that the two laws that had been passed were not able to resolve. Thirdly, I think that it is coming to resolve the vital issues of local government by changing the electoral system and introducing the simple analogous system, so that both the electoral system and the electoral procedures - here I am referring to the amendment tabled by the Minister - can take place without the election process being carried out without being loaded to the citizens, i.e. tails, etc., but not to the judiciary, by ensuring that they can do their work very well. So this amendment by partitioning the electoral units helps the electoral process to be carried out in an excellent way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u12	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronics VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, forty-two students and students and fifteen teachers from the 1st High School Vyronas, as well as students from the program "ERASMUS". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will give you a time-consuming point again, since, before closing the list, thirty speakers had already been written. That means that we will need a five-hour, six-hour, only for speakers. I now call on Mr Voridis, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. In a bill dealing with so many issues, it would obviously be worth better luck than the Minister in his bill, because obviously in this bill, the major one, which was not mentioned by the majority rapporteur, was the 'Kounduras amendment'. That is what needs to be discussed. While usually, you know, the bills take the name of the minister who suggests them, that will remain because it now characterizes the whole, instead of the "Haritsis bill", as the "Koundura bill". So what is worth discussing and creating a number of issues - and that is what I shall begin with, because it is a very big issue on many levels - is the regulations of the amendment. What is this amendment doing? What does the government come up to in this House with this amendment? He says there's gonna be four elections together. What are these four elections? The European elections, the elections of regional government, the second degree of selfgovernment and the elections for the first degree of selfgovernment, but where separate polls exist for the local councils as well. These are the four elections. Since there are four elections, the following must be held: the elections of twenty-three thousand to be broken into two, that is, forty-six thousand, and that the elections are forty-four thousand, obviously there is also a question with the judges. There must therefore also be a provision for what will happen if the judicial representatives are not sufficient and therefore the arrangements to be made must be made. I'm holding the Kundura theme for later, 'cause that's the cherry on the cake. But let's stay on these. Why does all this need to be done? Because there is a basic choice that the government has already made. This wasn't all inevitably nor law-abiding. They go from government choices. What are government choices? Two. One decision is to have a separate ballot for local councils. In fact, the Minister made a word: 'Indiscriminate electoral procedures', he said, which directly puts us in the area of constitutional legitimacy of these procedures, the fourth, that is, the distinction between municipal and local, because it cannot be discreet, because that raises another question of self-government. But I leave this debate and say that this is a choice made by the government. It wasn't like that, you chose it. You also made a second choice for Mr Skourletis' day, which we had the pleasure of discussing again here at that time, when you chose, after recurring the time of the self-government elections, to move the time of the self-government elections from where they were originally in place and make him coincide with the European elections and not generally at that time, that is, not European elections, where, for example, you could choose to be the second round of the self-government elections in the European elections, but you chose to be the first round of the self-government elections along with the European elections, a first round which obviously has a higher electoral weight. Why? Because in the first round we have a count of crosses both in the region and in the municipality and in the local and European lists, so a volume of electoral work that needs to be done, and the second round of the local elections will only concern those who are candidates for regional elections, candidates who have not been able to take the '50%+1' in the first round. In any case, the second self-government round has no cross countings. It only has countings for the district managers, the two of all the ballots. You didn't think of all that. I wonder: Didn't you think about them or think about them and so you chose and there's a mind that he's doing? It proposes the election of Mr. Tsipras against, in fact, the excellence of the electoral process. Someone will say: Poor Opposition. Yeah? Listen, to be trustworthy. There is an easy way of not making the twenty-three thousand sections forty-six thousand and not entering the debate if there is to be a choice of civil servants with or without a degree of law, head or not, in order to provide additional legal representatives. The easiest way is that you put the first date on only the self-government elections in the first round, so we have three ballots in the way you have done, regional, municipal and local - it is comfortable - and in the second round of the self-government elections you put the European elections together. Easy, clean, there is no need for the twenty-three thousand to become forty-six, we do not need additional employees and we do not need a hundred million from the taxpayer. Because the twenty-three thousand if it is made forty-six thousand, it is twice as much as the cost of remuneration for legal representatives, commissions, plus all the cost. It is so easy and simple to do that, which one will ask why it should not be done. Why didn't the government think of this easy thing? None of them are ignorant in the front and rear government. They have experience of electoral processes and depths. And especially in the election cooking, they are excellent. Why? It's one reason. He's easy and simple. You are concerned about your election crash in the first round of self-government elections and because you do not want to go to the European elections, having been crushed in self-government with this political given, you change all the planning, you double the sections, you spend 100 million euros, you undermine the integrity of the process to serve the election. Well, to be informed, we don't collide in it. This is a decision you'll make yourself, with full awareness of what you're doing. Because that's what you're doing. Because you have opportunities to do the other, which is easy, simple and clean and you do not, because you see what comes, unless there is another thought, to put the parliamentary elections together somewhere. But yesterday we were disguised by the Prime Minister if we were to believe him. He won't find many in Greece who no longer believe him. That is a matter. So the statements do not make any difference. But if, in any case, you want a precedent of credibility that you really mean it and the elections are not going to happen, 'Behold Rhodes, behold and fuck!' Simple solution, first round, first Sunday, only self-government with three ballots, second Sunday, second round of self-government plus European elections. Easy, simple, clean, no cost. I come to the finest 'Kounduras amendment'. Now look what has to be done. It needs to change forty days, two months ago. We are about two months before the European elections. The pre-election period for the European elections begins for forty days. You are going to change the electoral law, which provides for this embroidery twenty days before the start of the election period. The House was reduced when the Minister presented the amendment. He reasonably did! For now, how can you justify, ladies and gentlemen, those who understand what the Minister has done, and who are deplorable in the sense of this? And it is deplorable, because electoral legislation, which has the logic - and, indeed, I would say to you that it is a logic that you should, above all, support - is that the Member of Parliament cannot be a candidate. That's what the electoral law said. Why did electoral legislation say that? It was said for reasons that you have invoked a hundred times on other issues, that is, because in reality, the competitiveness of the process cannot be eroded by a privilege that the Member has over his other candidates when we have a cross of preference and do not have a list, as is the case with the European elections, for reasons of equivalence of candidates. So you, who are the guardians of equality as left-wing, should be reluctant on this issue. However, now the need for polite shepherds, if Mrs Koundoura resigns from a Member, I think that another ANE is coming to Parliament. What's his name, I don't remember, but he's loyal to President Pano. He's loyal to President Kammenos, so we have a question if the government survives. And since the government has to survive, it's okay, let's change the electoral law twenty days before the start of the election period, because the election planning of Mr. Tsipras must be served! We call that institutional integrity. We call this respect for the competitiveness of the process. We say the Left is committed to the integrity of elections. In other words, the change in the electoral law for twenty days to match Mr Tsipras' plans, I am sorry, but it is things that are not happening anywhere! Only here, only in your time! Nowhere! No one changes the electoral law twenty days before the elections! Why? Because you have your problems. So, by the way, there is a way of satisfying personal problems here. You'd have a simple solution, wouldn't you? You could say to Mrs Kountoura: 'Don't go down'. It's not that terrible! Mrs Kundura could not stand and remain in Parliament. The Venice needle would not be lost if Mrs Kundura did not become a Member of the European Parliament. But no! And Mrs Kundura's grace, but also the government! And to have the one we want and it doesn't matter, "land fire is reduced", otherwise. That is the amendment and, unfortunately, Madam President, for its development, I have consumed most of my report. So briefly now, to the rest, because the truth is that this is the major one. You did it 'Koundura bill'. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u14	It's not like that. We'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u15	You have chosen to do this 'Koundura bill'. The bill has interesting things to counteract. But what else is this bill? It is a legislative act of the SYRIZA on gender equality issues. It is a dangerous activism, as this is also pointed out, because while it actually has nothing more than a positive discrimination measure that promotes gender equality, which we shall vote on - and that is the quota, that is the only concrete measure - there are other verbalisms, declarations, generics and bureaucratic structures. But be careful where the danger is. There is a risk now to the definitions themselves. I have pointed this out to you in committee, and the Women's Rights Association also points out exactly the point I made to you. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament also notes this. In other words, it is a question of gender equality policies, and it is another question of policies to eliminate discrimination because of sexual orientation or gender identity. They're not the same policies. They are perfectly legitimately followed both, but they are not identical and should not be confused. It's two different things. The Scientific Committee tells you that what you do in Article 2 with definitions creates further risks of confusion, because many of these definitions have already been incorporated into other regulatory texts - they are usually incorporating directives into other regulatory texts - and now there is a risk of different interpretations with the multiplicity of the definitions you use. In this specific point, I have pointed out that you cannot say that there are positive measures which are actions and decisions taken by the administration aimed at eliminating civil inequalities - that is positive discrimination - the quota is part of it - and at the same time say that in order to take action in case 2 of the previous article, namely those measures, genuine characteristics and situations relating to gender, sexual orientation and gender identity are taken into account! So the combination of the two provisions - Article 3(2) and Article 2 with the definition of positive measures - says that positive discrimination can be taken on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. For example, can the quota for transgender people be taken as a positive measure here? These are the confusions created by this type of definition. I repeat - not from us who can say that we have a conservative view on this issue - of links to women's rights that this is wrong. In fact, they tell you it's a setback. In other words, there are various regulations, which are obviously important. For me, one of the biggest issues that should be tackled in a very systematic way is the issue of domestic violence. I think it is a huge and capital issue. I think it is very concerned, that there is an unprecedented part and that too many women undergoing this violence do not even have a choice for themselves, because the choice of leaving from such a relationship, bond or marriage - now domestic violence is about both partners, not only those who are in marriage - can be about choices affecting their children, their children. Women who have no money and cannot leave, who, by having their children with them, cannot be supported, sitting and suffering an incredible suffering because of their vulnerability. There is a legal solution here - because more is not done - to institutions dealing with domestic violence, such as guest houses, lines and advisory centres. These are all things that work. This is simply a legal solution. I also have a reservation I have said, namely that perhaps the framework under which it is regulated is too heavy, costly and demanding. Ultimately - because this is the important one - this is one competence which lies in the municipalities, without even 1 euro being in place to support it. Yes, that is to say, it is legally settled, but in its operation, where the money is to be found, there is not a single fifty! So this remains a big issue and an empty one. The second thing you are doing - and that is a very heavy ideological one - is that you are making it easier to get citizenship. And while the basic criterion that should be laid down in all such decisions on citizenship is the determination of the applicant's strong link with the State from which he wants to take citizenship, there are regulations that are within the limits of the outraged state. I don't have time to talk about it, maybe later. I'll just say two things that I find more confusing. Firstly, there is the possibility of the dead being given citizenship. The dead! So, because I see you excite yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u16	We've been through it three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u17	What can we do? We're talking about it because you haven't changed it. Once you change it, we'll stop talking about it. Anyone who wishes to identify the Greek nationality of the same person or person who died will therefore determine the nationality of a deceased person - to determine the nationality of which the applicant had a legitimate interest. I mean, what? He passed away. He has to take citizenship so I can get citizenship too. This is the one with a legitimate interest. Let's go give citizenship to the dead. And I asked the Minister how many generations back you say? Fifteen? How many generations back? To find someone who once had a distant anion who had the Greek citizenship. So we must now go now to ask all these detainees to take citizenship. No restriction. And, in fact, how can that be proved? Listen. Indirect reference to censorship or demographic events. Not even with the registry office, not even with the logbook. Somewhere in a document mention that there is something from a registry and a brigade. I'm subtracting to the layout. I think it's indifferent and unique. I don't think anyone could imagine it. It is the "first time left" and in citizenship. The second, which is also important for citizenship, is for someone who has citizenship, there comes a public service that justifies the nationality of a person - it is not easy for that, that is, the public service to come to question it - and - be careful! - the Minister for the Interior must respond with the agreement of the Council of Integration. A nine-month period shall be allowed to elapse by the Council of citizenship and the Minister of the Interior and, if not within nine months, the objections of the administration shall be rejected. Therefore, from inertia and from the creature of law he maintains his nationality. Not to be considered and there is not enough time, so through inertia they will get citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u18	Who said not to be examined?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u19	I'm coming to the other part. We are voting against all the relevant electoral procedures because they relate to a simple analogue. I have said that we are not very concerned about this issue, because once we are elected, we will abolish the simple analogue and therefore all of this, 'but I change again and we do and sew...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u20	Ann!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u21	When, it's not if. That's what was decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Voridis, you have covered both my second and my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u23	You're right. Will you give me two minutes to close?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u24	Close, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. And I come to the last one which is the arrangements - to say it elegantly, do not use the Ottoman term - the SYRIZA arrangements. Most of all, they have decided to abolish the ban on pre-election recruitment in the run-up to recruitment. The Minister will then tell you: 'But the contest has been done'. Bravo! And who told you, my dear colleague, that the ban was about the time of the competition? Because if the arrangement wanted that, you know what he'd say? He'd say there'd be no competitions during the election period. The layout doesn't say that. The provision says that no recruitment will take place during the election period. And why shouldn't they be hired? To avoid mistaken the result, the thought and judgment of the electorate. For it is the time of the conclusion of the contract of employment that matters to the worker, not the tender. He says, "But what's going to happen? There are urgent needs.' Yes, sir. I therefore proposed that you make an exception to specific specialities, for which there are urgent needs, as has been done in the past. Of course not. So there's an election call. I think this bill is the epitome of the Syrian policy on a number of issues. Legislative activism, contempt for the institutions to serve small election interests, recruitments and arrangements for election and, of course, a serious ideological issue - contempt for the sacred institution of citizenship and the way in which it should be granted. Of course, we are voting out the bill with dedication.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u26	Twenty-seven minutes, Mr. Voridis. I note it here and for the next President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Democracy Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation, twenty-five students and students and an attendant of the Hatzbei School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance, Mrs Christophilopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is a pity that the debate on this bill with its badness and goodness, with its positive and negative points, is overshadowed by the raw and cynical transaction contained in the Tsipras amendment. And no, Mr Voridis, it's not a Kundura amendment. It's an amendment to the Haritsis bill. Excuse me, so are some people a little more equal than others? Why? Why do we want to maintain a virtually declared SYRIZA, a little former ANEL, a little extreme right or caramanlic right? Is that why we change the electoral law just before the election season begins? Is that an institutional consequence? Is that an honor to the institutions? This is a raw and cynical transaction, it is a take - give with Mrs Kouduras, perhaps Mr Danellis, and I don't know who else she has. He was voting now. Vote for the nationally harmful Prespecies Agreement, vote for what we bring you here to be declared, and here, don't worry, you'll have your candidacy on the Eurobond guaranteed. That's what you bring, Minister, that's what the Prime Minister gives you and that's what you bring. Furthermore, to put myself on the other side of the amendment, and it seems reasonable - because there must be serious procedures and, of course, the intergroup committee must deal with all the issues - to promote the Legal Affairs Committee as civil servants, on the other hand, explain to me why the electoral divisions must be broken down and cannot be multiplied. The New Democracy suggests another solution. I suggest to you this: why not multiply the departments, so that the legal clubs in the country, who raise their objections, are covered, because we will have fewer electors per election station. So there will be an unavoidable procedure, without these stunts and terminations which refer to the fact that two or two polls easily become three or two polls, if the leader, the leader, the "principal", the charismatic" and various other things, Prime Minister, who brings these amendments of raw and cynical intervention, decides, as he said, to be "fruitful" and to vote in May? This brings to a bill in which there could be debate and conflicts and contradictions between the parties in order to create a fruitful debate. Some of the articles - you will see it, you have seen it in committee too - we as a Change Movement will vote for them, but the debate is already turning elsewhere. And already the important thing for us, the top theme of gender equality, comes into second degree, because we are talking about what? We're talking about these terrains. Because the bitter glass of defeat will drink it all, no matter what termipi. You don't go splitting, you don't go doing any more, the defeat will come and it'll be overwhelming. Now, of course, the bill itself - and we have told you in committee - includes other provisions of the last minute. I begin with those that are the last part of the bill: 'These are improvements to 'CLISTEN'', you told us. You told us the mayors asked for them, and you accepted them. But that is exactly what proves that "KLITHENIS" was not just a bad piece of legislation of a system that would cause chaos to self-government, but "KLITHENIS" was a gonatogram, Mr. Minister, because you have now brought a number of amendments, both legal and substantive, since it was not exactly the draft law, which your predecessor, Mr. Skourletis, carried out and for which the whole world of self-government is across the street. And I would like Mrs Thalerite to tell me one thing about self-government resources nowadays. And don't look at me, too, the side of the Officerial Reform, because never has any of the bills of self-government reform brought by PASOK been passed by the New Democracy. But then, of course, there's a posteriori consensus. But since we have said these, unfortunately, very difficult, which demonstrates that you are not respecting the institutions, but all you care about is the communication strategy and how you go to elections better - you think - the essential issues you leave behind. And the essential issues are the issues of everyday life and the issues of great values, which govern how we experience this everyday life. And I come to the big and top issue of gender equality. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the country has a constitutional and legal armour - and this is recognised by the bill - on gender equality issues. It is a full institutional framework from constitutional regulations - and not just Article 4 - the legislation of family law, the two - laws on employment, the laws on violence, ultimately the Istanbul Convention, the last legislation. So we do not lack legal equality. We lack equality in practice. And since most of the articles in these articles of equality are things that you say - and you say - work in the legal order, for example, the integration of the gender dimension, main streaming, the question is how to do better, to do that in practice. I have three points to make: The first is that, in fact, two bodies who did not come to the consultation have pointed out this, and it was a pity that you did not consult before - the definitions of the bill may be different from the definitions contained in the other legislations that exist. So there comes a matter of legal ambiguity or multiple legal definitions. The second question again is that this influx of legislation can also have other kinds of overlapping and problems. So he wants us to go to codification sometime. That is what I think is a next step, codification. Secondly, there are the hostels who exist. You strengthen them, you give them to self-government. The same in women's advisory centres. It is a matter of resources, however, and it is also a matter of staffing. And you know very well that it is not just a requirement of the law to transfer powers with resources, it is a constitutional requirement and it is also a practice in terms of OTA. And there is also the case law of the Council of State which says that no competence can be transferred without the relevant resources. So here - and rightly so - your own administration points out that in order for the hostels to function, we need to give the tools to self-government to serve both the hostels and the equality advisory centres. Look, the woman who is harassed at her work and who has trouble telling it, because she fears that she will lose her job or face deterioration, the woman who does not find a job, is the first person who is fired or fired and still in the precinct, we have to see how in practice we will help her. And it is not only enough to legislate on what we are legislating. The whole political system needs vigilance, not only of the women's potential of the parties to the constitutional arch, but also beyond that, in society, in the institutions. It is therefore necessary - and beforehand - to consult and now - for social dialogue. It takes a very serious effort. Next item, Art. 16. No, Minister! Oh, no! Since the law then, Vaso Papandreou, for 1/3 on each council, says it must be 1/3 women, it is obviously illegal for any formation of the board, without having one/3 women. You don't have to repeat it! And, secondly, I asked the committee to explain why you excluded the Ministry of National Defence from this, while the original Law of 2000 did not exclude it. I could see other improvements, perhaps, if you had something to suggest, but I do not see any improvement in this article. On the contrary, we see a regression in Article 16. The quota is the big 'yes', because from 33.3% we go to 40%. And, of course, we support it. And I conclude by saying, as far as equality is concerned, that it would be a good thing - as I have said before - to monitor implementation. I said that to the committee. For the Committee on Equality of Parliament and the Committee on Civil Liberties, it would be a good thing - and the President here too - to have certain parliamentary procedures so that, after a period of time - and before and after the elections - this can be done as a parliamentary procedure, there can be a follow-up to these equality plans from this House, so that politically the question of equality can be raised on the agenda. I now come to an issue on which we initially intended to agree on several points relating to citizenship, Minister, but unfortunately this is a little mixed up. Look, in addition to the improvement you have brought to the Roma issue - and it is an improvement and there is some specialisation - I want to point out the fact that - I have listened to Mrs Theleritis and Mr Voridis, and we both say that here we are facilitating naturalisation, Mr Voridis negatively, Mrs Theleritis positively - it is clear where we are. But I will tell you: are you aware that what you brought, is much delaying the procedures, or are you cheating on us? What's going on with both of these? Because, yes, the improvements you have brought, Minister, to the process of naturalisation are improvements in the constitutionality of the provision and the relevant ministerial decision, but to see the very process you have put in. The process itself means slowing down. It's just math. Today's interview with the Committee on Culture, Ladies and gentlemen, takes about half an hour - the act says - per consideration. If we go to what you suggest, which is the examination of the Greek language, we go in at least two hours. It's a process that's at least two hours! So where the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media is currently looking at eight to ten applicants, it is going to look at the corresponding period of two to three applicants. So, we're talking about a serious slowdown. And who will conduct the examination? The Committee on Culture? With what specialization and guarantees? What you are doing - I am sorry to say - is the Syrian version of the extreme right: 'You will never be Greek', because it is clear that there will be delays. Also, for those who should take the B1 to come ready, the next tests are scheduled for May and the deadline for applying expires in a few days. There are fourteen examination centres throughout the country, and there is a paradox, ladies and gentlemen. Have you asked how many can they be served by these centres and how many will they be able to give tests? There are lessons to learn the language and they will also open tutoring for it. When will you be able to do this hybrid of Hellenism between A1 and B1 to carry out tests? What do the competent bodies say? Have you come to an understanding? As far as the older people and the elderly are concerned, you have been doing them a favour and you are going down to A2 level, that is to say, proving social inclusion for those who live in the country for a long time. If anyone considers this lenient treatment desirable and is seventy years old today, ladies and gentlemen, he will give 550 euros paradox and get citizenship around eighty years. Well, he'll have something to wait for in his life. As far as the second point is concerned, rejecting the application in the event of absence, there is nothing to change. I'm sorry, Minister, but your legal improvement is a mockery. To reach agreement, we tell you that we do not believe that anyone who has no connections with that country must have citizenship. Clean things. However, those who have applied and live in Greece a great deal longer than anticipated are entitled to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need your tolerance for a while too. So the law gives this right to foreigners. However, if they are absent at specific intervals, after which, while they are traded with the administration, they cannot be naturalized. I'm telling you, what you're doing is very worrying and annoying. On the one hand, you are slowing down procedures and on the other hand, you are persecuting the victims of delays. There are people, Minister, who applied in 2013 and are still waiting. Now you say that if this man went to work for two years in Germany, for a long time, his request will be rejected. Excuse me, that's sadistic and inhuman. And that is what the bodies in the committee have told you. Please change these provisions warmly. Because it is a very recent story - you know - of the Ministry's conflict with internationally recognized writer Gazmend Kaplani. And I don't want to think, Minister, that your insistence is related to the need to justify the Ministry's attitude to a man who has honoured Greek letters and found himself abroad for that very reason. If tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, there is another Kaplani, he or she will know that their wings are cut off, that he cannot dream of foreign universities, can't do postgraduate or anything else and can't dream of an international career. These are incomprehensible things! Change them! Finally, because I have referred to the 'CLISTENS' regulations, I would like you to allow me to refer very carefully - and it makes me astonishing that the Qualification has not been placed on this issue, but also on the famous National Electoral Network of Internet Monitoring. We have also talked to you in committee, Minister. If this Internet and online and social media monitoring committee is not set up - not as you anticipate, purely state-controlled and controlled by the government - as we must - because we are talking about an election period and the creation of the European Commission is precisely about elections - a state-owned conference is being set up to monitor and control political speech and election activity. We therefore call on you to withdraw it or change it, in any case, because you will be accused - as you are accused of - of manipulating the electoral process. And finally, with regard to recruitment and arrangements, we recognize the fact that firefighters or lifeguards are seasonal needs, but we invite you to become more specific in the respective arrangements, so that you yourself can lift what you have submitted to you, that we are accusing you, on some basis, of bringing last minute arrangements and recruitment arrangements shortly before the election process. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the outset, unfortunately despite some positive arrangements that this bill has in particular on issues of gender equality, we are obliged to vote against strongly, protest and denounce the Tsipras amendment on trade. And, of course, we hold back and stay in the'residents' for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that thirty-eight speakers have been written. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulos for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. This is a bill that includes all SYRIZA's ideas. Probably not all of them. There's more. With those who have spoken in the last few days, who had been watching the videos from the committees, I was told that they were scared. They thought that this was not the case in the Greek Parliament, the so ruthless alteration of the Greek population. I was compelled to show them on the cell phone, from the site of the House, some of the articles to be persuaded. I was told: "It is not possible for Greek MPs to vote for such things, to vote for laws for the alteration of the Greek nation." I would like to say to them, 'And yet this is happening too.' I am, however, starting at the beginning of the gender equality bill. Gender equality is guaranteed by both the Constitution and the laws of the state. So you did not need to constantly legislate about so - called gender equality, if, of course, we had to deal with both sexes, man and woman. But you do not legislate about these two sexes, which nature has so harmoniously built. Legislate about the sexes you have introduced in recent years, which do not approve of nature. We do not approve of them either. You want to make a humane society, without a family, without a homeland, without a religion, and of course - it seems from this bill - without a gender. You want to make a mass of people, which will surely be governed better than those who want to rule us. So we see that in the first articles you fill all committees and subcommittees throughout Greece, regions, municipalities, etc. All the structures of the state are filling up committees, which, allegedly, will promote gender equality. We see the gender dimension, as you say it, and the budget. Some articles are completely inappropriate, such as Article 11, where we cannot understand what you want to say. We've been through the committees. Article 12 states that gender mainstreaming is also compulsory in drawing up administrative documents. We can't figure out what you're talking about either. All the documents, the state, so far - as far as we know, unless you know any other documents you - spoke to the sex that they were addressing, to the "master" to the "Miss". We cannot understand what you are legislating with this article. You say in Article 15 about the quota of women on the lists. We have said so in committee too. This article does not favour women. It's against women. You cannot impose through the quota and through laws some ladies should deal with politics, the common ones. When you impose it on them, all you do to the combination leaders is desperately looking to find female candidates. So they download irrelevant ladies - their cousins, their aunts - just to fill the ballots. And this puts the candidates themselves at a disadvantage, which you are supposed to want to favour. Of course, with the SYRIZA vote, we see that in future you will obviously also legislate on other quotas, because we have seen inside Afghans, gays and various others, which you have had for a long time. We can imagine, then, that in some next bill, if you are - and I despise - you will shortly put a quota for illegal immigrants. It's the next step. Every ballot must also have foreigners within the respective quota. With these moves you make and the Greekizations we will say in the next section of the bill, you want to attract those voters whom you consider to be "our clientele", because that is how you operate in every piece of legislation. And not only you, but the previous ones too. You split your clientele and say: 'Now we will favour our public, if we take the vote'. You are predators of the vote, because you do not legislate according to the nation's interest, but according to the forthcoming elections. Every government legislates like that. So what's your audience? Something gay, transsexual, some illegal immigrants you're Hellenizing. You think that by increasing the quota for women, you will also win the women's audience. You're making a big mistake. And in Article 17 all that gender equality you want to promote it in schools too. Article 17 is extremely dangerous because - I say it again - we are not talking about gender equality and we mean a man - a woman. I stress it for the friends who see us from the Parliament's channel, because we only have a step there. We're talking about all the sexes you've invented and they're nothing but nature. And it says here: Promote gender equality within the educational process, as the area of education is a privileged field to cultivate a strong progressive perception of the elimination of all kinds of inequalities. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? It's what you legislate with your ideas. And of course, the left-wing teachers and teachers, who get 80% and 90% in the elections, will have a party with all these legislations and all these circulars you're sending them all the time. I have kids at school, too. And every time I think you've finished it, you've got more to do with the national festivities that you're abolishing the patriotic songs, with the events where other school festivities are introduced. Every year we see others who have to do with your ideology. You say in Article 18 about gender mainstreaming into public health. I don't understand what you mean here. Really! But we could say something else here in the health field. We could say that they have all prenatal examinations free of charge Greek women - I stress that if I am against your laws - future mothers, have free delivery. Because the article speaks of health, there see equality! At the moment, Greek mothers and future mothers are not equal to the structures of the state, because every illegal immigrant comes in who says nothing and makes all checks free of charge. You'll see them in labels in these hospitals. Go to a public hospital. For illegal immigrants everything is free and goes to Greek mother and she has to go to a private hospital, because in the state they give her a series after months. This is inequality against not women, but against Greek women. Because you hate every national, you hate every Greek and you prove it. So, since you say about health, we say this: everything about the Greek mother is free even when the child is born - and the pediatricians and nurseries - so that the Greek mother can work. And I stress that. Instead, everything is free of charge for illegal immigrants. The Greek mother - because that is what we are talking about, she is in DNA, at the core of our ideology - she is forced to work two and three jobs to get through. Also, new Greek girls who want to nurse are forced to go home because they don't have the money. But all this does not affect you in your statutes. You are interested in having the illegal immigrants free of charge, free of charge light, water, telephone, as well as a prepaid card with 400 euros to go shopping for every illegal immigrant and not work. And when they see the Greek get up at 6:00 in the morning to go to work, they'll make fun of him, because they've never worked since you brought them into our country. The only work the illegal immigrants offer in our homeland is crime in every form, from robbery, rape, murder. This is the only work provided by illegal immigrants in our miserable homeland. And, of course, the stranger who gets up in the morning in peace to drink his coffee and go to the supermarket to shop for free, laughs at the Greek who gets up at 6.00 in the morning to go out to make the 380 and 400 euros. We Greeks only have obligations and, of course, only rights. Rights and rights! You've been here for five years and you've only voted for rights for illegal immigrants. Some rights for the Greeks, for the new Greeks who want to childbirth, I've never seen you legislate. And since you're so spectacular of Islam - why are you there - see the position that the woman has before you bring them in here. Look at the position of the woman in Islam. Because you have brought it all so that with the supposed gender equality you also go through citizenship. So, in the second part, which is to facilitate the performance of citizenship - where all the Greek people are frightened - I will begin with an American expression, since you are so Americans in the New Democracy - you have been and remain - and you left-wing Americans are the new friends of the Americans. I will answer you with an expression they used in a previous election campaign, paraphrasing it: 'It is the demographic, stupid'. "It is the demographic, idiot, that will destroy our country." "It is the demographic, stupid, that will destroy the social and national fabric of our country." That is the problem we need to look at. And demographics are not solved by any certification, with no incorporation of illegal immigrants into our country. No matter how much you're trying to make them Greek, they don't. The PASOK rapporteur said so before. He said, use the right-wing expression. It's not right-wing. It's nature. You're born Greek, you're not. Do you know what citizenship means? Straight and genus, that's where it comes from. So what does that mean? That it is not the descendants of Mongols and all Negroes, the Asians and Nigerians that you bring to become Greeks with a test. Don't you understand? Everything about illegal immigrants! I was talking to a lady who should normally receive a widow's pension and, of course, she does not receive anything. Her husband has also passed away, and the particular lady - like all the ladies - cannot receive any pension, even though they have paid for their contributions for so many years. You open the ferry door to the abundance of Hellenism with everything you do. In Article 47, those who are now naturalized Greeks with the indigenous Greeks are treated equally in the recruitment for the public. There is no distinction, but there is no distinction in favour of the Greeks. That is, even in the public sector, the Nigerian who gave a test and a EUR 550 test, will be able to recruit normally. PASOK, in fact, wants to speed up all these procedures, from what he has told us, because you - he says - are doing too late. How much faster to do than a simple test? It's too many articles. I would like to say a little bit about the New Democracy, because the New Democracy is nothing different in this policy with you. Mr Vorides told the committee that we could discuss this question of citizenship if you had brought it a little differently. It was just a pretext for you in the New Democracy to vote against and not to be exposed to the eyes of your voters. Unless you said something else. The New Democracy points out in every way - and indeed with its Chief - that it will pay subsidisation to illegal immigrants born in our country. He says it every week. I'm watching Mr. Mitsotakis. So he says: "We will give EUR 2 000 to every child born in Greece". I repeat the video and says: "To every child born in Greece". Next week he says: "Every child born in Greece". Have you guys in the New Democracy seen what children are born in Greece? Have you seen the percentage of Greeks in relation to the children of illegal immigrants, where do you want to subdue them with two grand? No, of course not. And if you've seen it, you're so liberal that you don't care. You are interested in giving birth to anyone who comes home, even if he is not Greek. So we are against the New Democracy that feeds, which subsidises the births of illegal immigrants. Since birth of illegal immigrants in our home country, this is what New Democracy tells us, "I will subsidise illegal immigrants to give birth to our home country, because I serve capital and I want labour". The Left and the Right are the same. You all serve the same. Even the JRC. Mr. Mitsotakis was found in Thrace last week. And what did he have to say about everything that's going on? That he'll recommend - he says - a Muslim council in my capacity as Prime Minister. That is what we need in Greece, then, the Muslim Council of Ministers. He said other things. I do not now read his statement. I can testify to her later in the Minutes, although she's on the Internet. He said the mother tongue in Pomacian Thrace is Turkish and we should learn it in bilingual schools. What we are striving for is not to be done, the New Democracy said it would apply them immediately when it takes power. Now that I said about bilinguals, you've filled the schools with children of illegal immigrants. I saw it in Samos and elsewhere. And the parents react. And, of course, any parents who react, you take care of them in justice. You have the way now. Check justice, too. So schools have been filled with children of illegal immigrants, who are delaying learning and outbreaks, since they come from where they live, from hot spots. Apart from that, these people do not want to integrate themselves into the western way of life. They come to Europe, they come to Greece to change it. That's why they want to have the sharia, have their own laws. What is in Islam is that they want to force it in Europe too. They are not coming to integrate into Europe. They come to change Europe, they come to do a Muslim Europe, and that is why the whole world is reacting. So what scares you is the rise - as you call it - of the extreme right. It's too many articles. I'll speak in dentistry, too. It is, however, some articles -104 to 107 - in which you say: The Ministry's staff are structured in the field of e-government. Anyway, so that we don't get too far, this is a committee you're building, which will cost 128,000 euros a year, to control the internet, to control what's written and what's on the Internet. We have said so in committee too. You don't have to do all this. The downfall of the internet against what is disturbing you, against what is scaring you, against the danger - as you think it - of what you are planning to do in Greece and Europe exists. The suffocation of over five hundred thousand Golden Dawn friends is a reality, it is a given one. I also gave the committee my cell phone to unlock it and see if you can use it as Panagiotis Ilioopoulos. You won't be able to. We're excluded from everywhere. You've got us swept from all the means of the whole Greek range. You've got us swept out of the local media. You've excluded us from the internet too. It's all right, though. Anyone who wants to know, whoever wants to hear our positions, can do it. He'll figure out how to do it. He will find the way through Golden Dawn to strike this system that promotes these new morals, this policy of globalisation. He'll be found. When nature wants to react, it can find the gap and use it and react, because Golden Dawn is a welfare of nature in front of what comes. It doesn't want nature to happen all the things you're planning to do, this globalisation, this pulp and the world to react. So you're the fascists. You're blocking us from everywhere. So you're the biggest racist against the Greeks, of course. We bring the light, we bring the justice, we bring the nemesis, we bring the golden dawn of Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Heliopoulou, as you can see, no one is sneezing you. Despite the ethics rule, so you preach hate and watch children.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, I come to the microphone a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u32	You won't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u33	No, I want to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u34	I don't have a dialogue with you. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u35	I don't want to have a dialogue either. I was specific in my speech, Madam President. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how this House operates, twenty-five students and students and four teachers - attendants of the Gymnasium and the Liberation Orders of the Leipzig and the 2nd Gymnasium of Zephyri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Sit down and listen to the next speaker, so you won't stay with the wrong impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, I said that the only voice we have is through the Greek Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u38	Leave it now, Mr. Heliopoulou. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u39	..and here you swell us with all these regulations you've made and rule out the third political power with the various regulations and anti-racist laws. We'll say what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u40	Okay. Please have the floor by the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis. Come quick enough for the kids to hear something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today's bill and, above all, its first part of the three, which speaks of promoting essential gender equality, is a typical example of SYRIZA's political tactics. In order to serve his election purposes, he is projected as proof of the social profile of SYRIZA and is, of course, exploited in the construction of the well-known fake bipolar scenery. It is a fake bipolarism because, while it concerns political forces in urban areas, which are in the service of the capitalist system and are managed alternately, these powers are being attempted - in which, even now, it has been taken lately - by Members of Parliament, it is a metro stop - to appear quickly as progress and maintenance, aimed at engaging populist forces at the limits of anti-grass policy, which is always being applied, firmly, regardless of the driver who holds the wheel of government power. The smuggling, however, Minister and Minister, of the issue of gender equality, on the one hand, through the awarding of citizenship, on the other hand, with dispersed arrangements for elections to local government or for a multitude of responsibilities of the Ministry of the Interior, in a bill, reveals - as we do - the value that SYRIZA ultimately attaches to the issue of women's equality. As a framework law for women's equality, the government, which, in the context of the European Union's practice on such important social issues, is finally exhausted, or in the establishment of institutions and committees, where, of course, the various NGOs have a permanent stadium and in the formulation of proclamatory principles - positive at times, but usually without similar support to practical measures - or to wishing for, for example, self-regulation contracts and self-regulation rules for the promotion, for example, of women's equality by the media, namely television channels, which, every night, as we know, promote women's personality - along with male, of course - on "Power of love" or "Next top model". On the other hand, the public and state ERT - we stress - literally buried the great gathering of the Federation of Women of Greece, OGE, which is the most massive and militant women's organization, held in Athens and other cities on March 8th, "Woman's Day". Because, you know, the declaration on equal participation of women in work is a good one, but, in practice, this right of women - like any man - is being cancelled, first of all, in the capitalist reality of unemployment, while for women it is also prevented by the heavy role played at home. And of course - first of all, we are saying this - there is a need for women to be involved in social action outside the limited limits of the family, with its involvement in politics and, above all, in the labour and the people's movement. But that is why, as life shows, no matter how helpful, the quotas for women's participation laid down from time to time, as in today's bill, are not enough. But here, as a JRC, we owe an explanation and an explanation. When the JRC refers to women's disparity, it does not speak either in general, nor in classic terms. It does not speak, like the rest of urban parties, of a completely abstract, theoretical notion of women, but it means very specifically of women from working and people's families and of young people's girls living on their side, double suppression and exploitation and class, but also of their branch, racial. Because despite the fact that typically women's inequality has been abolished, this can be well and is hiding under the flexible working relationships that break into women, while there are little times when this inequality is practically true even for wages or wages. How, then, does capitalism not take advantage of this disparity when it leads to cheaper work and thus becomes a valuable source and additional gain for capital? That is why women's disparity is timeless and manifests itself in all the exploitive social systems, so why it is not tackled radically even in capitalism! Because her root is as deep as class exploitation. If this is the case, then more easily will the women of the people see that stereotypes are not the primary causes of their own inequality, as they are sucked every day by the "pads" of the system, but that these unacceptable stereotypes are the same derivatives and reflections of the unequal position of the woman in capitalism. They're going pack with him. That is why, when the JRC is placed and criticises bills like today and talks about women's equal participation in social work, social life, it first highlights all the necessary conditions and conditions which can and can truly ensure the full social development of women, its equivalence and its liberation from her double social and class and racial. The JRC is talking about very specific practical measures, which will support the equality of women. She's talking about women's rights. And it does not speak, like the bill and the European Union, of the so-called equal opportunities. There are a few of them, of course, in capitalism and anyone who can catch them. The JRC is talking about the elimination of unemployment and the right of all people - and of women and men - to work as a basic social right, with equal participation, of course, of women at work, with stable working hours, with stable working hours, less working hours and less wages to live today as a human and not with these current povertys. It also speaks of the JRC's right to the full protection of society in its critical reproductive role, with maternity leave for all workers, on the basis of the needs of mother and infant and not of businesses, with the protection of pregnant women, the dismissal, which is not only on paper, and on the other hand with the 'walkers' of your laws - it is also an amendment of the JRC that has tabled on this issue - by giving maternity benefit to all women before and after birth and in self-employed persons, rural women and we are in the 19th century - and that is why we have tabled an amendment to today's JRC's amendment to this issue - by granting the child benefit to all women and not only to those who are born in their homes, as if we are in the 19th century - and that is why we have tabled an amendment to the today's law - to the five-year-year-old women's-s-s-s-s-s-spanning-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s And don't tell me, as the European Union says, that this is how equality and equality are being violated and that women thus gain privileges. Because this difference in women's pensions, which must exist, is not a privilege. It is the minimum return to the woman for her reproductive role and needs resulting from this role. This is where the social recognition and protection of maternity comes from. What do we see today in the European Union and in our country? On the altar of an alleged gender equality to be taken unparalleledly and as many positive arrangements as were left for women, such as the ban on night work in industrial sectors or maternity leave. What does the bill mean, however, when it speaks of equal opportunities at every appearance of public and private life? What are - anyway - equal opportunities offered to women today? But what other than flexible maternity leave, from the working relationships - elastics leading to many new mothers losing the maternity leave allowance, since is it impossible for a mother to fill in two hundred characters needed to get this allowance? That is why we have tabled an amendment. What other than the equal opportunities in early dismissal before June, which are also available to all female teachers with threatened pregnancy? Finally, one of the equal opportunities that many young women have in their dismissals, who defyed the blackmail of their employers, became pregnant and dared - listen! - and they put their children's birth on top of the business where they work, while the reactive fruit of cold maintenance is being projected, according to which young women have the opportunity to literally put the joy of maternity in the refrigerator, so that the interests of businesses are not affected, of course? And when the government speaks of Article 18 on gender mainstreaming in public health, it simply means collecting and processing data, statistical analyses, training, and at the same time in primary health care structures are absent almost everywhere, for example by gynecologists. Where and how can they see this incorporation of their gender dimension into public health those women who run with their souls in their mouths all day long and then wait for hours in the waiting for them to pay - and above all, we say - the medical visits necessary, diagnostic tests, medicines, prenatal control, childcare, creative employment of their children, vaccine, reasoning, treatment, psychological support - have not, finally, been the list - the care of the elderly, the disabled, everything that should be, that is, providing free of charge public health with the operation of care and care services at home and with funding from the state budget? Finally, what does this inclusion of the gender dimension in public health in many new couples who have to fall, because they have no choice, into the expensive nets of the traders of medically assisted reproduction? Good - we do not say - we will vote for the introduction of the work permit for this, but the main, the process itself remains uncovered by the state and another individual responsibility is made. Good, then, declarations against social discrimination, but there is also a need for practical implementation with state infrastructure and services for social support and protection for all those who suffer such discrimination. Even some positive references in the original draft law - which has a history of about one year - to direct discrimination no longer exist in today's bill, such as that which existed and was removed for discrimination, especially because of pregnancy or maternity, or reference to the national general collective labour agreement, despite government propaganda for collective agreements. Here's what all women should have in mind when they're about to vote in May. Let us look at another key aspect of this essential equality, as the JRC means. We are talking about the woman's right not to spend her whole life only by caring for children, when the elderly, or the disabled. In order to satisfy this need for women and to see it in practice, however, free and modern state nurseries are needed for all children, without conditions and conditions, something that is primarily beneficial and necessary for children themselves and their psychosomatic development. Services are needed for the needs of elderly family members, with chronic illnesses, special needs. Only in practice can equal participation of women in social life and action be ensured. And all these aspects of woman's life, namely motherhood, work, free time, are neither contradictory nor contradictory. Such a reactionary viewpoint has for them the European Union and capitalism, which leads one side of the life of the woman against the other. And that's why it puts these sides apart, cut off from each other, fragmenting the personality and life of the woman and trying, as it says, to harmonize them, reconcile them with the lottery of the vouchers, always having in mind the profits of business. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the JRC the motherhood, the work, the free creative time of each woman is neither contradictory nor incompatible. On the other hand, all of this must also be able to tie harmoniously and complement each other, contributing to the creation of an integrated female personality. After all, single rights are all those things. A society must guarantee them equally for all its members. Capitalist society, of course, neither can nor does it want to achieve this. On the other hand, in countries in previous decades with a lower level of economic growth, this has been done. And it was done because these countries were socialist and their economy, like their society, were organizing not for profit, but for people to meet. I now come for a final comment on the award of 'Equal treatment' to enterprises in the public and private sectors, which this bill introduces as a reward - so it says - for promoting gender equality. "Equality marks" in businesses, therefore, to promote gender equality, a concept which Mr Vorides the other day found to be a sympathetic and the positive arrangement, which he also votes for, as he said. You see, in front of their businesses and their needs, your separating lines disappear. They appear by magic when it comes to Mrs. Kundura. So we have some thoughts about 'equality marks'. For example, the first "Equity Sign" is entitled to take it after its last achievements the administration of the "My Market" stores, which invites its staff, without discrimination, to smile at customers for happiness because it is paid with 300 euros. The second "Equality Sign" must probably go to the Ministry of Education, which fires women teachers who are threatened with pregnancy in the context of obviously the general main streaming, as an example, that is, the integration of the gender dimension into public policies. The third prize will probably be a tough battle between private channels - "SKAI", etc. - who, with their well-known reality every night in the area of the most high viewing, respect and promote women's personality, not human dignity. I'm going through the provisions of the citizenship bill. Few, very few are the purely positive. The provision of the thirty-first article for children with a second generation of migrants born or raised in Greece is certainly positive because they are exempted from schooling. It does, however, blur some of the unclear certificates required, and the level of the disability rate must fall. He should probably go back to 67% of the 80% he's gone in recent years. And of course, both these children and their families have state support, like all children. It may slightly reduce the paradox of the application for naturalisation from 700 euros to 550 euros. Yet again, it remains high. It is the second highest in the European Union. You say this in the explanatory statement, and you also have a new paradox - EUR 100 for objections to the Citizenship Council. According to Article 32, the certification test of the Greek language and other conditions - Greek History and Culture - is mandatory in the process of physicalisation - with the Government claiming that it relieves the process of subjectivity. In contrast, however, at the same time to itself, everything concerning this procedure refers to the judgement of the Minister concerned. This is also pointed out by the National Committee on Human Rights, and there is also concern about the obligation of applicants for naturalization to provide certificates of adequacy of Greek knowledge, which will, of course, be purchased from the educational market that exists, since a public system of teaching Greek for migrants who live and work in our country does not yet exist. And let the JRC ask for it. Immigrant organisations are also asking for it too. We also note the problem of certain provisions, such as the required clearance for all the years of residence of the applicant and not only of the latter, as was the case until now, the rejection or suspension of the applicant's application for naturalisation even for the legal absence from our country for a period of time, but also the fact that they remain intact, unfortunately, the earlier provisions on the so-called criminal obstacles of the applicants for naturalisation, where they literally smuggle serious crimes with other minor offences, such as slandering or opposition to the principle. Scientific bodies, such as the Greek Union for Human Rights, propose the election of this provision, Minister, on criminal obstacles, so that these immigrants do not feel hostages that if they are mobilised, for example, they will never be able to acquire Greek citizenship. With regard to the process of determining the nationality of stateless, Roma with a long presence in Greece, this is unduly referred to by ministerial decisions. Every person must of course have citizenship and, of course, the Roma, who because of their social exclusion are facing very serious problems. For the other provisions relating to the municipal elections, the amendments to the 'CLISTENH', to overcome contradictions and difficulties in their implementation, in particular 'CLISTENH', we consider it necessary to reduce the compulsory number of candidates in a community to 60% of the members of its council, the head of which is to be defined by his combination and the 40% quota for women to apply to the whole of the territory and not to every constituency. I am ending with a small comment on the controversial amendment that came this morning, namely that part of it that removes the Members' hindrances to being candidates for the European elections and which, of course, causes so much noise. Is it possible, at the last minute, to ask, ten days before the nomination of the candidates of the European elections - why will this be done on 2 April - to table amendments to change the electoral rules according to how it suits each time? We're not getting into the point. For these reasons, we cannot vote for it and will, of course, remain in 'the present'. The amendment now concerning the deletion of the debts of the people's households in the municipalities - an extremely serious issue - we will develop it in our second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u42	Deuteronology now, Mr. Delis, you don't have one. You're talking twenty-three minutes. Calculate the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u43	But you only said that for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u44	All of them. They also know those who want to have dentistry spoke eighteen minutes. The others are done. The last rapporteur, Mr Saridis, will now speak of the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will talk about the amendments in our second language. As long as we wait, other amendments may come. At the moment we have five ministerial, seven SYRIZA MPs, about eight MPs from the other parties. Mr Minister, take note of the amendments tabled by the other parties and the Change Movement and the JRC. These amendments are on the right track. See something else with sympathy, not just SYRIZA. I shall begin my introduction with a sad observation. Unfortunately, the current government's legislative initiative also lacks a clear, unambiguous principle that gives meaning and substance to what we are legislating today. Once again, against all the rules of good law, we have to deal with the total lack of government planning, with the relations of the government with the Greek Parliament and with the results of the pressure of legislation. In short, we may have come out, ladies and gentlemen, typically from the memorials, but in the end we have never been able to get rid of our own evils, get away from our own direness, from our own sloppyness, from our own barbarity. So we continue to legislate, as if we were within the memoranda. So how do you expect, Minister, that the Greeks should believe that something has really changed, that something has moved towards a better path, for a better tomorrow, that the exit from the memorandum is essential and not just in our papers? If we do not change the way we operate in here, if we do not start to respect the legislative process and the rules of democracy, then I am sorry, but no substantial progress will be made, no bold step forwards will be able to take, but instead we have to get used to this miserable situation, we have to learn to content ourselves with the few crumbs of freedom, and we have lost the game of the countryside for the future of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, the major changes in a democracy are under way by the laws that she is voting on and not by announcements, promises and statements. Today's bill comes into addition to a series of legislation that ignores, opposes and circumvents any concept of sound legislation and as a rule correct legislation. That is the main reason why we as the Central Association will vote against this bill in principle. Today's bill by the Ministry of Interior has a pompous, but also an empty title, in the view of the Centro Association. I will start from what is provided for in the first part of the draft law on promoting essential gender equality, at the same time as strengthening the prevention and combating of racial violence. It is true that no sensible person could object to issues relating to the principle of gender equality, which, moreover, has been provided for in the Constitution of Greece since 1975 in paragraph 4 of Article 2. Unfortunately, however, it's like throwing water into a barrel without the bottom. What real equality is we talking about, what substantial equality do we have to talk about, when another legislative initiative by the same government that will later come to Parliament provides for a strict definition of rape, without any reference to the concept of consent at all? That is how it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of programming I referred to earlier in the government's view. And the thirty articles of the first part of the bill, which are correct, automatically become irrelevant in practice, little, small, inadequate, since their essence is being destroyed by the impossibility of the government to understand that, in order to have meaning to what is beautiful, but up-to-date, in our view, our colleague, SYRIZA, said about essential equality between the sexes and the effective fight against racial violence, we should have first come to the question of revising the legal definition of rape, to which we have not yet reached a conclusion. So a hole in the water in the first part of the bill! So, as long as we in Greece want to talk about women's rights, invoking arbitrary figures, measurements, figures, figures, but how to take us seriously, when in the whole civilised world the debate on this issue focuses on the redrafting of the legal definition of rape on the basis of the lack of consensus, and on the contrary here in Greece the proposal of the Ministry of Justice, which has recently come to public consultation on the amendment of Article 336 of the Criminal Code, not only does not mention the need for consensus as a precondition, but on the contrary attempts to change the condition of the general wording of a threat of major and immediate danger to physical violence or a threat of serious and immediate life-threatening. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, everything you say is guaranteed in the first thirty articles in this particular gender equality bill, is unequivocally unequivocal to what I have just said. If the definition of rape does not change, all the rest are secondary and we cannot accept your concern as sincere, as effective, unless you disagree with the finding that violence does not only take one form, and for some reason you believe that violence always leaves some obvious signs. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, violence does not always leave visible, visible and distinct signs. What gender equality, then, will we talk if we do not find the courage to do so from this Stepma, from this Chamber in the direction shown by the Marios Ice with two decisions, in which he considered that the victim is not required to resist rape. Also in the committees, the SYRIZA rapporteur invoked the famous Istanbul Convention against Violence against Women, a text which was ratified a year ago by our vote, by the Greek Parliament. However, it did not say anything about its most important point, namely its main prediction of redefining rape on the sole basis of the absence of consensus. So, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA! I now come to comment on the second part of the bill you claim regulates the procedures for the award of citizenship. If you were really interested in resolving this issue and the specific and well-known problems for all of us, you would have brought the specific provisions beforehand, this bill - a bill as a whole is all of it - and not just before the elections and you would have brought it as a single, self-evident bill and attempted to solve many problems through the process of dialogue in Parliament's committees during the debate on the bill. But you have literally brought it in at the last minute with a emblematic addition of nineteen articles in the gender equality bill. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are very sceptical about what you are proposing because the changes you are trying to make, along with the election time you present them, do not leave much room for misinterpretation. You seek the ultimate overthrow of what has happened so far in the Code of Greek citizenship. And you do this without having first secured consensus as to the minimum standards and procedures for determining Greek citizenship. The way in which you are trying today to circumvent this void by giving the Minister concerned the power to decide for himself who is Greek in the end or not by determining the content of an examination, we find ourselves directly opposing. With the unacceptable powers that the ministers of government ask for every three or a few minutes and take them without protest from this House, they take them without protest from the Members of the House so that they can actually overcome the opposition and legislate on their own, do whatever they want, whenever they want, cancel the word of the House. So you are literally bringing the tops down to the Code of Greek citizenship and that is what you are doing with ministerial decisions. Whether this overthrow is in favour of the public interest, in favour of safeguarding human rights, in favour of the proper functioning of the naturalisation process, it remains to be seen and judged on the result. After a careful study of Articles 31 and 49 it is clear that you yourself are aware that the serious weaknesses of your previous law, of Law No.4332/2015, were added to the existing malfunctions already presented by the application of Law.388/2010. You did well in finding out the problem. The solution, however, to the problem, apparently, you haven't found it. At this point I would like to stress that we are fully in agreement with the proposed additions to the proposed changes aimed at harmonising national law with the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, but also with the provisions of European legislation on equal treatment and the elimination of discrimination on grounds of age and chronic disease. Moreover, the second part of the bill is not convinced of either seriousness or its effectiveness. The third part of the bill under discussion has the misleading title "Provisions on elections in local government". Already the title itself, combined with the time period, presides us over what the real intentions of this political decision are to change the electoral process twenty days before the start of the election period. It is a big mistake to send this message, gentlemen of the government, through this Chamber. You send the wrong signal to the citizens that everything is supposedly okay and that it is right that the electoral process should be the field of party prerogatives and that elections can be held in a way that serves party and not political purposes. The way we legislate has an impact on the functioning of democracy. How many citizens do you think will resign, distance themselves and indifferent to the commons from today on account of this cynical management of the micro-political pursuits of your parties? How many? How many of you are with if you're abstentioned if they don't come down to the election? How many Greeks will be led today to the conclusion that since the game is set up and before sold out, as a well-known song says, then there is absolutely no point in getting up from their sofas and going to vote to change this situation, why will this situation remain the same, no matter what years pass? You are strengthening the abstention today with this philosophy, which you are trying to pass to the third part of the bill. Reinforce abstention. That's what you're doing. If you were really interested in strengthening democracy and its institutions, then what you have proposed would be aimed at dealing with the tragic phenomenon of abstention in the face of the forthcoming elections that are coming either at European level or at national level rather than at the service of personal and micro-election interests. With what we are doing today, we are kicking people out of the ballots. The disgracefulness of the electoral process with the last minute's amendments, with 'the leg' of provisions opening roads to a few and chosen, while at the same time closing doors to many, does not help democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make a comment on the risk of the forthcoming elections and I will have a little time for my second-guessing to refer to the amendments. The government claims that the election dilemma is whether we want to go forward or whether we want to go back, whether we want progress or regression. Civic Opposition on the other hand seeks to give a referendum in the elections on the question of whether SYRIZA is dangerous to the country or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I address everyone, regardless of the wings - both these party narrations - and the party account of the government and the party account of the Officer's opposition - is heard by the Greek people. The forthcoming elections will judge whether we will have democracy and peace in this country and not who has stole more, who has deceived less of them, or who has the best communists in order to be able to pass on his positions to the Greek people. What the Greeks will be asked to decide is whether they will remain on the same spectators' work and whether they will expect to see the end of this pragmatism we call "political polarization", knowing that this end will be at the same time the end of democracy and peace in this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. I will give the floor to the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Bolaris, to develop an amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled has two parts. The first is the part that comes to complement the measures already taken to ensure the full participation of Greek citizens in the European elections and of Greek citizens residing in the United Kingdom. Therefore, the amendment ensures that regardless of whether the United Kingdom remains in the European Union or not, Greek citizens will normally exercise their electoral right, and that is why the consulate office at the London Embassy has been strengthened with staff - a diplomatic and two administrative officials - and at the same time has a portal to register Greek citizens - inhabitants of Great Britain on the electoral lists. In fact, with today's amendment we are giving them the opportunity to register up to 10 April. There is also a second part in the amendment, which deals with the management of British citizens in Greece if we have a naughty way out. We hope that it will not be necessary, but the country must be prepared for that. One concerns arrangements for the accommodation of British citizens. It is dealt with in three categories, those who are in Greece today, those who are likely to come by the end of the year and those who will then settle. There are three categories of amendment. There is management of Greek tourists who want to come to Greece about the visas they will need and their convenience, so that it is painless for the Greek economy and the Greek tourism that the turnout of British tourists is painless. There are also provisions concerning the management of rights of British citizens and legal persons, companies based in the United Kingdom and operating in Greece, so that there is no adverse effect. It goes without saying that if the agreement between the European Union and Britain is signed, the provisions of this agreement prevail. The amendment is designed to deal with an extraordinary event, which we all abstain. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, has the floor for some amendments. I'll give you five minutes, Minister. If you need more time, you'll be at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u49	I will not need any more time, Mr President. I'm a oligoologist. After all, I'm going to follow the reverse shape of what Mr. Voridis followed in his speech. I shall now speak a little about the amendments and then make a detailed presentation of the bill in my central speech. First of all, I would like to say that I have not heard any reference - and I say this as a positive one - to the amendment that we tabled to the Ottawa workers, unless we follow up from the Ottoman Members. I hope that it is an amendment which will also be supported by the opposition parties. However, we will continue this effort that we have started to strengthen workers in the OTAs. That is what we are doing with this amendment. Now, with regard to the amendment on electoral elections, we have also heard the rapporteur for Officer Voridis speaking again about some head of mind, some conspiracy, which goes to some centres of power. That's not true, Mr. Voridis. Things are much simpler than that. Before, however, I actually enter, you will allow me to say something, because you have also used an expression which I feel is something that is causing me. You spoke of the crash that occurs in the self-government elections for the forces mentioned in the SYRIZA area. I recommend that you do not anticipate a crash. See what the self-government factors, mayors, regional directors, are still saying in your own political area, not in our own - the majority today actually belongs to your own area - see what you say about the recruitment policy, see what they say about the OTA funding policy. I think with regard to the crash scenarios you'd be surprised at the end of the day. It will be unpleasant for you, of course, to have the results we will have in May in the self-government elections. As far as the substance of the amendment is concerned, look, I think it was also clear from the positions that have been heard by all the rapporteurs in the debate that we are talking here about a process which is complex and complex. So what we are doing today with this amendment is very likely to have all the options open - I mean technical choices - as long as there is an increase in the electoral divisions or partitioning of the electorate. I really am surprised, because you're a high-profile law firm. Do you disagree that legal IPs should be qualified by civil servants if they need to be exploited as legal representatives against other specialities which have nothing to do with this procedure? Because that is what this regulation does. I think that for reasons of collegial solidarity with the lawyers you should agree with this regulation. So that is what we are doing, that is, keeping all the technical options open, so that this process on 26 May and on 2 June of the four candles is carried out in the most technically possible way. In relation, of course, to the third amendment to the vote, where you have given the greatest weight, let me say that here too is the treasure, in my opinion, because you are sometimes confused. You think you're in a courtroom and you're pleading as a legal attorney. You are confusing your professional capacity as a Member of Parliament's political capacity. So because you said that never, anywhere, no one has made such a change just before the elections, I tell you about Law 4255/2014, which is a total change in the electoral law. So that's what happened. The 'never and nowhere' has been done here, in this Chamber, just five years ago. The bill was deposited on 27 March 2014. In the committees the discussions were 1-3 April 2014 and his vote in plenary took place on 9 and 10 April 2014. The FEK has a date of 11 April 2014, with the European elections then with one day different from that of this year on 25 May 2014. We are talking - I repeat - about major change, because then as you remember very well, the electoral system has changed. We went from the list to the cross.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u50	Are you talking about the cross?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u51	Wasn't there a consensus then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u52	No, I reply, Mr Dendia, to your colleague's argument that this has never been done anywhere. We're moving on to a minor change. We are not making a total change in the electoral system, as you did then, and of course we are doing it more timely than you do. Of course, the 'coal' also refers to the fact that, firstly, this cosmopolitan, as I said in my initial position, does not in any way apply to the self-government elections. Secondly, there is no corresponding coma in most European countries. I would like to say one last word, if you will allow me, because they have exceeded time in terms of Brexit. Look, because my colleague, Mr Bollaris, has correctly presented this recently, your party, New Democracy, has issued three communications in the last fifteen days on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u53	That's why you brought the setup.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u54	Really? Do you think we brought the arrangement because the New Democracy caused us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u55	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Voridis, you're more serious than that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u57	Get back!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u58	You're really wronging yourself with what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u59	Individually!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u60	There were, therefore, three announcements from the New Democracy. In fact, let me say that the latter was indeed monumental. It will remain in our country's political time, as it speaks of the fact that the British Parliament's decision to request an extension exposes the Greek Government. I am sure that the British parliament is waking up and sleeping on how to expose the SYRIZA Government! They have no further problem at this time to discuss! In order to be serious, therefore, the government is moving towards a comprehensive regulation of Brexit issues, because of course Brexit also affects Greek voters who are permanently staying in Great Britain. But there are also a number of other issues that my colleague has put forward. A little more serious on these issues, please, too. The whole of Europe is currently working on how to resolve this complex and unprecedented issue. Do not use this for tiny reasons. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u61	We can't get over you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Minister. So let's start a list of speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been forty speakers. We figure we'll go about seven or eight o'clock this afternoon for sure. So, for your own programming, I would also ask the parliamentary representatives to state slowly and slowly about when they want to be placed, so that we can make the corresponding order. They will speak at least three speakers and we will have a change with the Members of Parliament. We are starting with Mr. Skourletis from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Here comes Mr. Georgantas from New Democracy and Mr. Karras from the Democratic Partnership. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we really have a bill on gender equality in our hands today and not just. But most importantly, this bill is not the first one that concerns us in this House. It follows on from other important legislation we have discussed here. I would remind you of the adoption of the Istanbul Convention against Women's Violence, the effort made in all these difficult years to support the structures for violence against women, all this excellent work carried out by the General Secretariat of Gender Equality. All this, of course, without any surprise, was called by the rapporteur of the New Democracy as legislative activism. I am not surprised by that, Mr Voridis, because I remember very well what your official views were on all these issues relating to discrimination in the sexes. Since you have been a government and when you were in Anti-Population, you have nothing to show after 1974, nor one measure voted on, a proposal to this Parliament, which contributes and responds to this reality, in a world that is basically still and is also a man-made world. And this is not about women executives from this space, who have contributed to the women's movement, but your official word, which is quite traditional. So once again you have confirmed that you are the most conservative expressions in this society. So it disturbs you - and you called it 'legislative activism' - this bill. Many, in fact, say that the increase in the compulsory quota by 40% in the lists should have been predicted as they were before, namely, the whole of the territory and not the county. I think this is a mistaken criticism that is being made. It is precisely in those areas where the Greek region is concerned that there is a need to introduce such a measure which in practice enables all those women's officials to express themselves, whether they be political officials or regional elections, which we know is how unfavourable this framework is in the Greek region. So I think that's right. Honestly, I would like to emphasise once again that in this effort, this policy finds its support from the entire range of women in the political world, because, above all, the women's issue is still a dictatorial issue, which concerns the Greek society horizontally. I have heard the speeches on citizenship. Once again, we have a retreat of the Europeanism of the New Democracy. Here we are not looking at what is happening in Europe. We are looking at what reflects our conservative views. Because you have never dared to be bold in this area. You have never looked at the European reality, and now, in fact, after years, over the days of this government and not only in the specific regulations, but also in the previous ones, and those which had been established in previous years, we have taken steps and have taken steps for the first time a uniform level of dealing with issues relating to citizenship, such as in all the advanced European democracies. But your Europeanism seems more like that of Mr. Orban and Mr. Salvini, regardless of what your Chief sometimes has to say. I will not dwell on what you have easily adopted. We read them in all these journalists, friendly to you, in recent times. Learn this daisy of the elections from the beginning of September 2015, they will take place - no elections will take place. You tell us about designs, surprises, multiple scenarios. Be careful: here there needs to be a seriousness. I shall therefore speak of what I consider to be extremely serious in relation to your intervention, Mr Vorides. And what's that? It is your confession: if we go out - you will not go out - we will abolish the simple analogue. I am sincerely glad that you are once again defending the most conservative of the self-government space, a deforming electoral system. This self-government trembling, retreating and will receive the corresponding message in the self-government elections coming. So these, which in the name of supposedly self-government support, have served throughout the past period, are nearing their end. A large democratic incision is taking place, an incision that will force the representatives of government not to hide behind false, fake majorities, but to place themselves with concrete proposals, to table programmes for local communities and to be forced to interact and to seek the common place where it exists. But what I really am pleased about is that you are honest with the world of work. There is no greater proof than your truly completely timeless, consistent attitude toward permanent assignments to cleanliness. You gave a battle - a year has closed where this competition took place - when the crisis was then with the cleanliness strike to give this service to private individuals, because you understand municipalities as anonymous companies. This is your view of the social nature of local self-government. You come today and a competition that was just completed a year ago and for reasons related to the functioning of the AACC - despite your efforts you have invaded the AACC - you have tried to undermine it in many ways, you have smuggled an independent authority, because you are disturbed by the fact that we shielded the municipalities, that we have given the possibility to their own forces, by breaking the hostage status of workers, which you have raised, when you were in the government through the thousands of contractors who have been there for so many years. Because you want hostage workers to have them under pressure every time before we go to the elections. That is precisely the case now, the opposite is the case for which you are accusing us of. We are ensuring permanent, stable jobs and we are really proud that, for today, after a decade, it has become the biggest competition for permanent jobs in cleanliness. You are disturbed, of course, and it is particularly saddened by the private interests you want to serve. I'm sorry, but you were isolated from the very self-government people who are in your area. You saw what position the CED has taken. The Minister told you a moment ago, Mr. Haritsi. He didn't follow you to that. It agrees with the amendment. Yes, well, the municipalities must be strong, they must be on your feet. What can we do? At some point neoliberalism is revealed and some turn their back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr Georgiotis has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Let us first mention what Mr Skourletis last referred to. When a provision actually comes to lifting the recruitment ban before the electoral process in self-government, we must first tell us what data we have, to see whether or not it is within the urgent reasons that exist in our legislative framework in general, so that we can accept that exception. Have the 3K results come out, Minister? Are we in legislation on a potential person? In other words, listen now, ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing? The results of the 3K, precisely because it is a very big competition, precisely because, unfortunately, its start was made in the clipboards chosen by the government, i.e. the provisional tables came out without any control of documents, certificates and attestations, it has too many issues and the scientific staff of the AACC have been unable to achieve the results to date. He's gonna take it off. When it comes to the results, i.e. when the final tables come out, it will be raised, if it comes to it, whether or not we have to make an exception, or not, to the ban that the legislator has set for such cases. Have you been in touch with the independent authority of the AACC about when the final results of such a big contest, objective and transparent? Tell us. Is the AACC an independent authority or is it not? Did the AAP make results on 3K, yes or no? Oh, no. When the final results of the 3K come and you want here to raise an exception to the recruitment ban, then come and talk about it, tell us what the urgent reasons are and see if we are being drafted or not. Now on what exactly are we talking about? I don't understand it. We don't have an object. That's the one. Please, Minister, take your place on this. The AAPC can't be under pressure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u66	So you're telling us to legislate backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u67	Not retrospectively. Is the AACC currently working on such a serious issue, which has to do with fate and the fate of eight and a half thousand people, who will be in the final tables? Does the AACC have to issue the results under pressure? That is, if he publishes it three months later or in a week no one knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u69	Report as an exception to the 3K in your article. What 3K? Do we have 3K results? When we have the final results of the 3K - until then you have made sure, on the basis of your own rules, that there is a vague duration - we will know what we are talking about. By your amendment, in breach of any general and specific provision, the provisional tables shall apply until the final results of the AACC have been obtained. So, right now, the municipalities don't have a gap. They don't need anyone extra. They are currently working on the municipalities with the provisional results, the provisional tables. When the final results come out, when the independent AACC authority officially makes them, then, if you want an exception, you can come and tell us why and how. There is at the moment no question of urgency, which must be resolved by your current speech. With regard to the amendment you have put forward for the elections, I really am overcome by the fact that the government is coming and trying with such an amendment, which comes two months before the self-government elections to resolve an issue and technical and essential, which it created itself, and calling for the consent of this House and the ratification of a process that should not be of concern to us, should be solved. You changed the date of the self-government elections. You differentiated the elections for the local councils, and you wanted the same political purposes for the elections to be held in four ballots in one day. And now the Greek people hear the serious argument, you know, four ballots in one room, the same day, they raise issues in the electoral process. You're telling us this, as a young man? Did it come up now? Did you see it now? Did you see that now? Didn't we just call it that long? Wasn't that familiar? And now you come with tricks, which move to the limits of both the type and the substance that a electoral process must govern and ask us to separate these procedures. Our rapporteur has told you very well that there is a possibility of this happening and of distinguishing the two different electoral procedures. The process of European elections, the process of self-government elections. So we can easily reach agreement and decide, so that the elector, whom we must respect, and enable him to vote in good, but also in a clear sense, can do so and maintain something that has never been called into question by anyone in recent years, the credibility of the electoral process. Any intervention at the last moment in a process which has been recorded in the consciousness of the world, when it is done in the way it is done, can you understand that it does not serve the purpose which we all have here to strengthen in relation to the credibility of the electoral process. And, of course, I should like to point out that very important factors that need to be explained to the people are also the financial burden of the choice of yours. A choice which also burdens the Greek taxpayer and I don't know what dead ends he's finally trying to get you out. I think that it is not a picture of a European state two months before the self-government elections that we have a bunch of articles on the bill itself and amendments that change the rules of the electoral process and about those who are interested in being candidates and about how the vote will take place on the day of the election. That certainly doesn't pay tribute to any of us. I would like to refer to another article. Unfortunately, I only catch up with you, it is really a big bill, but there is no way of talking about everything. It's Article 40, which puts a new, innovative regulation on how to acquire citizenship. So there, as has been heard by many, for the first time we have the opportunity for a person who is not in life to ask for his Greek citizenship to be recognised when he has a legitimate interest in doing so. Of course, the Scientific Service of the House in this particular matter has not been placed in detail, but there are issues which have to do with the very legal nature of such a provision, and I will tell you what I mean. There are judgments of the Greek courts, the administrative Supreme Courts of Greece, which in requests of this kind, just like what is supposed to be resolved by this regulation, have ruled that the death is not the subject of any rights and obligations in order to obtain citizenship and therefore, one cannot discern nationality to a person who has died. That is what the administrative courts in our country say, and in many ways, they have said so. Outside this purely legal part of the case, however, what you understand creates major issues is not only that for the first time and without us to understand and understand from what point, from what pressures, from what demands, from what needs the government is supposedly coming to cover this gap, but I would like to hear the Minister tell me "I have two hundred, five hundred, a thousand demands from people who have lost their nationality or else and see if this process really helps in it or anything else". I, when I see such a legislative initiative, would really like to see what need it covers and where the nuisance has occurred. It is not only that it is innovative to acquire through the deceased, that the means which can be used to prove this Greek nationality are in a way that is not in line with the evidence so far requested in similar cases, but that is precisely what enables the Greek state to do in a very indirect way - and I do not know how legitimised - in the end how legitimate it is to be led to such a crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, after all from this bill, I do not think there will be much left in memory either of your own or of the Greek people. Maybe, after all, there's only two things left. Your attempt to alter the Greek people's message in the forthcoming elections, but it will be clear on every poll, whenever elections are held. And the other thing that will remain in the memory of the Greek people is that we also have the amendment 'Koundoura'. Be well, ladies and gentlemen, good recompense for the departments!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u71	Just a minute, Mr President. For citizenship, I'll discuss it in detail in my speech. I'm just going to make a comment on the last thing Mr. Georgiodakis said. In your day, Mr. Georgiodha, ethnicity was given ascending to grandparents and grandparents several times, but only in cases of footballers, basketballers. We want to systemify the process and concern all the citizens who have the right to acquire that nationality. But I will say in detail what is happening in this case in my speech. But I want to make a comment on 3K. Because I think - and I'm not saying it provocatively, I honestly believe you've confused it a little. Honestly, what are you telling us? Come and legislate retrospectively when the final paintings come out? Is that what you're telling us? Is that a proper legal procedure? It is certain - you know that very well, because you have contact with the AACC too - that the final tables will be published in the next six months, because we are talking about six months. So what needs to be done, precisely so that the AACC can function properly, inevitably to do its work, is to come to legislate now what we are doing, namely to exclude the suspension of recruitment and this six-month period. Because, of course, I cannot imagine that you now want the municipalities to stay with the provisional tables, those who you said at the beginning of your speech that they were badly issued, for another semester. Is that what you want? We say - we are clear on this, and I expect you, too, to have a clear position - that we in the municipalities' cleansing services to go as soon as possible to permanent staff. It is a question of the proper functioning of these critical services of self-government. It is a matter for the workers themselves to have passed from health and safety education, so that we do not have accidents at work, as unfortunately we have all the previous years. It is a very critical issue for us. Let me close with this comment, because you told the committee that the lust of the present government is not to be credited for this very great success of the eight and a half thousand jobs and recruitment for cleaning services, which you have fought for the past year, rabies. That's not gonna happen. The current government will credit this success.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u72	Now we've come to an understanding. You're talking the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u73	And of course, you'll lose the election too. And the next government, the SYRIZA government, will proceed to new recruitment where municipalities and regions are in great need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Karras will now be given the floor from the Democratic Alliance for seven minutes. Immediately afterward, Mr Rabbit, the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, the speech by a Member in plenary gives him the right to go beyond even the text of the bill, which is being discussed, so that the Greek people can form their view of what is generally referred to in Ethiopia. The Member has the right to parliamentary scrutiny in order to bring matters to the debate with the relevant Minister, to be dealt with, resolved and criticised by the government. Unfortunately, however, because I have recently witnessed a deception of the role of the Member and I am obliged to mention it, Mr President, in the Minutes too, for the reason that, on critical questions which I have put to the Government and in particular to the Minister of State, Mr Tsakalotos, during nine consecutive meetings, a workload has been proposed and has not been accepted to reply. It was Mr Voutsis here earlier, to whom I have also addressed a letter of protest. Unfortunately, I have not received any reply from the President of Parliament either. But let us go further than this bill. There is also an issue of avoidance here by the ministers of parliamentary control. I asked both the Minister of the Interior and the Ministers responsible for the administration of the matter of the transfer of students from the Arts and Music Schools, which ends in June 2019. In fact, I must remind you that a provision is coming here - Article 101 in the legislation - where it says: I legislate on the transfer of pupils to artistic schools up to 30-6-2019. And that's where the silence is. It is an injustice that is being done at the moment, and I would like to remind you that since 2015, students from the Music and Art Schools, because they carry massive objects - whether musical instruments or cafés or paintings - have been transported with costs in the region without a kilometre. This was in force until 2018. And suddenly in 2018 he attempted a distinction with Ministerial Decision and the students of the Art Schools were excluded. Today, therefore, Article 101 of the bill sets out a provision which legalises their transfer up to 30-6-2019 and excludes them from the future. Because we had asked the relevant ministers a few months ago, which was unanswered. I have therefore had to take the initiative and endorse the Members of the Democratic Incorporation Group, Mr Minister, in which we call for the restoration of an injustice, which is now before us: The students of the Music Schools and Intercultural Schools are transported - and rightly so - from the regions for the reason that they carry massive objects. Musical Schools, for example, carry their musical instruments from home. Similar heavy objects, however, are also being transported from the students of the Art Schools. The Science and Film School must carry their testimonies, because it does not have the state such equipment. When it is of visual, painting, sculptures must carry the carpet, their paints. So under the provision of Article 101, which limits the length of transport, children should, from 1 September of the new school year, carry on their backs all these heavy goods, without having the right to transport from the buses available to the regions or municipalities. Indeed, if you wish, we have also made a compromise proposal to resolve this issue. We do not ask for a total transfer with the amendment. We're accepting a mileage limit. If, for example, there are a thousand hundred meters from the student’s home to carry them by the same means. It's close. However, when he is a high school student and goes to school three or five kilometers away from home, not only are the dangers faced by a child at twelve or thirteen to move on his own way either from home to school, or from school to home, but he is certainly struggling, because the objects must carry them daily and he is tired. And you know that this is, ultimately, an art-leaving counterincentive at the artistic school. We are therefore calling for the strengthening of the Art Schools - it is now a question of culture - which, in Greece, I would remind you - is seven, Minister. It's not more. It's a little. And if one accepts that it should be carried in the same way as the students of the Music Schools, it has no financial impact, because the means of transport is being made available. It does not have a burden on the state budget. I do not want to comment differently. Possibly astronomical escaped the decision of 2018 and the Art Schools were not included. We are therefore insisting on this. We have signed the amendment by all colleagues on the part of the Democratic Integration, which we are part of the Standing Committee on Public Administration and the Internal Affairs, as well as in the Committee on Forestry, because the parents' associations have put this issue before us, Minister. We think it's an injustice. We call for you to accept this amendment, which we have tabled. I repeat that it has no financial impact. The regions have buses for the transport of pupils from other schools. The central resources available to the Ministry of the Interior to the regions cover this amount. It must therefore be restored - and I say it strongly, Mr President - that injustice, because I believe that at the end these children, who must have our affection, will give up their studies. And why, Minister, will they abandon their studies? Because they cannot wake up at seven o'clock in the morning, take the rider or the veteran back and carry it on their feet, children of twelve, thirteen years old, who are of high school. Because there are Gymnasia Arts and High Schools. And the older kids will get bored. We will therefore also lose a piece where we can offer cultural education, quality education, because of a distorted regulation. I will not go into other issues of the bill, Minister, because they have been exhausted by Members of the parliamentary group. But I remain persistent and ask for this amendment to be accepted, because I think we should give young people our affection and our help. Here, indeed, - I repeat against Coron - we have no financial impact, because the resources of the CAP, Minister - you know that better than I do - are available for this purpose. I think you should accept it. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Rabbit, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes. Immediately after the speech Mr Germenis will receive from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u77	I am going to stand by the two articles of this bill, which, of course, the Golden Dawn is voting against, like all the others that the SYRIZA Government brings, where she stayed alone with them "SYRIZANEL", even for the eyes of the world. And we are voting against what it brings, because we think - and we have explained it - that the SYRIZA Government is at the moment having nothing to do with the reality, it does not represent the majority of the Greek people. That's for granted. Her percentages are very low. Also, in the Greek Parliament, it has lost the majority, it has lost the declared one and it is trying, effectively bribing the MPs and giving them some privileges, whether with ministerial positions, or by feeding the Members' seats, or by placing them on the State vote, to keep them close to it and to keep their chair for another four months. That's the reality. So we do not support this government, and we do not vote for anything that it brings, to make it clear to the Greek people what is going on. I shall therefore stand by Rule 17. Article 17 shows that this is a shameful article, which has to do with the propaganda that has already started and is being done in our schools, but which, unfortunately, is now becoming increasingly and more intensely. So we start from the primary school children and force them, we learn that there are not only two sexes, but there are various other sexes, there are also the "it". There is the man, the woman, and there is the "it". We're evolving as human beings. As a human species, we're evolving. We won't stand for the man and the woman. We're not primitive. Society's going forward here. So you're listening to us. So we go to these children and force them from the very tender ages of seven, eight, nine years old to learn that there is a neutral sex and everything else. Any, really, perv - because what is not normal with nature is abnormal - we are now slowly looking at bringing him together and showing that this is the right thing to do. So, those who are staying to say the traditions, what we have grown up with, born and learned, are considered backwards, fascists, racists, unlike you democrats and open-minded people, who accept "the" as sex, you accept Greece becoming a Muslim country, in which every illegal immigrant who has entered our country can have a thousand two rights, as opposed to Greek citizens. Let it be like that. You know very well that your Greek society now has the margin. Whenever the elections take place - on 26 May the European elections will necessarily be held - you will see the percentages you have in Greek society. You will see how, indeed, the Greek people worship you. Besides, you see it slowly. To make a simple visit to a cafeteria, go escorted by the platoons of MATs and all-armed police officers. You are the democrats who would abolish MATs. Were you against state repression and violence? You who didn't like these, are now looking for any more platoons. You want more platoons together. You don't get what you have. Where should they reach you? Besides, the MAT platoons don't do anything else. They do not protect ordinary Greek citizens. Their job is to look after you, your families, your homes only, so you can have some coffee outside, because you can't go from your home to the kiosk. So do other MATs, you left ones. Left-wing MATs are these, democratically. It's the left government's MATs. We are talking about this, so that the Greek people can see it and understand what they voted for, because you too have responsibility for it. Let's not take him out of responsibilities with the Greek people. He has to see what's going on. The Greek people must also learn that you treat him in this way even now that you need him, because you want him to vote on you. Imagine in a short time, with the hundreds of thousands of legal residence permits and voting rights for the illegal immigrants you give, how much importance you will give the Greek citizen. It is precisely these things. Let the Greeks awaken and fight to cast this rotten government. In Article 17, then, we see this. Article 47 follows on from what I said earlier about illegal immigrants, who acquire many rights, more than Greeks. They enter illegally from our borders, they don't ask anyone, they come, they rob, they rape, they kill and nobody catches them to go to jail. And if anyone catches them, however, they know that by the Law of Friday, they will be released with rights. Terrible law! This man should be persecuted normally, seated on the stool and explain how it is possible with his law to release reassured murderers, who not only have repented of what they have done, but rather do the same and worse. Because they know very well that even if they have done five and eight and seven and six murders, they will put them in for two or three years, and they will then be released with rights. They all have rights. Do you know who he is? The Greek ordinary citizen, who is in his home, who sits with his family and suddenly sees at 3.00 pm, even at 3.00 pm - at noon - because everyone is now devastated - enters with kalashnikov, with guns, knives in his home, robbing and threatening him. And the former Citizen Protection Minister tells him: "Come on, you too? What are you doing to wake up? Do what you sleep about people leaving." That's SYRIZA's policy. That is the policy of the left, which respects people's rights. They do not respect the rights of all people, but illegal immigrants. The rights of the Greeks leave it a bit behind. In Article 47, therefore, illegal immigrants, who have illegally crossed our borders, are now entitled, since they illegally entered, have been illegally seated, illegally paid, and have not been kicked out of our country, without even spending the one year until now, being hired to the public. If this is not a alteration of the social fabric, the cohesion of our Greek population and our country, tell me what it is. In other words, you can barely bring hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, who by chance are all Muslims and make Greece deform, which is traditionally a Christian Orthodox country, where almost all European countries were the most compass than the mass of the world that lives here. We never had any differences. We are not Spain with the Basques, like Ireland with England and the IRA and Spain with the EFF. We don't have that kind of problem here. But you want to create such problems slowly, bringing them all. So we see the New Democracy not actually opposed to it. And the question is: After so many illegal immigrants, who are obviously not going to vote for New Democracy, have the right to vote 'Alex' which gives them and benefits, which he cares for them, which puts them in his Euroleaf and will slowly give them a lot of things, why does the New Democracy not react? But it's just that the New Democracy is exactly the same thing. It's the other side of the same coin. It's in the game what's going on. After all, let us not forget that we have reached Greece the issue of illegal immigration, which is crucial - from Greece - is the main influx of illegal immigrants across Europe - not to manage it - and that is commonly accepted now - but NGOs. It's about a hundred and seventy-two NGOs, who decide which illegal immigrants will get in, how long they'll sit in, which houses they'll stay and nobody knows. In areas where I am, in Piraeus, I know very well that there are houses right now where only illegal immigrants live. In Lesvos and Chios, because I've talked to people, they've told me they don't know the number of illegal immigrants, because the NGOs, the humanists on payment, and they're taking them, the kids of Soros. In fact, I said earlier that within these NGOs there is also the sister of the Head of the New Democracy. With Soros NGO. So they're getting them inside, they're getting money, they're putting them in apartments and in houses and they're all set in the social fabric of Greece without anyone knowing what's going on at the moment. This is democracy. However, as long as you are fighting for it, the multiculturality in Greece will not pass. We'll react. We'll fight against this until the end. And we slowly manage - while you have fainted us from everywhere, but our soul, and our hearts have not fainted - on the sidewalk, on the street, on the cafes, on the neighborhoods to be next to the Greek citizens and to tell them the truth. And many of them wake up. And to tell you that we agree with the SYRIZA Government, the New Democracy and all the others who are drafting it. Your fear, your nightmare of the upcoming European elections, the rise, that is, of the 'block-right' that speaks of homeland, orthodomy, of love for our fellow citizen - these are scary things and should not be said! - it will happen. The patriotic patriotic parties across Europe will be very high and, of course, the Golden Dawn. Your fear comes. It's gonna be a nightmare. You have two more months to take your pills, relax, not come to you abruptly. You will see what happens on May 26th and in the self-government elections in Athens, Thessaloniki, Piraeus, where the Golden Dawn is coming down, as well as in all the other municipalities that we go down. There, you'll slowly see what's going on. And after a few months, of course, the parliamentary elections are also coming. We will see everything slowly and we will see the resonance you have in Greek society and the Golden Dawn. I would like to refer to two, three other issues relating to everyday life and to general issues, which are not very much mentioned in Parliament, except Golden Dawn. We were talking earlier about the New Democracy - SYRIZA partnership, that they are all the constitutional arch together and are against us. First of all, I should like to emphasise something: This fact that all of you are compiling and saying that we are opposite Golden Dawn, for us is the greatest title of honor. We're glad we're proud to be you. In this Greek Parliament, in this Parliament that Greek nationalists and patriots have no right to talk about you, we are glad that we are your only enemy. It is our honour and we promise you that until the end we will be: the enemies of this octocratic arch that you stole, plundered, leveled the Greek. We'll be here to defend him. Fight us as you can. We'll fight you with all our powers. So let me say something that may not have been very well known. A few days ago - last Wednesday I think - in the European Parliament there was a resolution on Turkey's condemnation by MEPs. This resolution was voted on by the overwhelming majority of European Members and it was a matter of stopping Turkey's accession to the European Union now, something very good and very positive, of course. They did not vote for it a hundred and nine MPs. The others voted or abstained. To the hundreds of nine MPs who didn't vote for it, do you know who they were? They were Greek MPs from SYRIZA, Potami and New Democracy, these patriots of the New Democracy who embraced SYRIZA sold our Macedonia. So, listen to this resolution, what the European Parliament said and what it did not accept from writing the constitutional bow, your parade here. So he said this decision: Turkey should respect the relationship with its neighbours, with regard to land and sea borders and the airspace, in accordance with the provisions of the UN Charter and international law. It reiterates its call for the Turkish Government to sign and ratify the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Here's what the Greek MPs have not signed! I continue: it urges the Turkish Government to put an end to the repeated breaches of Greece's airspace and territorial waters and to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all its neighbours. It deplores the fact that the threat of casus belli, declared by the large Turkish National Assembly against Greece, has not yet been revoked. Do you hear them? Do Greek citizens hear them? And it continues to speak of Cyprus and says that it calls on Turkey to begin to withdraw its troops from Cyprus, to transfer the enclosed region of Famagusta to the administration of the United Nations, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 550 and to refrain from actions that alter the demographic balance of the island, through the implementation of an illegal settlement policy. These have been accepted by MPs from Germany, from Italy, from Spain, from England and Greece has not accepted them. Then when we call you traitors, would you misunderstand? You traitors are, hug! And indeed, SYRIZA's MEP, Culloglu, came out and congratulated the New Democracy MEP, Spyraki, who was there that day and voted against this resolution. So you deserve deception and spit from the Greek people. You're traitors. We'll keep telling you, and we'll prove you why. Please, I put it for the Minutes, for those who have some doubt, to take it, read and see what you did not vote on. That's who you are. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the statement by Mitsotakis, the Chief of the New Democracy, then comes to stick with it. It went a few days ago in Thrace - it passes whenever it's no pre-election period to see, they don't know anything - and he dared to say the atheophobus - or he's irrelevant and he doesn't even know what's going on in Pomakohoria with the Greek Moslems, or he's a traitor who said that - "The mother tongue of the Greek Muslims is the Turkish". And no one staggered him. Your mind and a pound, Mitsotakis! Have you spoken to Pomacus Greeks? People fight and shout that in schools their children want to learn the pomace and the Greeks. And the humiliated anti-Hungarian state leads them to Turkey's arms. And the Chief of Officer County, who is supposed to be patriots, comes out because SYRIZA has no other requirement, they are - and dares to say these things. So behold, your fear and your terror for the Golden Dawn. We're unraveling you. We are specific to what we say, we have positions and opinions. And I wish a New Democrat would come and watch over one day in Pomakohoria, and see how we can deal with you. You're indestructible, pathetic, you're riding Greece and fighting it in any way. You are in good cooperation with the Left represented by SYRIZA now, represented by the JRC. You hug yourself, and that's why you hate the Golden Dawn patriotic party. We'll be here, we'll chase you to the end, we'll see you to the Greek people and we'll be confronted when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Germenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u79	This is another piece of legislation characterised by the bad structure, the service of your future purposes, and thirdly by the service of your electoral needs. This bill, which is divided into three parts, aims mainly to dismantle the electoral system that we have all known so far, to dismantle the institutions of the nation-state. In order to be more specific, the first part contains provisions that are allegedly intended to combat discrimination on the basis of sex. The second part deals with citizenship, while the third part has the provisions amending the electoral law. So, as is clear from what I have said, we are talking about a multi-project with unreasonable provisions between them. So, today, for the wider context in the public sector and for the Greek legal order, we have an incomprehensible concept for the majority of the people. I am talking about the theorem of the so-called'sexual dimension'. We are learning new words here in this "Greek" Parliament. Article 2 contains provisions that demonstrate that the goods protected are not the reputation and value of the woman. I refer to the terms'multiple gender-based discrimination' and 'green discrimination'. Under these conditions, racial and multiple discrimination is the physical, psychological or verbal behavior between which people are degraded on the basis of their sex, sexual orientation and the identity of their gender, as well as their ethnic, ethnic or social origin. What the average citizen can understand is that the purpose of introducing these terms is not to radically alter social perceptions and to introduce new morals, but, in no case, to make progress for our country and ensure social cohesion. On the contrary, they show moral decline, they cause social division, even within public services. From that point on, we have the structure of services in the public and local authorities, according to the model proposed by the government in question, which will work to promote this useless institution. Furthermore, the problem of bureaucracy is exacerbated by the operation of different services, but they have the same purpose. At this point it is necessary to stress that the value of women, her social position, has long been guaranteed in Greek society and no one can question it. Therefore, it is clear that your Government intends to achieve what it intends to achieve with this bill, is to satisfy the controversial demands of people with sexual specificities, as well as migrants. I cannot leave Article 17 on the record, as this is a very dangerous provision, since the propaganda of neutralisation and the reaping of a normal visa in relation to the two sexes is insubstantially introduced into education. So you tell us that you will teach our children inaccurately and falsely when they are at their most tender age. We tell you that you want to water our youth by poisoning immorality and irrationalism. In the second part you make a reality of what Golden Dawn has denounced for too many years. I am, of course, talking about the targeted amendment of the Code of citizenship, which means simplifying the procedures for the award of citizenship to all foreigners who have entered Greece illegally in the last thirty years. In this way, tens of thousands of foreigners will be naturalized as Greeks, who neither were born in Greece nor received Greek education. Only in 2017 thirty-five thousand foreigners received Greek citizenship through bureaucratic procedures. And the number's growing all the time. It is worth noting that according to data provided by EUROSTAT, for 2017 it is estimated that twenty-five million foreigners from Africa and Asia live in Europe. So we have as a fact that the total population of these people is twice the population of Greece. Golden Dawn is also justified in this major issue. And I am, of course, talking about Europe's population deformation in general, which, as you all know here, we want to see specific power centres that we have denounced many times from this one. The naturalisation of foreigners will also have opened the door so that these immigrants can be appointed - illegal immigrants we say - in the public sector. If this is not a specific type of racism against the Greek native population, what is it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, we are opposed to this bill, we will vote against it and fight in all directions in whatever direction we take, with the regional elections, with the European elections, to be everywhere and to strike in every way the treacherous and treacherous bills brought by the government, in which the opposition is also involved. The role of Golden Dawn is to bring a nation - state that can cope with the new order of things against the shrinking of the European citizen, against the shrinking of the Christian Orthodox population and fight to leave an hour earlier than the Greek Parliament, but also in general from the political establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr Spartinos from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes, and immediately after the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Dendias. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a more general reference to the current situation before I refer to the substance of the bill. We are living at a time when, while in many countries of Europe and around the world, right-wing speech, intolerance and, in general, conservativeism seek to understand the focus of the public sphere and regain aggressively, there are still scattered gala villages on a hopeful path nowadays of understanding and collapsing where it is blowing against sexism, against racism, against xenophobia and against the destruction of the social state and whatever progressive conquest our people and our people have achieved. You see, the extreme political views on the right happen to be extremes in management of social and economic problems. Of course, our society has not remained unaffected by the monumental policies and the rise in conservativeism. It is no accident, after all, that the extreme right-wing paranormals, practicing in the dear sports of patriocape, are being conspired today to the right of the New Democracy, but not only within it, with the prospect of taking a signicant position on the next day that they imagine is coming. Nevertheless, in Greece and despite the unprecedented neoliberal eruption that took place in the social and economic life of the place by previous governments, with thousands of households impoverished, with redundancies and in general an attempt to dissolve the social fabric, the Greek people not only reacted but reacted progressively. It is not negligible that while the Greek people experienced this great economic catastrophe and, at the same time, the coming of thousands of outdated people from the war, the majority did not react obscurely and fearfully. On the contrary, turning to the left, he sought progressive solutions to his problems. One must not underestimate the size and importance of this progressive direction of our people, which has to do with others, and with their deep agonists and humanistic roots. This direction is now forming at the political level in a wide-ranging alliance against neoliberalism, patriocapelia, the extreme right in all its appearances. In confirming this course, therefore, the Government also submits this draft law focusing on human rights to promote and consolidate fundamental gender equality and prevent and combat race violence, since it has already touched sensitive issues such as the cohabitation pact or the possibility of taking up children and gay couples, as well as the possibility of legal recognition of gender. The aim of today's bill is to create an independent institutional framework for the effective implementation of gender equality and the lifting of racial discrimination in all areas of public social and economic life by designing political measures and actions on the part of the state and by helping always this civil society. To this end, an integrated network of structures and services, such as women's advisory centres, hostels of abused women, the SOS 24-hour telephone line, the independent equality offices and the equality committees in municipalities and regions, is planned, with the aim, inter alia, of offering psychosocial support, legal advice, but also of providing safe accommodation for women - victims of violence. In addition, it promotes further encouragement of women's active participation in the political life of the place by strengthening their representation to the public and, in particular, the establishment of the management's collective bodies as a precondition for their legal establishment. Even in the areas of health, education and social solidarity, the gender dimension is included in the design, implementation and evaluation of public policies, while in the field of mass media and advertising regulations are being promoted to eliminate stereotypes related to racial discrimination and often afflict our culture. In addition, other arrangements in the bill provide for a seven-day leave to workers applying methods of medically assisted reproduction, while resolved by time-consuming occupational safety problems of workers under the ‘Help at home’ programme, as the scope is extended and the municipalities can modify their internal service organisations by setting up corresponding organic staff posts for the workers employed in the programme. Finally, a number of provisions amend the Code of citizenship to streamline the framework of acquisition of Greek citizenship and to avoid bureaucracy, delays and suffering of applicants who have so far been completely intentional from the previous governments. There are also issues relating to the staff of TAs, such as the uninterrupted completion of recruitments in return services. By notice 3K/2018, the recruitment of seasonal staff, as well as the exception to the suspension of official changes due to elections, the return of municipal police from detention stores, is thus restored the last great injustice that the Kyriakos Mitsotakis period had given us to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that for a long time the government, in trying to mitigate or balance the heavy burden of the Memorandum commitments, which the previous governments had borne, was applying what we had termed 'the parallel programme'. After August 2018 with a series of legislation, including today, the "Accompany Program" is no longer a monitoring of the Memorandum Policies, but takes over the central area of our political and legislative choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Spartan. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st Municipal School of Filyrou Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will in principle make a general position because of a number of things that are heard not only today, but also recently in the Chamber on the part of the Members of the government, who, however, say - I think - either a voluntary confusion or an unintentional confusion, but also self-evident confusion. They're trying to cut the political scene in two ways. One view, which is noble, progressive, humanist, intertwined with human rights, is always theirs, whatever the legislation that the government supports or suggests. And the other is the one that indiscriminately - and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, extremely dangerous - is smuggling things, neoliberalism, extreme right-wing, conservatism, what can be imagined. And this distinction tries to appear as the dominant distinction towards which Greek citizens must be placed. So there must be a simple and clear understanding on this. The first and dominant approach to this understanding is that SYRIZA is not progressive. And in any case, no one can offend our logic, claiming - even indirectly - that what the government is proposing is a priori progressive. I would suggest to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we also be very careful in understanding the words. The word 'conservative' is not a negative word and is not a 'progressive' one. The opposite of the 'progressive', ladies and gentlemen, is the word'regressive'. The opposite word of 'preservation' is'scream'. And evil is rot, not maintenance. Maintenance is positive. And yet, the top evil is the smack. Neoliberalism - to be historically and seriously and economically explained - never existed in Greece, never was a perfect one. The Greek centre-right governments can be blamed for detention, they cannot be blamed for neoliberalism. They didn't. Mr. Manos blames them for that. So, it doesn't matter what we like, it doesn't mean to try to heterogeneously determine the other. You want to tell the New Democracy that in her historic course she exercised state control? Let me discuss this with you, I'd like you to say it. Leave the neoliberal stuff now, it never happened. There was Thatcher in England, there was Reagan in the United States. This current was developed through Chicago School, heard and declined. We are not concerned, however, with Greece. We should be able, ladies and gentlemen, to get to grips with things. And also - for God and attention! - Don't fool around! Because that's how you're doing? You are giving a certificate to an extreme part of the extreme right - there is also in the Chamber - not to be fooled now - by putting with them other aspects of the conservative space, which are absolutely respectable in the political debate and you must respect them and answer them on the substance of the matter and not by demonisations. That's what we need to know. And I am telling you this in the light of the election period that comes, because it is important to keep dialogue at a level. Do not lead to dialogue in a way that is far from logical and divides society. That's a huge mistake. I'm coming to the law now. Our rapporteur, Minister, I think he has told you. Because of a late arrival of a plane, I had no pleasure listening to him, but I've already seen his two places in the Minutes. But I would say to you this: First of all, to agree on one thing, this legislation does not have the beginning. You want to tell me he's got a lot of principles? Perhaps, but the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this, with many principles. It has a chapter to promote essential gender equality, it has another chapter on "Consolidation of Citizenship", has a third chapter on "Provisions on elections in local government" and some other provisions, in addition to the provisions on elections. So we have three completely different chapters. And because you were also supposed to put a cherry and a cherry, or if you like sour cherries, the amendment that we called for 'Koundoura amendment' is also in place. Maybe it's not, it's for someone else. This is the situation of this legislation, which the government side tried to show us as a form of intersection again. First of all, I have to say that every time - and I start from the end, from the issue of local government, before I get to the rest - a piece of legislation on local government, on the part of the government, accompanies it with the profile of the section, of something of particular importance. If one sees how long the remodeled provisions have been changed, it will result in the government having no clear view of where it is going and what it is doing. It is legislated and then relegated and then relegated and changed and rechanging and rechanging and putting us in this perpetual process. It doesn't codify. How do you deal with this? So that we can reach agreement between ourselves. But before I go back to the provisions - to get it out of the debate - on the subject of Amendment No 24319, known as the 'Kounduras amendment'. To understand, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am a good listener at all times, or at least I am trying - why is this provision coming here? Is it because the Government of a genuine need enquiry has now seen, few weeks before the European elections, that this regulation is required without specific persons in its mind? Please tell me honestly: does this provision not have any faces behind it? You have legislated and proposed this amendment to us. I think it's too late, or am I wrong? Did you legislate and suggest it without having specific personal characteristics of candidates?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u84	It's not late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u85	It doesn't matter, it's indifferent. I'm not fighting her at that level. It doesn't matter. You have a right, and you are late to accept it, so it is your right. But, I ask, when this amendment was drawn up and came here, did it become unreported? Done in abstracto, not in concreto? Not in favour of a particular person, not in a racial battle to keep a virtual parliamentary majority of SYRIZA a few more weeks? Didn't it happen like we suspect? Are we the bad guys and the extremely suspicious? Are you doing so in favour of the proper administration of the law and the right legal system? Because, Minister, the last argument I expected to hear from you is the argument you were addressing earlier, when you were risen - I think - because one of the rapporteurs of the Civilian Responsibility Officer said something about the time between regulation and elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u86	Your rapporteur has said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u87	The regulation you referred to has our consent and your consent. You had voted. Didn't you object to the cross issue in the elections, or do I remember wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u88	You have an objection now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u89	We have an objection. What does that mean? It means that while that regulation of the Samara government was in a positive direction and had the general consensus, your regulation is from the evil and not in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u90	As to the content...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u91	That's what it means. Minister, please don't insult our logic! Don't insult her! It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u92	I'm sorry, I won't interrupt you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u93	No, I don't mind interrupting me. For God's sake! I am simply saying that you and I understand that this is an amendment from the evil one. Do not defend it with that argument! It can't be done. There is a question of blocking recruitment. Minister, you have defended this very strongly. Would you be a little upset? I'll be a little sad. If you consider it so serious, the least you have to do is the provision you bring to be serious. I'm telling your legislator that the layout you're bringing is a pussy. I, too, use my words here very carefully, ladies and gentlemen, and you know it and I will tell you why it is a pussy. Do you know what the layout says? It says "the appointments and recruitments of permanent and private staff of unlimited duration at IATA I and B" and their legal persons, as long as the notices for the fulfilment of these posts were published by the AACC prior to the announcement of municipal and regional elections". Right? Is there a call for municipal and regional elections, ladies and gentlemen? Is there such an administrative act? Tell me, Minister, can't it by law? Or does he not know what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says here, which tells you that the one who wrote this provision doesn't know what he's saying? You are speaking in a non-existent manner because there is no starting point. And this device is displayed as a top-level device here. And the Minister and various rapporteurs buy how important it is. And you don't know how to write the great layout. Are we slapping into something? Once again, let us put everything quickly on the last day, and let us legislate what we want. There's another one of them inside. You'll laugh later. Ladies and gentlemen, I also understand a few other things. What is Article 105 for the National Electoral Network? Is the attempt to institutionalize the state against theake news and all the unacceptable things that could happen from the misuse of the internet? To get together again, is that the Greek state's institutional response, which is necessary, is it? Two months before the elections, with one month of implementation, the government, which did not succeed in six months in creating a verdict for the vote of Greeks abroad, will implement a policy to deal with fast news, for which the world community is trying and fighting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u94	In forty years you didn't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u95	Excuse me, to understand, the Internet problem is forty years old, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u96	I'm talking about the vote on the payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you don't sound and let's not open a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u98	I answer what you say and you will comment on what I say. I said for the vote. Forty years you haven't done that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u99	Minister, you don't sound. I'll give you time, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u100	You'll give me one more minute. I don't mind the Minister interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u101	I said that you did not do so for forty years for the vote on the Foreign Protestants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not telling you that we have rightly done so. I do not remember, however, and that you in your election programme had told the Greek society to choose you to repeat our mistakes. If you had been elected to repeat our mistakes, then excuse me, Minister, but I have been wrong. However, I have the impression that you were elected to correct the wrong texts. You repeat the bad texts and delete the good texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u103	That's what we're trying to do. Solve in six months what you have not solved for forty years!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u104	What six months? You've been five and a half years in government. Although you don't want to leave now, of course, it seems a little bit of a time! As Homer, however, said, Mr. Minister, "he is an imar." Tell me, since I see that there is a legal sensitivity, that Article 39 lays down the essential conditions for the naturalisation of indigenous people from countries of the former Soviet Union only by decision of the Minister, without reference to the law, is constitutional or unconstitutional? Refers to Article 39(3): ‘The essential conditions for naturalisation, which must be met in the face of the applicants for membership, shall be laid down by a decision of the Minister for the Interior.’ Is that a constitutional or anti-constitutional provision? Is it not an example of a provision taught in legal schools as an anti-constitutional provision? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The legal authority, ladies and gentlemen, is not free. The Minister, as this law says, can legislate: whoever is smiling at me, whoever looks at me sweetly, whoever I see is tender. Really? Is that the legal authority? Whatever the minister wants? Where do we live? Do we live in the ministerial dictatorship? There are a number of decisions by the Council of State on the constitution that say these provisions are unconstitutional. And there is a clear comment from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. We're not looking at that either. Well, I don't want to comment, because as far as I can see, I have a little longer than my time and I don't want to exhaust the President's kindness, but, Minister, can I finish asking you for a correction so that we don't all become a fool? In Article 46, for which you also have elements of pride, you write: "...a person belonging to the Roma with a long historical presence in Greece". This is the definition of citizenship of stateless persons. It refers, in other words, to a person belonging to the Roma - be careful - who is stateless, we have no evidence of him, but probably only an act of birth. And how does the legislator formulate it? "With a long historical presence in Greece". Minister, do you have a long historical presence in Greece, do you have all the certificates? Do I have a historical presence? Does Mrs. Buddhism have a historical presence? To find out what words we use. I imagine, if I want to let myself think, that what the author meant here is "with a long history of presence in Greece". I imagine if he wanted to say something that had a reasonable effect, that's what he'd say. Ladies and gentlemen, I find the presence and breath of the Minister difficult from what I hear and I understand that because I tell you again...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u105	My breath's fine. Thank you for caring for my health! I'm fine!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u106	Of course, at human level, I am very concerned about your health, and I have to tell you, Minister, and with an internal melancholy element, such as when you are socially consonant with people whom you will not see anymore, because they will have departed from the place where we are now. Therefore, I sincerely treat you with particular affection and care very much. But I say to you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that what can be done at this juncture, at the end of a government, is the executive power, which proposes, to be serious, to realise that, through the eternal proliferation of rhetorical regulations, it is completely alienated from whatever credibility it has left in the electorate and also to realise that the logic of civil and civil democracy is the rotation of power. And right now, what is obvious is that it will be the Greek people's crisis is the change in power. It's not for death. The parties also survive in Opposition, and we wish you at this stage of your life to do well, with every success. For a government, however, ladies and gentlemen, you are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mr Papaliou has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three comments on what has been said by the Parliamentary Representative of Officers, New Democracy, and a fourth which I would like to propose. When elections are held - and they will take place on time, Mr Tindemans - then you will be surprised with the result, if you believe that the victory of the New Democracy, as you see it, is a given one. The people have memory and judgment. First of all, you said that there was confusion in the SYRIZA and the government. I think, on the contrary, that there is confusion in the area of the New Democracy, and that is first of all the fact that, after the country's exit from the memorials, your policy is identical to austerity policies, with the policies of the memoranda, which you want to obscure. It also results from the different positions of your executives. Your own, Mr Dendia, of the truly decent and serious parliamentary representative, but the neoliberal extreme right-wing positions of others in the NW, who unfortunately give the tone to your policy, has been adopted by your Chief. A second comment concerns neoliberal views and extreme right. The views of Reagan and Thatcher are, of course, turning back into the past. But the New Democracy is coming to adopt such neoliberal views. And let us not forget that neoliberalism goes hand-in-hand with extreme right-wing authoritarianism, since austerity policies are only promoted by repressive and authoritarian policies. And a third observation. Criticism - you have made them, even by a few minutes - about how to legislate, testify, debate and vote for bills which contain many different topics, I would like to make a point. The fact is, the way you legislate is not always the best. It needs attention, because the laws are addressed and implemented by the administration, and they are the subject of citizens, businesses and all those concerned. In this respect, the different issues that are judged and regulated fall within the competence of a Ministry, not more. Therefore, even if these matters are not directly related to each other, their regulation is the responsibility of the Ministry itself. Today's life is running. Developments are such that arrangements are made on various issues for which the time for training, consultation, discussion and voting are pressing, so that if we leave ourselves in the normal process there is no possibility of dealing with various issues that need to be dealt with. The House, if this were to be the case, would have dealt with many issues in times exceeding parliamentary periods. I am not speaking only of urgent or urgent arrangements, for which time limits are suffocating. I also talk about issues that exist or arise in the day-to-day life that, if they are not regulated, are cumulated. The same, perhaps more, applies to the amendments. Let us hope that after the neck of the memorial arrangements and the fast track legislation, things will be improved, especially by promoting the work of codifying legislation. Let me come to the bill which, as I said before, contains three chapters. I will confine myself to the first on promoting gender equality. For the first time in the Greek legal system an independent institutional framework is introduced to promote essential gender equality, prevent and combat racial violence. The aim of this is to create the basis and conditions for the realisation of gender equality and the lifting of racial discrimination in all areas of public social and economic life, by providing for policies, measures and actions to be implemented by the state, but also by civil society and its collective organisations. In particular, this draft law provides for the obligation of the State to eliminate all kinds of direct, indirect or multiple gender discrimination and adopt political and positive equality measures. The taking-up of the relevant competence by local government is a positive development, since through the social and gender equality and local gender equality committees, a substantial change in attitude and culture can be achieved in all areas, and this will reduce racial inequality significantly. In addition, the bill incorporates the principle of equality in public policies, in public budgets and in the preparation of administrative documents, regulates gender mainstreaming in all aspects of public and social life, forms and organises a network of structures across the country to act to prevent and tackle violence against women, and in this context, provision is made for drafting equality plans, i.e. integrated and interrelated interventions, carried out by public and private enterprises, implemented following an analysis of the existing social reality and setting specific objectives, strategies and practices. Furthermore, further encouragement of women's active participation in the political life of the place is provided for by increasing the percentage of women's participation in candidates in the elections by constituency, etc. The same applies to the education sector where it is proposed to further encourage the development of gender studies, gender-based research and gender perspectives for all education groups. Let us not forget another thing, namely that measures are being taken to tackle the problem of violence against women. To this end, an integrated network of structures and services is planned to provide psychosocial support, legal advice, but also to provide safe accommodation for women, victims of racial violence. These are consultancy centres for women operating under the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and municipalities, for hostels for abused women operating by the municipalities and for the 24-hour universal SOS phone line. All this, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, is neither a legislative arrangement, nor a legislative activism, nor a symbolist obsession, nor a verbatimism. They are based on the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the European Union and on the Greek Constitution, and these policies are determined to implement them to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. Mr Casiniris has the floor from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u110	As far as citizenship is concerned - because this is the major issue, because in very few generations Greeks, based on your own design, will be a minority within our country - a permanent position on the Golden Dawn is that you are born, you are not by any legislation, by any presidential decree, by any ministerial decision. There is an organised plan to alter the Greek population and the last stage is what we are experiencing today. With foreign funds, with funds from the Foundation "Soros", the alteration of the population of Greece is attempted and of course the only force that resists is the Golden Dawn, because New Democracy in all these anti-national legislations, even where it is alleged to vote negatively, is differentiated only on important issues, while accepting the substance of the bill. The essence of this bill is to give citizenship to any illegal immigrants invading our homeland. As I said before, this is a global plan and we see it in all the countries of Europe. We in no way want Greece to have the image of England, for example. The mayor in London is Pakistani. You would love to be elected Pakistani mayor in Athens soon. This is, of course, not going to happen and the reactions are already very great, and the percentages of the People's Association - Golden Dawn in the capital of Greece are already very large, even though SYRIZA is united with New Democracy on national issues. They vote together against Greece, they vote together on the creation of Islamic mosques, i.e. they vote together on the Islamisation of Athens, the capital and then the whole country. They voted together on the Mozambique amendment which gives unconditional asylum to those illegal immigrants who are illegally invading Turkey. The coexistence pact was voted together by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Alexis Tsipras, who aims to destroy the traditional image of the Greek family. Of course, as far as the change in the population promoted by SYRIZA by this legislation is concerned, the same programme is for New Democracy. When Mitsotakis says he will give two thousand euros to any child born in Greece, you understand that the Roma, Pakistani, Algerians, Moroccans, all those who have illegally entered the country and of course the New Democracy has committed themselves to giving them an allowance. You have seen what is going on with all the allowances and even the benefits of the pyropathics, how the Roma invade where these allowances are distributed, who give birth to children for the benefits and which you all want to grant on the anti-constitutional arc. With all this, of course, you aim to increase your electoral clientele, because the Greek has turned your back on you and you want to Hellenise the hordes of illegal immigrants, in order to vote for you in the future. I'm opening a parentheses here. Keep an eye on it. I do many tours in the Municipality of Athens and I share the election brochures for our candidacy with our programme, because as we know we have no room in any media to make our positions known. So I get caught by some citizens and they say to me: "Mr. Cassidy, we are Albanians, but we will vote for you because we must finally get a class in Athens". This is a phenomenon that I have noticed in all the districts of Athens. Take good care of it, you who legislate and give right to vote and citizenship to foreigners. Watch out for it, because even that can turn you around, boomerang. A criminal situation has been created with regard to the electoral map in the capital of Greece. The right to vote has been granted to 40 000 foreigners. We are talking here about organised illegal attempts to alter the election result. In the five hundred thousand Athenians, where half the people vote, that is about two hundred and fifty thousand in the municipal elections, forty thousand will be foreign. In other words, 20% of the votes will come from foreigners. In fact, you're telling us that with your legislation foreigners will make a mayor in Athens. Of course, this fact is very easy to explain, because your great fear is the constant rise of the Golden Dawn, especially in the capital of Greece, which can also give a huge message, because according to all the polls, the real polls, not the "miamia" - although lately you have not even presented "miamia" polls for Athens - we are very relaxed over SYRIZA's candidate in Athens. Even the systemic poll released by "OPINION POLL", gave us almost two units above SYRIZA's candidate in Athens. And it's not like that, it's not that simple. To see the real percentages, you need to look at the betting companies, which are the companies that get the real polling rates and from there they give odds. Because Bobolas, who has the biggest bet company, is not an accident. Bobolas also has all the real polls on your candidate, the SYRIZA candidate for the Municipality of Athenians gives almost three times as much performance as he gives us. I mean, if he comes out and you bet on him, you'll get three times the amount of money in case of our own choice. This means, if you put them under mathematics, that we are about seven points above SYRIZA in the Municipality of Athens, that we are going to go through the second round and that will be a huge slap in the nationalist policy of the present government, but also of the New Democracy, which has no real difference. For this reason, the amendment which is coming here today, which concerns the forthcoming elections, is an amendment which serves an illusion plan, and I say this in the light of knowledge. You double the electorate so that there is no supervision over all the polling stations. It could be very easy - because there is no point in putting two polls on the municipalities, a polling for the municipal council, a polling for the community councils - to do so as it used to be, where there was a ballot, mayor, municipal council advisers and lower apartment advisors. If you were going to change something in the management of the municipalities and give more powers to the Community councils, of course, we would talk about it, but here on the substance of the matter the Community Councils will have the role of a ballot in the operation of the municipalities and instead, you put two ballots and two other ballots on the region and on the European elections. That's where the ball is literally lost. You'll break the polling stations in two. It will take twice the number of supervisors to check the illusion plan that you are organizing and that is why you are putting civil servants, officials in the regions to do the work done by lawyers, because they are "your own children" and you will be able to very easily through your "your own children" to serve your illegitimate plans, of course, the same plans that are served by the conspiracy of silence on the positions of Golden Dawn. I saw that on Sunday all the candidate mayors of the anti-constitutional arch came together, from New Democracy to anarchists and anti-powered at the “Serafio” swimming pool, saying how they will fight racism. The only racism that exists in Greece - and this racism the Golden Dawn fights - is racism against the Greeks, who even in the municipalities, this racism occurs when the Greek cannot take his child to the nursery, because the foreigner makes "black" cuts, makes false statements to the tax office - if he does - and has privileges on this subject too. In all the benefits of the municipalities are privileged foreigners and the Greeks are in second degree. I'll hang up with this. Our aim, despite the organized draft of alteration of the election result through the election of foreigners, despite the organized draft of electoral fraud through today's amendments, is to assure you that Golden Dawn will be on the second round of municipal elections for Athens, we will crush your candidate and nationalist Left and then we will go to the second round for the final race with the nationalist right. There, even if you unite and see phenomena SYRIZA say "vote the Neo-Democrat", we will not have said our last word, because that is where the party staff will not decide and the voters are sheep. There for the last reason will the people of Athens have him and will give you a very strong answer against your ethnicist policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 27th Municipal School of Volos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Giolas of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Papatheodorou. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. We have an answer to the issue of 'Neoliberalism and New Democracy'. Whether or not the neoliberalism of Greece has been agitated, as your parliamentary representative, your resignation, Mr. Treasury, and simply New Democracy, as well as your co-government, has been, and has been, supported, strengthened and assisted by the state. A number of examples of this draft law are: workers' unions in local government. Whose choice was it? In health, hospitals, food, laundry, cleanliness, similarly to speculative contractors. Has your resignation been lifted or not, ladies and gentlemen? But you are probably saying, of course, that the bad neoliberalism and the Chicago school, which Mr Denkias at least admitted - and I will not object - is now extinguished. But now, your Chief isn't the one closing the eye, accepting and encouraging private Pinochet security? Is he not the one who goes out to the insurance companies and promises to provide health services not complementary, but above all, always referring to the private initiative? Not to analyse the contractors of large public works, for which so much capital has been fruitful and so much over-profit. However, we also need to proceed with the bill, which is indeed a big bill. I will devote more attention to what is institutionalised and guaranteed in order to ensure the essential gender equality. You have burned down, Mr Colleagues, rapporteur of the New Democracy, the bill and you passed it, I think, as a Syrian structure, an invention, resulting from ideologies, masts, ideas and let's say proclamation. This is where I'm going to reverse the question. You should respond to what measures the New Democracy has taken to avoid discrimination in the social, employment and, more generally, public life, which you are now pointing at and recognize, although you have never wished to introduce innovative and radical measures for the effective equality of sexes, even beyond the mere incorporation of European directives. What, then, are the targeted interventions under this bill? Obviously, it is not easy, simple and enforced by proclamation or legislation. We must also intervene at the idealist level, that is to say, in the battle for the lifting of patriarchal society. The eruption of obsolete, but deeply established attitudes and perceptions, cannot be achieved with some individual or unconnected measures, but with the continued effort to recognise, shield and improve women's rights. So this is a bill which, for the first time, I would say that it codifies the issue of gender equality and also introduces certain provisions aimed at combating racial violence. I shall briefly list some of these measures, which are enough. Firstly, the drafting, monitoring and implementation of the National Gender Equality Action Plan, undertaken by the General Secretariat of Gender Equality. Secondly, the Central Council of Gender Equality, which, as a nine-year-old body of the General Secretariat, carries out an assessment of equality policies at local and national level with academics and experts from Greece and abroad. Third initiative, initiatives, measures and reports by each Ministry, which are compulsory and accountable on an annual basis. Fourthly, the general budgets of the Ministries must be accountable to the extent to which measures on gender equality have been taken, but also to the way resources have been allocated to combating racial discrimination. Fifthly, the maintenance of statistics by public services and all legal persons belonging to the general public sector, while having to record and send them to the Digital Observatory. Sixthly, the introduction for the first time as a disciplinary offence into the public service code of the use of a language of racial discrimination in work and employment. Seven, the well-known increase in the percentage by sex from 30% to 40%, at national representation level in the upcoming elections. Eighthly, the introduction of the promotion of gender equality is expressly and precisely through our educational system, where we need to act above all, namely discrimination and stereotypes. Ninth, the granting of special paid leave for the protection of maternity during the submission of a woman to the procedure for medically assisted reproduction. The fourth, an extremely encouraging measure to combat discrimination, is the establishment of the 'Equal Opportunities' institution for enterprises, awarded by the Secretariat-General to reward those who practicably promote essential gender equality. There is protection, in other words, of maternity, equal pay for men and women, balanced gender participation in management posts. Eleventh, the National Broadcasting Council adopts directives incorporating the principle of gender equality, but also imposes penalties on broadcasters which violate the obligations of this draft law. Dodecaton, known women's consultancy centres and hostel houses. Apart from the measures to remove stereotypes against women who are now also characterised by the state as progressive, another issue which is dealt with and the bill being passed is the fight against violence against women. It is another stubborn struggle that needs to be won in order to restore equality, because violence, ladies and gentlemen, has existed and unfortunately still exists at the expense of women. Where violence is not carried out, there is also fear that in extreme cases there is a powerful relationship and in relation to subjection. In other words, it leads to an undoing of equality, self - adequacy and self - disposition of the female parent. So all of this answers to your simple questions - your arguments, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me two minutes to support an amendment which has been tabled, of course in consultation with the Ministry. In view of the complexity and difficulty of the parliamentary elections, which have been taken and of other care measures, there will obviously be a lot of judicial officers, particularly to help, prepare for the election process and prepare for the election process, but also during the monitoring of the election results. So far, officials' situations have been legislated and the gradual charge has been in six steps, from I to F. Recently, a Presidential Decree of 2012 was limited to four categories. So the third and fourth category, which, under the former regime, meant officials who have had a quite great experience and a long presence, therefore on the presumption of knowledge of holding elections, must be reduced. Therefore, officials who can hold elections to all judicial grades - first instances, audit conferences and others - must and can do so if they have joined the first and second categories and therefore have a sufficient long presence and experience of the object to be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Mr Papatheodorou, I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr Fotou, in order to develop an amendment, so that you may have the opportunity to sit back and forth. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. This is an amendment with a general number of 2042 and a special 100, which concerns the law on taking up or adopting, which, as you know, you voted for last year - and you, Mr Papatheodorou - and which will be implemented electronically in the next few weeks. During the elaboration and during the processing that has taken place throughout the entire secondary legislation - I would remind you that the OSH and OSH were twelve - some points have emerged, which we are amending, by strengthening the nature of the law and not by clearly weakening it. That is why I am telling you the paragraphs. These are ten paragraphs of this amendment which are as follows: in paragraph 1, we amend the following: In the special register of minors kept in child protection and care units, as you know, the name of the child's brothers must also be mentioned. This was considered necessary, precisely so that after the search for the elements of their origin that it would be easier to do so. We're talking about his physical family, that is. Paragraphs 2 and 3 concern all children who are not in institutions and will, however, be given assumption or adoption. In this case, they shall be made compulsory in the Special Register of Minors. In other words, there will be no child anymore, it is or is not in the institutions, which will proceed to takeover or adoption, without being written in the Special Register of Minors. It is something that we had discussed, but it had not been clearly captured. We've clarified it. I think that's very important too. In paragraph 4 we have seen that both the famous "matching" and in general, in order to get children out of the institutions, the individual Family Rehabilitation Plan, ASA is necessary. There was no law. This makes it easier to match each child's individual family recovery plan, which will be registered in the Special Register of Minors. In paragraph 5, because, as you know, children are abandoned in public hospitals, but also in public maternity hospitals, we give the possibility to public hospitals and maternity hospitals, if a child is abandoned or if a child is brought by an appeal order, to register there in a special register. So we also open special registers of minors in the hospitals and maternity hospitals of the country, which I think will help to ensure that no child is lost and not know where he is. As far as paragraph 6 is concerned, one thing we had not predicted was if a parent is considered inappropriate for a foster parent - paragraph 6 speaks of a parent, whereas, for God, paragraph 9 - what happens next. Can't he ever be judged again? That was an omission. He can be re-approved after three years, given the negative suggestion in his file. But he can be re-approved. In paragraph 7 there were manifest errors of mistake. In particular, it referred to a ‘case or case’ that was not in existence. So that's correctable. in paragraph 8, the words ‘and the municipalities’ are deleted; As far as paragraph 9 is concerned, I have already mentioned. Paragraph 10 makes this: Once a child has already been placed in a family and we expect adoption to be finalised in the court, the record of the minor must leave the Special Register of Minors because he is no longer available. You understand. He's already made it clear that he's going to that family, so we're waiting for him to finish, so he doesn't have to be in the juvenile records. The same for the child who is applied for assumption. Finally, in paragraph 11 and paragraph 12, there are manifest errors of the amended provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative from the Democratic Assent, Mr Papatheodorou, has the floor and will be followed by Ms Kavvadia, Ms Vultesi, Ms Megalo-Economist and the Parliamentary Representative from SYRIZA Mr Vakis. Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will start with the amendment, which I consider to be an amendment to the transaction. A raw, cynical, uncovered transaction of willing persons proposing a place in the Euroleaf without disrupting the fragile governmental majority. This majority, which is now composed of moving Members who have willingly come to this bank of bank transactions opened by Mr Tsipras. Why, though, is it a cynical transaction? Because Mr Tsipras simply needs to give some political exchanges to MPs and ministers who keep him by translating them into power. However, I am very afraid that this gift is poisoned, as we say, since the way out for the willing Members and ministers depends on the confidence and decision of the Greek people. So, since this confidence is being evacuated every day, you should give them the opportunity to remain willing to do so in the government and in the House. So keep them after the election, Minister. The transaction is again in the interest of Mr. Tsipras. Because in the critical election time, the possible non-political restoration of the will will not be entrusted to them by the Greek people, is depreciating Mr Tsipras' obligation towards them. This is the fate of those considered by the Prime Minister to be consumable, who will glorifyly await promised political exchanges. However, what is causing more than all the rest today today is that unequivocally introduce this amendment a few weeks before the elections, proving once again that you are now moving only with electoral and political purposes in the prospect of a run-up. The problem is not just the raw transaction, the political exchange. Go to the European elections, stay with the Ministerial Council, support the government, and if you are not elected, stay with us until we have elections. That's not all. It is the fact that you at the same time consider that, with this amendment, you are making some sort of electoral surprise. You come to legislate a few weeks before the European elections, changing the terms of the game. However, the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that you can no longer make an election surprise, so do not attempt to use such methods that damage the parliamentary population, which destroy the electoral process. It's bad for democracy. It sends a bad message to the citizens, because they think that the normality you are talking about is the unsuccessful political transactions. This is about the political system, not just about you. So, a failed attempt is because everyone knew that somehow you would restore these colleagues, but on the other hand, you want to keep the chair of power. The second point I would like to make, Mr Minister, is a point which I think concerns you as well because of the constituency you were in the last time. Look at that. It is not possible to hear a single word from SYRIZA when there is the UNSCR in Kalamata. I'm making a report that, I think, you'll understand. So when there is a GPSD conference in Kalamata, which breaks the forces of the PDP and prevents it from starting and operating, when eighty-working centres of the country are denounced and there is no announcement from SYRIZA, no announcement from the government, no announcement from the present Minister and, above all, from the police sitting and watching all this as if it were seeing a police movie on TV, it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u117	The police? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u118	Come on, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u119	And it's unacceptable...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u120	What you're saying is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u121	...because you're covering up these methods. It is unacceptable because, on the one hand, we have anti-democratic methods and on the other, we do not even have an end to saying that something has been done. Something happened after all. Something happened to keep the conference from happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u122	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, I continue, because I looked for the central announcement of SYRIZA. So either you are uninformed or you should be explained why they did not make an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u124	I repeat, you're liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Thebes!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u126	Let's go down. We're going on gender equality issues. Indeed, there is a very important field. Positive equality has been enshrined in numerous texts, not only at the level of common law, but also by constitutional and international Union law. I am referring, for example, to the explicit constitutionalisation of Article 4 and, in particular, to labour relations - Article 22 of the Constitution - and it has been emblematically added to Article 116 of the Constitution, to the great and successful 2001 revision, which for the first time recognised positive measures, positive discrimination measures for women, in order to promote equality in practice. At Union level, it is worth focusing on the 2000 Directives on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons, regardless of racial or ethnic origin and 78, again in 2000, on the establishment of a general framework for equal treatment in employment and work included in the 2005 Act, and thereafter in the 2016 Act. At legislative level, in addition to the fundamental law of 1984, which established equality in Greece, for the implementation of the principle of gender equality in industrial relations, and the 2010 Law on the implementation and promotion of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women, in matters of employment and work and in 2012 for the implementation and promotion of the principle of equal treatment in the course of self-employed activities, as well as - and I must acknowledge it - what many of the scientific world have claimed, women's organisations, as well as the one suspected to tackle domestic violence, which has become a state law in 2006. However, a number of provisions were adopted to combat discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation, particularly in the field of work. In order to tackle and remove discrimination, however, and ensure essential, real equality, there is no need for new legislation of a declaratory nature, no need for new institutional texts and institutions, such as those which, in turn, are established. On the contrary, what is needed is systematic duplication of problems and effective administrative actions at a preventive and repressive level. The country does not only suffer from pluralism, it suffers from large gaps in the implementation and implementation of the laws. What is needed, therefore, is a substantial guarantee of equality through administrative actions. Even in the case of a positive prediction - the bill in our opinion of setting up advisory centres for women and hostels for women - we see that even today, this is incomplete, since there is no concrete provision to ensure the material conditions for the implementation and financing of these actions. Minister, I come to the second very big issue, which raises this bill, which has neither a beginning nor an end, but has a stitch of provisions. I come to the second issue of citizenship. If the draft law was intended to speed up the procedures of citizenship, so that the waiting time would reach the time provided for by the law, you would have included in the explanatory statement the table, Minister, that you have posted on your Ministry's website. So you have a table that informs interested parties of something very important. And I invite you to give him to the House, because I was looking at him this morning. You say that at the moment at the Athens Nationality Service interviews are being held for those who had applied in the first quarter of 2015. We are in 2019, in the first quarter. It's been four years. In most services there are interviews, ladies and gentlemen, because you are interested in the issue - for requests submitted in 2015 and 2016. People, of course, should feel lucky in these areas that they did not apply to Thessaloniki. There, according to your data, interviews are held for 2013, i.e. six years later. This is what I consider to be an insulting picture of public administration. The bill is not going to change it. I have the opinion - and I will support it - that it extends it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u127	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u128	I'll prove to you immediately how. Above all, it forms a situation which, over the last four years, instead of changing, is simply getting worse. I read a cynical comment under the board. You tell candidate Greeks to look at this table to be informed of when they should be concerned about whether their case has been delayed. Five or six years for a man who decides to get into the process of naturalization, Minister, don't you think it's too late to start worrying? If we were to tell you to make an application today on a matter that concerns you and subsequently realize how you would receive an answer in five or six years, how would you feel? What do you say? You would just say: ‘It is a point of view. You're not bored. Leave it.’ It is, in fact, deeply undemocratic categories of candidates, such as the spouses of Greeks with children or citizens of the Union, who need to prove three years of legal residence in Greece to apply for and complete seven more until their request is answered, a total of ten years. For what? Is that the acceleration you're making? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What if something goes wrong and they're waiting for all this? So they will come to this situation, ladies and gentlemen, who have found my student at the University, who had not yet taken Greek citizenship for 15 years. These are not just system distortions. These are the Greek state's policy towards all those who want to become Greek and who fulfil the elements. Because, as I told you before, it is nothing else to have a marriage with Greeks, to have children, to live in Greece and to have to prove what is self-evident. It seems that with your new practices, the candidate Greek citizens will no longer be concerned about when their request will be examined. They'll lose all hope from the beginning. Until a new system, such as what you are proposing, will be suspended for some time, so there will be further delays. And I predict that it will either be abolished before it works or we will live scenes of infinite beauty, worse than the ones we live in today. The arrangements you have brought do not raise any improvement, Minister. You have to withdraw them. You need to withdraw what has to do with naturalisation and bring realistic proposals to deal with problems. And to be honest, the next government to bring it, because time is over. And you understand that with such procedures, I don't see how you can operate in the short space left until the elections. Taking into account the provisions on naturalisation, the positive provisions you have brought about for the Roma, for the relatives from the former Soviet Union, for children with mental or physical disability lose their meaning. There's no staff, Minister, to get these things done at the Ministry. Laws are not simple provisions and blesses, nor is it sufficient to vote for provisions to demonstrate a Minister or Ministry's sensitivity or a state, a state's sensitivity. It must be able to implement and work for it. Otherwise, it's a mockery. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] If someone runs the chapter of the draft law on citizenship, he will see that the services are charged with new obligations. Is there any care to strengthen staffing or simplify procedures? Is it a question that today representatives of my relatives asked me this morning, saying: 'Will we go with the same services? Then we will have more delay." On the contrary, I think it's happening. Officials are less than ever and after what you bring, we will see a wave of departures through mobility or in whatever way each and every one finds, because the volume of work will be very burdensome. For the purpose of naturalisation, for the second generation, for the definition procedures, services will constantly try to close one hole after another. I have noticed that the new Republic's colleagues have kept low on this issue since the start of the debate. I do not think it has been because they are in line with the bill or because they suddenly see that there is a progressive approach to it, which you are proposing. They have nothing to say, because you are finally coming back with the draft law, Minister, in the pre-2010 situation. In other words, you are going this whole issue of naturalisation before 2010, to the regime in force in 2009. And I think that there you should explain why this centralised structure, which reminds us of other times. Why does the indifference for people who want to claim to be Greek citizens? I conclude with the last part of the bill, where, in fact, the government admits the failure of 'CLISTEN' only a few months after its adoption by introducing amendments and changes. But the upgrading of self-government cannot be done with patches. What is needed is abolition of the existing law, debate from the outset with all the relevant players - self-government and politicians - in order to lead to a sharedly acceptable sustainable plan. This has failed. You are simply trying, through the self-government elections, to hide the few forces you have behind certain candidates, to have small municipal and regional groups, without an impact on the policies of the municipalities and regions. The timing of the legislating of these provisions a few months before the self-government elections, a few days, sixty days, can only be random and innocent. But I'd tell you, finishing up, it's too late for that kind of trick. Your citizens show every day and more the way out of power, the path of escape. I advise you to follow him as quietly as you can. The profit for democracy will also be a profit for the progressive powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, twenty-one students and two educational sessions from Denmark's high school called "SONDERBORG STATSKOLE". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Cavadia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many and critical sections of the bill that we are discussing. However, because of time, I choose to deal with the gender equality section. I resist the temptation to comment on or answer what has just been heard by the colleague who has just come down from the Step, when it comes to the exercise of citizenship. I would just like to say that it takes a lot of nerve to swing our fingers by some, who have had the fate of the country in their hands for so many years and to speak as if they landed in our country in 2015. Let it be. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of gender equality is already provided for by the country's first post-constitutional constitution of 1975. However, in practice, equality has been left on paper for years. The inequalities in the workplace and the phenomena of racial violence, inequality and violence recorded in all the relevant reports of national and international organisations are only the tip of the iceberg, the visible and measurable aspect of a series of established practices and deep-rooted concepts, a society that, despite the changes of the last 50 years, continues, unfortunately, to remain patriarchal in all facets of the private and public sphere. It is no surprise, therefore, that the global increase in economic inequalities, due to the prevalence of neoliberalism and the memorial crisis in our country, first and foremost, women, confirming what is already known, that in a classly unequal Greece, women are still the first to be affected and compressed when labour and social rights are generally attacked. Any prejudice, powerful relations between the sexes, and ultimately the diversity of sexes, makes women the most vulnerable to poverty, social exclusion and violence. Acknowledging this unfavourable reality, the government has taken very important initiatives, such as ratification of the Istanbul Convention on domestic violence. In the same direction, in defending women's emancipation, the government is moving with the current bill, which we are called upon to discuss and vote for. As our rapporteur pointed out earlier, this is a draft law which contains a number of important, positive provisions aimed at promoting measures and actions to reduce racial inequality. Indicate: Articles 4 to 9 describe the mechanisms at central, regional and local level for the implementation of political measures and actions aimed at equal treatment of men and women and the monitoring and treatment of discrimination based on sex manifested in both the private and the public sector. In the face of self-government elections, it is worth stressing the upgraded role for the Elementary Committees of Equality, which are taking a leading role in the integration of the gender dimension into all policies falling within the range of municipal competences. Article 11 provides for the inclusion of the gender dimension in the general budgets of the Ministries, of legal persons governed by public law and public sector bodies, including public enterprises and bodies, where they belong to the general government. In the same article, public authorities are now obliged to account for their gender equality commitments and to link those commitments to the allocation, use and production of public resources. Article 12 provides for the prohibition of linguistic sex in administrative documents and the obligation of administrative departments to ensure that the guide drawn up by the General Secretariat of Gender Equality is implemented. Article 15 introduces an increase in the number of candidates per leaf from 30% to 40% per electoral district with a view to strengthening the presence of women in political life. Article 16 establishes a sanction on the non-compliance of the collective bodies of the administration with the obligation to represent each sex at 30% in their composition. This legislative initiative is taken by the Government because in previous years there has been a systematic violation of the sex quota provided for. Moreover, in the case of non-compliance with the quota, the establishment of the grouping shall be non-legal and the decisions of the null and void. Articles 17 and 18 contain provisions concerning the promotion of gender equality through education, a privileged field of action against stereotypes and health. Given that, ladies and gentlemen, the very important role of the media in the dissemination and reproduction of racial roles, it is worth stressing the introduction of an obligation of the National Broadcasting Council to ensure equal promotion of women in all private and public television programmes, with specific control and sanctions procedures for those instruments that do not apply to them and do not respect journalistic ethics in this regard. Similarly, the introduction of the equality mark, which is attributed by the General Secretariat of Gender Equality to enterprises, which are distinguished for the implementation of equal treatment and equal opportunities policies in both sexes. The corporate social responsibility of enterprises implementing positive measures to enhance equality in the labour market is thus revenue. At this point, I would like to point out, Minister, one omission which I should - I appreciate - is to see again. While specific articles in the bill are - and rightly so - a clear reference to sexual orientation and gender identity, there is no corresponding reference to gender characteristics, which is an exception which, I appreciate, should be corrected. Because, ladies and gentlemen, time is pushing, I will not go into other extremely important regulations of the draft law, such as the introduction of uniform, homogeneous, transparent and more rapid provisions of citizenship, which are finally coming to cure unacceptable delays that have occurred throughout the past period. I shall, however, conclude by calling on the opposition to vote, without small-scale bumpers, on the provisions aimed at the necessary radical changes that we need as a society not only to defend women's rights, but in general to deepen democracy in our country. Because when you defend half the population's rights, you finally defend everyone's rights regardless of sex. We need, as political forces, to show the greatest possible consensus in this case, because we all know well that rights have never been given a successful defence only by means of the adoption of certain laws. Laws are necessary, but obviously not enough. We need each and every day's attitude and the strengthening of the feminist current, the vigilance of movements, the proliferation of legal initiatives. Only so, with laws, but also with attitudes of life, we are worthy and worthy of the obligation to deliver a more democratic and fairer society to the generations that will come, the only credit for which it is important to serve public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. I would like to remind the Minister that it is pending for him to inform us what Parliamentary amendments are to be accepted, because there are many. He's fourteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u132	I have this in mind, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u133	I would ask you to let us know immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u134	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Sofia Vulture from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just before today's debate on the bill under the false title 'Promoting essential gender equality', the amendment, which put its mark on 'false text', now known as the 'Kounduras amendment', came in. Why 'Kudoura' tropology? Because of all concerned about the European elections, only this lady has changed her mind on the sceptic issue. Everyone else, as far as I know, did it with pleasure. In fact, it is questioned today by every Greek: how much more in exchange for Macedonia's tradition? How many more notes are we going to have? How far will this transaction arrive? And it is to wonder with the attitude of SYRIZA's fellow Members, who seem to be only rewarding for their signature for Macedonia will receive the loss of their seat. In fact, I imagine you will run, ladies and gentlemen, so that Mrs Kundura may be elected to your regions so that she can take a seat in the European Parliament, but you can be at home. From what I understand, you're doing everything for the hosts. And what are hosts? You know that. They're the ones who took SYRIZA's graft to their body and they take it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u137	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u138	You run for Kundura to get a MEP out and sit at your house after.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u139	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u140	After all, your dream was to make Alexander the Great’s first brother Zafe. Okay, you satisfied this dream of yours. You can go happy at home. But Mrs Kundura, who had another opinion, has to be rewarded. That's what I'm saying. So you give it all to the hosts. You know what hosts are. It is the animal or plant organisms - let those who belong - in which another kind of organism lives, which is fed by it. The host's epitome lies in these willing ones who came to support you for the Prespecies Agreement. But now, of course, that these different organisms often cause harm, and that is why they are called 'parasites'. Look, we have prespecies awards too. I saw we got tourist awards. Can anyone tell us why these tourist awards were awarded? Is there a reason? With what evidence was given? Because in 2014, Samaras, with Minister Kefalayannis, with twenty-four million tourists, we had revenues of 16.9 billion. In 2018 with thirty million tourists we had 16.1 billion euros revenues. I think 16.1 billion is less than EUR 16.9 billion. Unless you exaggerate the presence of many tourists, it's a center for our country, without revenue. Yes, I may accept that with the logic you have. However, with fewer tourists, more revenues and more tourists, less revenues, this is not a prize for tourism. It was just a prize for Macedonia's tradition. He was a Prespecies Award, not tourists. And that's what the numbers show. So you bring a bill supposedly on essential equality, a report of ideas, a verbatimism. Do we really miss the laws? We didn't have a constitution? Haven't we ratified all the conditions? I didn't get it. After all, everything you present today exists both in the Constitution and in the laws and conditions and the structures had already been created. And basically what you are doing is simply cause backwardness by the confusion. I would like to make the comments made by the Women's Rights Association, which you cannot say is related to the New Democracy. [[At this point, the New Democracy Member, Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What are you doing here? You are equating women's rights to the rights of various social groups. You are confusing the gender with sexual orientation and gender identity. But women, ladies and gentlemen, are not a social group. They are more than half the population. So you are confusing between the need to defend women's rights, which have a specific and exclusive role on their own, and the need to defend rights - respectably all - of other social groups. In other words, you are confusing the discrimination between the sexes and discrimination against other social groups. Another thing, however, is gender discrimination and another discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. Discrimination on grounds of sex, namely discrimination against women, is based on the need to serve the needs of society. And the problem we always have to deal with is the different starting point between men and women, because women also have other obligations. Discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity is based on issues of racism due to diversity and this has been regulated by Law 4443/16. So what we have to fight, that is, the social problem, is not being fought. On the contrary, you are confusing, so that we have these issues which we have also raised on the Women's Day, where in the first twenty years throughout the Europe of the 21st century we have been stagnating, which in the case of women is backwards. Why did that happen? Because women's rights have been smuggled together with other rights and have been integrated into this general chapter 'rights', and this has caused immorality, i.e. regression. Inequality in unemployment and wage gap remain. The problem is indeed facing the private sector. There is no discrimination between men and women in the public sector, to which the bill refers, because it speaks of the administration. Women are still not recruited because they may become pregnant. This is the case with the private sector. And they are still paid lower wages than men in the private sector. There is no such problem in the public sector. This is not addressed, you simply say the same definitions in another way. That's a problem. It restricts the concept of definitions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Most provisions are already a copy of existing provisions. You are actually stepping up the confusion because you say that the provisions of this law will be in addition to other laws. How's that gonna happen? In order for a law to come into force, provisions of previous laws must be abolished. Not all of them can apply together. Then why don't you do it and why don't you do it completely? Of course sexual harassment changes a name. It is replaced by sexual harassment. But that is not the issue of equality. Equality issues concern women's rights at work and social life. Conclusion: You wanted, as you usually do, to do something and eventually do something that instead of going forward, we're going back. Read from the Minutes what the Women's Rights Association says. And eventually the only winners at the end of today will be the ones who did what you asked them for Macedonia and losers will be the women whose problems you do not solve. In other words, you have solved a woman's problem by throwing away all women's problems. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u141	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mrs Megalonikou, we will give the floor to the Minister of Education, Mr Gavroglou, to refer to two parliamentary amendments. Here, Minister, you have the floor for two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the amendment of a general number 2047, tabled by Mr Sevastakis, a Scientific Committee on Standards and Experimental Schools is set up at the Ministry of Education. It is a seven-member committee, with two LGD members, two members from PECF and three teachers, who have served in standards and experimental schools. The Committee will carry out all the procedures for experimental schools and for the standards of schools. The second amendment is tabled by Mr Thivaios and Mr Stefos and has a general number of 2046 and a special number 104 and concerns the authorisation of the Minister of Education to determine academic qualifications in the recruitment of categories of secondary education and compulsory education. This will be done in proportion to the qualifications of university education. The hundred and twenty months of pre-service will obviously not be affected and there will be a balance between academic skills and pre-service. There is also moleculosis in the psychologists sector, in the IP23, who have fifty months' pre-service in special therapy as psychologists. This is more clarification of what we have voted on. And finally, I'm going to make a comment. There is one amendment tabled by Mr Karras and his colleagues, the amendment with a general number of 2041 with a special 99. This amendment calls for legislation on the transport of pupils and students and artistic schools regardless of their distance. This cannot be guaranteed by law. In fact, all students and students should be transferred here. You understand that this is a huge cost. We should see those cases where they have heavy organs. It's nothing unfair to be generalized. It's a purely budgetary issue. We will be in touch with the Ministry of Interior, which is the Ministry which finances these movements, so that we can come up with something perfectly realistic. Mr President, I do not know whether or not I have to say that I would ask the Minister to accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u143	At the end of the day or when the Minister will be placed on all the amendments, he will refer to your own as to whether or not he will accept them. Ms. Big housekeeper from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the colleague of the New Democracy, Mrs Vulture. He gave a perfect performance, "Bultepsida". But it was not for the Greek Parliament, but rather for the Epidaurus. I advise you, Mrs. Vuldesis, to join the National Theatre.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u145	Please, Mrs. Big Economics, don't make any personal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u146	No, Mr President, he has a talent for an actress excellent. I almost cried.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u147	Please. Don't give me that now. Let us get to the bottom of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u148	No, I don't take it back, I keep it. Let her take note of the fact that the National Court is waiting for her. A few days ago, then, we celebrated World Women's Day. This has given us the opportunity to bring the issues of gender equality to the fore. We have - I believe - taken steps in this direction so that women can move forward and demand greater participation in political and social economic developments and are seen daily in various areas. However, this is unfortunately not enough. We want a more substantial safeguard in equality, and that is provided by our Constitution in Article 4(2). Inequality now, discrimination and all forms of racial violence are present because of established practices and attitudes. After all, according to the Declaration of the United Nations General Assembly in 1993, violence against women is a manifestation of their lower position than men. That is why it is absolutely essential to establish an independent, necessary institutional framework, which will provide for all those instruments and mechanisms for effective management by the state and for the encouragement of other actors in society to take appropriate actions contributing to the common objective of eliminating all kinds of racial discrimination, inequality, in general injustices and racial violence. In this direction, this draft law moves forward by promoting gender equality and, for the first time, throughout all lifelong and legal relations between both private and public law with targeted interventions and in a systematic and integrated manner, the mechanism for taking measures and actions to achieve gender equality at central, regional and local level is being organised in order to improve the coordination of the institutions with the respective responsibilities and, at the same time, to have greater flexibility of action. Their actions will aim at strengthening, improving, extending benefits or structures, strategies and measures to change attitudes, training and awareness-raising programmes, the creation of networks and the development of work with civil society and the enhancement of the participation of women in decision-making centres. For the first time, there is provision for monitoring the budgets of the Ministries and of all public services in order to allocate, use and produce public funds to promote measures necessary for gender equality, and the competent bodies will be accounted for in order to implement their commitments. Also very important for the participation of an even greater number of women in our country's political life and in the decision-making centres is the percentage of the number of candidates per gender from 30% to 40% per electoral region, thus achieving a very representative democracy and obligation to represent each sex at 30%, in order to be legally represented by a collective body. In addition, arrangements are made to promote gender equality through education and health. The area of education is the most important area where sound attitudes can be formulated and healthy attitudes can be promoted for the proper conception of relations between the sexes, which must be based on equal treatment rather than on one another being imposed. As far as the area of health is concerned, access by women and girls is facilitated, especially those belonging to vulnerable social groups at all levels of public health, by making use of the institution of the mediator or health mediator. Moreover, in the field of work, which is also the area which is treated with considerable discrimination and inequality in relation to sexes, measures are promoted in this draft law to eliminate them and encourages businesses to deal with them equally in terms of remuneration and prospects of professional growth by granting the equality mark. I would like to stress that we need not only the equality mark, but also the equality and equality mark, because we do not forget that the Istanbul Pact, which arrived in 2011, was ratified only during the SYRIZA era in 2018. For seven years the governments have not ratified it. In 2018, Mrs. Vulture, it was ratified. With regard to effective control, if the provisions of labour law are complied with, and if discriminatory phenomena are observed, the Labour Inspectors' Chamber, the own-initiative inquiry into whether there are unequal treatment at the workplace and the legal protection of workers is judicially enhanced, with provision for the possibility of intervention in favour of occupational differences in trade unions, workers or employers, chambers and other associations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, it is particularly important that the obligation for the media is laid down to equally promote both sexes, to prevent the use of sexist speech through them and thus to help SMEs eliminate sex stereotypes. I would like to point out that they are not just sexy stereotypes, they are racist stereotypes and I stress this. In fact, I was made in a panel such a racist comment regarding my age. Age in Parliament does not play a part. It says over eighteen till we die. So that's what New Democracy colleague will pay for by lawsuit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u149	Ms. Big Housekeeper, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u150	All these arrangements, as well as those which provide for the creation of a network of structures, in which women continue to hesitate to denounce cases of inequality and violence and are the victims of such phenomena, are an integrated and effective effort, which sets the foundations for effective equality between the sexes, so that we can talk about a truly democratic and progressive society in a social rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u151	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Vaki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should particularly like to focus on the first part of this draft law entitled 'Promoting gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence', which contains thirty articles, which are guided by the spirit of eliminating racial inequality in the slippery scope of work, which is either economic inequality and exploitation in terms of pay or inequality in terms of labour growth or the exercise of racial violence in the working environment. After all, the lifting of the racial inequality is also a lifting of the exploitation of labour and the other aspect of the lifting of human exploitation by human beings. The economic crisis did not give rise, of course, to racial inequality in the field of work, but has extended it by showing dramatically that women are the first victims of redundancies, the most vulnerable group in insecure and flexible working relationships. Furthermore, the right to maternity is being circumvented in practice - although regulated by labour law - since there is a prejudice against women - mothers to recruitment. But it is also extremely difficult to balance motherhood and professional careers in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to the most important provisions of Part One of the bill. Firstly, almost two and a half centuries have passed since Olympia de Guse wrote in the "Declaration of Women's and Citizens' Rights" that the woman has the right to go up the scaffolding, she should also have the right to go up the step. It has been over a century since the right to vote and stand for election in women has been guaranteed, with our country falling dramatically, giving this right just in 1952. This draft law, therefore, provides for a 40% quota per electoral district for the national elections, at last realising equal access for women to parliamentary life. Another important provision of the bill - which is the second point - provides for the performance of a gender equality mark in order to reward businesses implementing gender equality policies. Thirdly, this is the first time that in public administration documents the use of provisions which involve direct or indirect discrimination. This is the first time that, in the reports on the consequences of the arrangements, each draft law includes the consequences of gender. Fourthly, it is legislation to ensure equal access for women to all private and public television programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, all this does not constitute a legislative alibi to racial equality or simply to guarantee its formal dimension. All this is not a democratic pretext for a society that is far from being affected daily by cases of racial violence, feminism and recent massacre - literality and transfer - women's dignity and public sphere. Although a gap separates it from the right, everyday life from the legislative act, the theory from the act, the facts from the legislative rule, the legislative reforms and the sectors, the product of time, are translated into social attitudes, they form consciences and they break stereotypes. The big bet that needs to be won is, on the one hand, the translation of the provisions of a bill into applied policies - and, on the other, effective policies - the insight and hegemony of the ideas that stumble it in society. On the first point, we have not, for example, been enough in the recent past in the reports of ideas and general and blurred convictions of trafficking, for example, this refreshing slave trade, which annuls and all the newly manufactured rights of freedom, equality and dignity. We have not been content with tens of victims of domestic violence, conjugality, domestic rape, genital mutilation, sexual harassment at the workplace and all those who, unfortunately, become undeniable witnesses of the undisputed promise of equality and a story repeated as a tragedy. And we did not do this because we ratified about a year ago the Istanbul Convention, which our country had signed since 2011 and remained in drawers. We have been called over seven years to ratify a convention aimed at combating and eradicating the exercise of freedom of movement of any kind by preventing, monitoring, protecting victims and prosecuting the perpetrators, but also guaranteeing the right to international protection. Is this legislative activism with no opposition, according to the criticism of the rapporteur of the New Democracy? I ask: Is it a symphony of right, of which we in SYRIZA are suffering, in the usual reproach of someone else who used to be beating and mourning bells, when individual bills were passed for individual rights of a typically liberal rule of law? I would like to remind you that at the moment there is a network of sixty-one global coverage structures, a SOS telephone line operates, thirty-nine consultancy centres, nineteen victims' hostels and two hostels of the National Solidarity Centre. We are going to go to another topic, to balance the family and working life of women, which involves, among other things, the recovery of demographic ageing. He cured a policy that is not just based on preferential benefits. On the contrary, it is based on the construction of structures of a social state. And in particular, we should go to the number of payrolls for the children's stations that increased from eighty thousand to twenty-seven thousand. The huge deficit in the buildings found - it is sufficient to bear in mind that of the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities almost half had structures for infants - the Ministry of Labour has come to cover, giving 15 million euros for building or repairing - the restoration of structures. And, of course, it is worth emphasising the extension of the full-day schools, schools of equality and quality, as well as the provision of school meals which are dictated primarily by educational reasons. Therefore, all of the above are in no way presumptions of legislative activism or general legislative magistrates which remain abstract provisions without scope. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by the brief time I have with the provisions on citizenship, but by insisting solely on the ideological scope of the debate, which I consider to be extremely important at a time of extreme right-wing, nationalist extremism and the breaches of hatred and racism, 'orbanisation' of a continent that gave rise to enlightenment and liberation and suffering from historical amnesia. Love, therefore, for the chosen self and hatred for the other, the irresistible cries we hear - we hear and hear - "You will never be Greek", or "Greek you are born, you are not born" are symptoms of historical amnesia, but also of nationalist exile. And the impulse of racism and nationalism has been murdering. He even attacks refugee children, such as what happened the other day in Bilia Attica, closes the school door and deprives the sacred right to education to students who happened to speak another language or have another skin color. Let us reread the story and learn. And it is the identity of citizenship with the law of blood that gave birth to the laws of Nuremberg in 1935, which provided certificates of clean blood, that deprived citizenship of the citizens of Germany until then and placed people in their lives worthy and worthless. So, this identification of citizenship with the purity of blood and race opened concentration camps and threw human rights north on the “elect race” involved in a war of extermination of the “lowest and lowest”. And because our national anniversary of 25 March is approaching, let us remember King Ferraeus. In 1797, therefore, in the echo of the French Revolution, King Ferraeus in the “New Civil Administration” designates as a citizen who, regardless of religion and language, the administration is targeted to be a worthy resident of the country. It is therefore not a privilege for citizenship. It's a right. It is not the bloodlines that give it, but isotope, isopoliticalism and dignity as the coordinates of a rule of law. So the great bet of this bill - and of every bill, which constitutes legislative safeguarding and guaranteeing rights - is to be transformed not only into implemented policies, but also into hegemony ideas that will become the pretext, the raw material of a democratic society and guides on the road to enlightenment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Messini School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pratsol Anastasios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start my speech otherwise, but on the occasion of what Mrs Vulture said about tourism, I have searched everywhere. I didn't find the final results, but I found some evidence from ELSTAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u155	Elstat's.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u156	Yeah, that's what I'm reading. Nine months...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u157	What nine months?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u158	Mrs. Vulture, I listened carefully. In the nine-month period we had an increase of 10.3 in tourist traffic and a reduction in revenues we had 19.2 of which 17.1 are from incoming tourists and 2.1 from Greek tourists. We had an increase in hotel revenues of 12% and 31.4% in archaeological sites. I'm saying these, because eventually the New Democracy has made its make-up political challenge. That's what it seems, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u159	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u160	We are here today, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss a bill from the Ministry of the Interior. Some say he has three different places. I would say that the core of this bill has three time-consuming values: democracy, equality and human rights. Here we are seeing a profound innovative effort by the Ministry of Interior, which aims to eliminate discrimination based on gender and guarantee equality and equal treatment, regulating issues relating to the strengthening of the representation of women in the House and the institutions of local government, the provision for the operation of advisory centres for women throughout the country, as well as the operation of hosting women victims of racial violence. As far as the 40% quota is concerned - and to repeat this once again it is not a women's quota, it is a gender quota. We need to understand this - I would say that it is an important step towards equal participation in the public. It was originally introduced in "CLINEN I" for the self-government elections and now the turn of the parliamentary elections has come. I would just like to add that, in addition to the innovative regulations introduced by the bill, equality requires a constant struggle not only of women, but of society as a whole, for the full and practical safeguarding of equality, so as to stop racial inequality, discrimination, inequality of opportunity, exclusions, which are unfortunately seen as data. With regard to citizenship, it is planned to reform the naturalisation test, to simplify this process for homosexuals from the former Soviet Union, while at the same time trying to address the issue of stateless Roma, a matter with a long historical presence in our country. Let us not forget that human rights have been the subject of various attacks and disputes for decades only within a democratic state, and that is why it is our duty to take care of them. Listening today to the rapporteur and also to the other speakers of the Golden Dawn, we must all consider the hatred that emits for anything else. It was mentioned before that "Greek you are born" and many others, which remind very much of the manifesto of the carnival of New Zealand, which spoke of the aria race. Let us all set an example here in relation to this story. I would, however, also like to go through the arrangements of the bill concerning local government, namely the changes of the 'CLITHEN' law. "KLITHENIS", this flagrant reform, is now the law of the state, enabling local government to make a great opening to society through deepening democracy and expanded participation. Let us remember that with "CLEARED" self-government comes out with more tools to pursue politics. The introduction of simple proportional, referendums and other interventions stimulates local government. This is reflected by the so far nominations in the municipalities and regions. It liberates forces that had sat on their couch, mainly involving citizens in the electoral process. Through "CLOTHEN" self-government has the potential to exploit all the financial instruments, since the government has moved decisively towards strengthening the municipalities, both by mobilising the funds and by finding new funding instruments. The new NSRP's programmes for infrastructures and public-private work programmes to support ICUs with additional staff and increase the resources of the ICU will improve the image of the ICUs. A total of EUR 2.1 billion was directed by "Philodimos" to grade 1, which local government has never seen before, while projects and interventions to strengthen local entrepreneurship should have been implemented for decades. There are municipalities in the country today that have received up to 70% of their central resources. After cooperation and dialogue between the competent bodies, we have two very important improvements in this law. And it is important to say this because in the discussion process in the committee we have seen that almost all the institutions agree in all parts of the bill. The first is the change in the way the president of the communities is elected, which will now take place between the first two voters in the first two combinations. The second relates to the number of candidate municipal councillors, which must be at least equal to the number of seats of each constituency with the possibility of an increase of up to 50%. Once again, the government was accused of changing the laws just before the elections. If the government had not made any progress in these improvements, which were the position of the top two self-government bodies - the JRC and the HRC - they would still be accused of not accepting the demands of the agencies. Ultimately, what is it, since whatever action we have taken, the result would have been the same, since the Qualifying Opposition has long been lacking a serious argument and blames the government for any positive reform, inventing ways of bringing it back into negative. Listening to the criticism of the "KLITHENI" from the New Democracy, one wonders whether it refers to Greece and whether in so many years he was ruling he has the slightest sense of what he had done. It certainly has not reformed local government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. Today he states that a mere analogue will bring mismanagement. She forgets the phenomena of interacting over her days. The dominant theme of Part Three of the bill is the resolution of the outstandings for the benefit of local government employees, such as the 2018 3K notice for eight thousand hundred sixty-six, the largest notice ever made in the county payroll, pending the issue of final tables and exempted from the suspension of recruitment to municipalities due to elections. We believe that this is necessary, moral and necessary for the TATs, and that is why both the CEDEFOP and the HICP have succeeded, despite the ambiguities of some for party discipline. School guards who had been made available in 2013 are given the opportunity to return to the municipalities and of course to the posts they had before the availability. We hear protests both from the New Democracy MPs and from PASOK about allegedly rosphetological recruitment, while all of this is being done through the AACC, forgetting that the same eve of elections, whether municipal or parliamentary, had an orgyn of rosphetological recruitments. The people have no memory of goldfish. He certainly remembers all this very well. I therefore believe - and I conclude by saying this - that voting for this bill is a progressive democratic conquest of our society on issues of equality and citizenship, and it is also a practical demonstration of the will of this government for a strong local self-government in the service of its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u161	Mr Kelles Christos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the SYRIZA Government and others are coming to us today just now before the end of its term of office to test the reflexes of the House, bringing to the vote a draft law which is extremely rough and perfect for election purposes. That's right, Minister. You are to be loyal to the doctrine, "with the exception of any other provision", by vote, even on the eve of the elections. The bill has three legs. The first concerns gender equality, the second contains arrangements for the award of citizenship and the third is provisions for local government. I'm starting at Part One. You refer to various points in the fight against discrimination and the use of a non-discriminatory language in public policies, in public documents, in television, in the labour market, etc. In addition to the 40% quota on the Gender Equality Offices in municipalities, regions, CEDEFOP and ENP, I will ask what specific measures do you include for practical equality? Equality means first and foremost recognition of tenders. What is the greatest contribution of women to humankind and our society in general? Of course it's motherhood. What are you doing to support the Greek mother who is the support of each Greek family? All you do is bring the permission of medically assisted reproduction for seven days to Article 19. From there on, nothing at all. Equality also means protection. How is the dignity of a woman protected in the legal order? Are there severe and dissuasive penalties to combat abuse, embezzlement and rape? Of course they don't. This, of course, is not just about you, but about the whole of the National Representation. Generally, you focus on the terminologies of equality and discrimination, but not on their content, reprinting ideas and recommending councils, without any substantial programming. I come to the second part of the bill, to the rules on citizenship. Improved procedures for the acquisition of citizenship are uncovered. The purpose is obvious, to increase the percentages of Greekisms. With Article 32, the requirements of Greek law remain extremely low, despite the fact that you were retreated into committees, while foreigners over sixty-fifths can be naturalised without the conditions required for other foreigners. Furthermore, while the Committee on Culture has so far been in a position to fulfil the conditions for the award of citizenship, it will now only be judged on the basis of the test, the content of which will be decided by the Minister. Is this again in the process of determining the nationality of the deceased in Article 40 what is this? What do you want to do with this arrangement to give citizenship to the dead? And how many generations back? To acquire citizenship and the subdivisions without being in Greece? I come to Part Three, where the failure of your legislative work here is monumental. Just last summer, Minister, bring 'CLITHEN', Law 4555/2018, which you are amending before it is still being implemented. The "walk" in local government has no limits and, of course, unequivocal purpose is government at all levels. The most scandalous, however, are the regulations of Article 82 and the exceptions to the suspension of recruitment in the LAGs only two months before the elections. These provisions are in interaction with the transfers to the LAGs, as well as with the increase in the maximum number of permitted fixed-term work contracts and the rental of work at grades I and II. Of course, the Minister has invoked to the committee that the mayors want it too. Why wouldn't the mayors want it if they benefit from this provision? I would like to turn to something rather unequivocal, the Kounturas amendment, as our rapporteur, Mr Vorides, has said, regarding the abolition of the incompatibility between the Member and the candidate. Of course, we are wrong here with this amendment. It's not just Kundura. Finally, I would like to focus on a point, which is particularly concerned with Article 105, where you define the establishment of a national electoral network for the use of the Internet in national electoral procedures. In particular, will officials of the Government control internet users with the committee on the proper use of the Internet? Is that what you're going to do? More for a policing of thought, this regulation seems to be more like a regulation than a transparency of the elections, as you are doing. If you really are so sensitive to the use of the Internet, why don't you tackle the internet bullying that is constantly spreading and taking more and more dangerous proportions? The aim is obvious: As we move on to your election and your removal from power, you will constantly be supporting more control tools and means of influence among the public and of attracting votes. The Greek people know very well that you are seeking to remain in power in this way. But the polls are getting closer and there you will certainly see the results of your policy. Of course, we are voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my reference to the draft law, I would like to express my disdain for the neo-nazi Golden Dawn's hate sermons and say that it is disgraceful that such things are heard in the Greek Parliament and even to use such terms as 'lathonists', when you know very well that smuggling people do not exist. I invite you to speak from the Bureau on these reports, as is the case with all the public documents. Also, because the Greek society is listening to us, to say that the Golden Dawn wants women's purely reproductive machines of a race, and not only this, but also tools within the framework of a supreme patriarchal mechanism. I say this so that we do not come here and say what we want, although until now we are not concerned with what the Golden Dawn says, because it wants this Step to get rid of it. I'm coming back to the bill. We are talking today about a very important bill both because it resolves a number of issues for local authorities and because it strengthens the legal framework for human rights in the country. We have to point out here that the changes to 'CLITHEN' come after consultation of the authorities who supported them in the relevant committees. I would like to point out, however, because a lot has been said about dismantling self-government and other unrealistic things, that at the time that SYRIZA governs there have been so much funding targeted, but also support for staff, as there have been in recent years. This can be fully confirmed by local self-government, because we have received it completely devalued both in resources and in potential and delivered to the workshops of the contractors, who overcrowded them and gave them EUR 200 and 300 to the workers and, of course, without increased democracy, as they currently have, with the possibility of raising healthy powers through simple analogues. Therefore, the bill introduces very important subordinate provisions, such as the reintroduction of the hundred-dollar arrangement for the debts to municipalities and the exclusion from the suspension of recruitment to municipalities due to the elections for the thousands of posts in the 3K, with which you have been allergy, because they are permanent recruitments while you want contractors and contractors. Of course, there is a restoration of injustice for school guards, who on your own government and PASOK went to health services and now they can return to the municipalities that work. As I have said before, there are important rights provisions. Part One refers to gender equality and is aimed at emancipating women, which of course needs a constant struggle. Last time we ratified the international treaty against racial and domestic violence, the well-known Convention of Istanbul, which has not come to the Greek Parliament since 2010 and reached 2018. Now, with this draft law we come to legislative support the Gender Equality instruments throughout the range of public and private life by increasing 40% for candidates in the parliamentary elections, with measures to promote gender equality in the media and advertising, with the sanctions provided for by the PSE and the possibility of setting up consultancy centres and hostels of abused women in municipalities. Part Two of the bill refers to citizenship. The amendments we are introducing today for citizenship take place in the context that we started in 2015 with No.4332/2015 for second generation immigrant children and improvements in naturalisation. This cycle we are coming to complete to make the process of naturalisation uniform, objective and modern, to overcome the bad texts and delays that we have seen and to respect the rights of people living in our country all these years. I'll focus on some provisions. Article 32 shall reshape the examination system. So far we have had the so-called interview in the Committee on Culture. It is now replaced by a test, which will be carried out with uniform data for everyone to overcome delays, but also subjective effects or serious divergences in the procedure by certain committees. In fact, there has also been legislation which improves the provision and our own interventions. The paradox is reduced from EUR 700 to EUR 550, while in Article 35, which provides for the obligation to stay continuously after the application, we introduce legislative improvement with certain protectionist barriers so that this right is not lost in cases of absence because of study or other serious reasons, such as reasons for health. Then, in Article 47, the unacceptable condition of one year's inadmissibility of obtaining citizenship is abolished for one or another to participate in a public notice, which has, of course, brought discrimination against our fellow citizens and has been contrary to basic constitutional principles. We should also have in mind that citizenship is the ultimate - the top - form of membership, which is our bet, Minister, for the next period. Here it is surprising that even forces such as PASOK, in provisions initiated by their own law, Law 3838/2010, which came to the Council of State, do not directly and publicly support these provisions aimed at this process, but come and criticizes without evidence and without any specific arguments. It also comes to the constitutional review and does not vote for the right of immigrants to elections to local government, which also creates many impressions. This whole process and the draft law aim to enable the Greek society to live harmoniously all together, always respecting each other's diversity and, of course, to give a fist to fascist and extreme right-wing perceptions and behaviours, which have as their flag xenophobia and racism both in Greece and in Europe. These are the data, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that everyone in this Chamber must choose a bank: either with social rights and social cohesion or the Orban model, which creates scapegoats and an infinite jungle on the labour market. I am sure that our understanding, the concept of the Left, the movements and the progressive forces will prevail and will ultimately win both in Greece and in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u165	Mr Leonidas Gregorakos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the draft is concerned, no matter how much you want to take care of it, you can't avoid the designation that it's an arrogant. To show that the rulers do something, they put in a mixer of what they had in front of them and the result is a real pulp. They wanted to show gender equality, something they thought of saying about citizenship, something they felt it was appropriate to review the elections to self-government and along with all that, they said to put some garnish on the top issue of internet security. I have heard a colleague earlier talking about reforming the 'CLISTEN'. It will not go through society because it has not passed that it is the 'CLITHENS' reform. "KILLENIS" is the destruction of the "KILLISTRI" and "KILLICARAT". The fact is that all of this is in no way a policy. The best version is micro-political methods and arrangements. This self-evident assessment comes to confirm the amendment to abolish the incompatibility - the bill has been called the 'Kounduras bill' - so that the elected Member in the national Parliament can also be a candidate for the European elections. The unprecedented fact that the National Representation cares and struggles for the appropriate institutional formula finally to restore professionally all those who ran and provided support to the Prime Minister and at the same time for the government not to lose the parliamentary majority is truly tragic. You realise that this major issue is not a step out of the crisis. On the contrary, this is a huge leap towards the past. Instead of guarding politics as an eyewitness, the government nourishes cynicism and amoralism. So they are trying to make conclusive examples of aesthetics in the political MPs who have actually promoted the national interest, allegedly indifferent to the ministerial chair and the Euro-parliamentary term. The personal dignity of all of us, however, to have a situation cannot serve the small and the poor. Don't talk about the big things, because the air took them, either because they proved delusional or because, as comrade Tsakalotos must have confessed a few days ago, but the day before, when Simitis spoke to Thessaloniki - he got sick or something didn't go well - "we fell out in the calculation of our powers in relation to those of our opponents". The truth is that with the SYRIZA - ANEL we made Aristophanes timely. Only with an aristocratic attitude can we understand and understand what is happening today in domestic politics: Members sing, write poems, go to TV, I don't know how. In fact, we are witnessing an unprecedented entanglement of values, principles and even institutions. The governance of the site is now based on strategies. The gaze of the rulers is exclusively on the angular question: With what actions, with what moves will we achieve one, one and the other? Who? Our stay in power, gaining a little more time or trying to regain the lost ground. The realism of the SYRIZA - ANEL are seen on completely different criteria. Reality for you is not with what specific policies we will revive the economy, but with what benefits and retrospectively we will subtract votes. Realism for you is not with what reforms we will bring the country back to normality, but with which choices will perpetuate those who govern today. Realism for you is not with what social and political alliances we can harmonise with advanced countries in Europe, but with how you will use Community funds to broaden your electoral clientele. Fellowship colleagues and colleagues, your dimension with rationality is chaotic. Whatever conversion you make, the living reality is not going to change. Your populism that has entered deep into your medulla is reasonable to lead you to beliefs. As the Prime Minister, the people and SYRIZA himself recently strongly supported are the same subjects of history. Instead, they have one and only enemy, the elites. With compass of the dual people and SYRIZA against the political, economic and business elites, you are striving for an unprecedented struggle of manipulation, even the subjugation of the citizens. Because the economy is not your cause, as Mr. Tsipras himself argued, but it is the "black" hole in the economy - you see what happens with the pensions - you have taken over the surpluses and, in fact, you owe all businesses and all pensions. With yesterday's draft law, but also with today's honesty, you are bringing gender equality without saying anything specific. Because you are acting on the left, speaking of the 'first time on the left', if you had any connection with her, you would have to propose a single proposal: to combat the pay gap between the two sexes. We tried to bring it back last time and I was here and I couldn't. That's how some of them decided. I am against it, and I think that at some point the pay gap between the two sexes should be abolished. This is it, Minister, reform. Although there is institutional provision for equality, wage differences dominate the private sector. So if you want to be useful, come and tell us how the current inequality will be combated in practice. You plan to withdraw it to local government while at the same time the only thing you want is to dismember it. Given your patient presence in its multivalent space, you have chosen fragmentation. You dissolve the municipalities of "KALIKRATI" if you also ensure a strong reason and role while in practice establishing the rule of law for the municipalities and regions. "KILLENIS" is not one of your strategies, because at the same time you are making the obvious. You create wider state umbrellas, such as the famous Attica regeneration company, with the sole aim of riding the self-government. In fact, here is the paradox and provocative: The head of the newly established state body is chosen to be a candidate for the Mayor of Piraeus. In simple terms, with various vehicles that you have built in order to help your multipliers, you have no discomfort to trigger the project of undermining self-interest in the institution and all that the crisis has caused great damage to the sustainability of the municipalities and regions. If anything happens, it is not the electoral methods or the institutional change of the existing electoral process, but the institutionalisation of the real political and economic self-reliance of self-government. No reform proposal you have submitted in the four years that you are running or seem to be moved by the transformation of self-government into a central administration caricature. Instead, your focus is on how and what processes your political influence and resonance will be measured, disseminating the great losses that you will suffer in a cloudy and bizarre institutional framework for citizenship. We were used to such bills so far, for you are supposed to be in favour of democratic procedures and rights and you are left. Now extremity of the tomb silence! We were used to New Democracy picking up the world. Radio silence, mild tones and almost pretext criticism. We have not seen a single front page in newspapers, we have not even seen a report on a subject that has until recently raised a storm of conversation. Why is that happening? Because you are quite simply in agreement with the point. It's like you've legislated with the ANELs. You're closing the door of citizenship. When I was in your place, Minister, at the Ministry of Immigration in 2014, I handled two issues. We tried to solve with low tones and work whatever problems were, because apart from ideological disagreements with our partner, there was no question that the procedures should be fair and rapid, according to the law, and we respected the Services. We didn't kick it. With the Code of Migration we have ensured the legality of foreigners who were also affected by the economic crisis. We did it efficiently, and you know it. We have reduced the trademarks required for the renewal of permits and the world has been saved. Our legislation applies until today too. We have established the second generation's licence. If we hadn't, many children of the second generation would not only get citizenship, but lose their residence permit. You found a ready plan for citizenship at the Ministry of Interior. He had provisions for the second generation and for a naturalization. And since you are now legislating for naturalisation, I will remind you of what we have proposed at the time to compare with your own proposal. We suggested that a written test on citizenship be carried out as an alternative. Children cannot finish school, high school and high school and have not taken Greek citizenship. We suggested a way out and you legislate the deadlock. You turn the interview process into a process of examination, like they give all these people, young children, a license for driving and not for Greek citizenship. However, you do not clearly tell us what the procedure and content of the examination is, but you refer to relevant issues in subsequent decisions of the ERCF. With KLITHENI you carried citizenship services from the Decentralized to the Ministry of the Interior, without considering the consequences, without caring about the huge delays. On the road you lost officials and left behind the male records that, because of your curiosity, do not work and have delays there. Now give more administrative items to the services you dismantled. Commissions from here, commissions from there. Would you check that some of the people who asked for citizenship have been blown away for a while from the country, left for some time, so that you can take them back? Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law that you are introducing is not just battered, as I said at the beginning. Furthermore, the political and ideological slogan created by the SYRIZA Government, the government of gymologists and statements, is impressively illustrated. Election benefits, election, customer relations are now the great advantages of a Left that has dealt with the consolidation of political life, the fight against the old system, the elimination of corruption. Four years now, your governance has been reversed by concrete acts and actions, the democratic state. By faithfully following the Stalinist method "the purpose justifies the means", you do not have the slightest suspension and quarrel, as long as you promote your political and party goals. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, you will find us across the street and the people will quickly give you the same answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Dimitrios Gatis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill attempts to take a step towards achieving the essential gender equality. What is obviously trying to say from the outset, under the title of the bill, is that legal equality is not sufficient, as is the case with our legal system, and indeed with the country's Charter, to eliminate gender inequality. Those who do not want to be blind - because there are also such voices that have been heard several times in the last particular days of the bill - can only recognise that inequality is present at every appearance of private or public life. I could mention many examples. However, I am enough to say that the following. In work, for example, unemployment and low-paid work are steadily higher in the female population. Moreover, unpaid domestic work continues to bear almost exclusively on women, even where they work. In both these cases, discrimination against women is obviously the result of deep-rooted prejudices that result in wider sub-representation in public and private decision-making centres. Even worse, important women's conquests of recent decades appear to be threatened by the rise of extreme right-wing streams in Europe, but also in other parts of the world. Especially the extreme right now, which seems to regain, challenging women's emancipation, with the intention of restraining women at home and in the role of the wife and mother, is very strong. We have heard similar views expressed these days in both the European Parliament and in our own Parliament at the time when the bill is being discussed. The conditions prevailing in our country are traditionally not the best. Greek society is still dominated by traditional patriarchal models. Unfortunately, we have recent examples of extreme murderous violence against women and, at the same time, many cases of extreme sexism in the media. As far as I am concerned or can be authorized, I should like to convey my regret to the family of Helen for the tragic accident that caused some scumbags of society in Rhodes, thus slandering the Greek society itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u169	A crime, Mr Colleague, and not an accident.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u170	Yeah, crime. The new bill provides as a disciplinary offense for discrimination in the media speech to limit headlines that affect our own culture and undermine the credibility of the press. In the context of dealing with violence against women, and also in the context of the prevention of discrimination against women, the new bill provides for the creation of a network of structures across the country. In each municipality, equality committees are established in each region, while in Greece there is the Central Gender Equality Board, which is an advisory and advisory body to consult local committees and the relevant Parliament committees. Networking and coordination of operations is very important, particularly for regions which are also an important feedback for those who form a central policy. Through cooperation and interaction between the actors involved, civil society with its organisations, local authorities, Parliament, with all its committees involved, in cooperation with the ministries which draw up and implement individual policies, always bearing in mind the racial dimension, we can now have good hopes that we are heading towards overcoming racial discrimination. This is not, of course, a legislative abolition of the multiple and varied discrimination that women have to face every day, but society itself in every area of our lives. It would at least be naive to support something like that. However, we can take a step forward, a step forward in this direction, a step forward for women's emancipation and for Greek society as a whole. With regard to the other issues of the bill, it is very positive that this successful 100% institution of the JEPs is being strengthened by staff, but also by responsibilities, showing respect especially for the disabled, who were partly isolated. Citizenship, despite the fact that the latest service-level interventions have restored the speed of implementation and fulfilment of requests, is far too far away in technical details, which are now restored by the bill. The technical details are that people who ask Greek citizenship should know that they will compete or be informed in a certain number of questions, which will cover the whole range, social and political, of our country. With the intervention made to the electoral system and particularly to the communities, the role of the communities is strengthened, but I believe that there is still ground for their full independence and for their release from the central ballot, from this mechanism of dependence between the central municipal ballot and the individual communities, until they are fully discharged of this size of dependence and interlocutory. It is necessary, Minister, and the independent budget for each community, which should be defined in actions decided on by each community. In my opinion, however, the minimum number of citizens per community who will be obliged to the single ballot without head, through which the president of the community is elected, to increase to a quite large number. This, of course, is a conversation that opens from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u171	Next speaker, Mr Gregos, from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. We hear almost every speaker talking about the risk of rising the far right. Let us tell you, of course, that we are very pleased about this. It's been a few days until you've had this thing. I had the misfortune yesterday to watch a show at the state channel, the ERT. You're gonna tell me how I put up with something like that. Some guys were talking. I don't know what it was. Journalists? That's what they're showing up for. And they said that we are at risk from the rise of the extreme right, that Greece is at risk, that Europe is at risk. One of them said we can identify them, can be the man next door. These ridiculous things say on such ridiculous shows, closed as they are in their Stalinic crab. And so that they do not much wonder, something like that, of course, reinforce the rise of nationalists and that is something that you cannot stop. Expected, especially in the face of elections at all levels, with the relevant amendments - a reward for the recent political transcriptions that keep you in a flat minority for a few more months happily. Of course, these gifts to your candidate MEPs are translated into many thousands of euros, in addition to other benefits. Of course, in each bill you appoint your own children in every kind of position. Known the trick in your rotten and corrupt political system. The relevant directives have of course also been given, and a multi-level plan has been established for extensive fraud, particularly as regards the only political force that resists, the Golden Dawn, the powerful power of Greek nationalists. So, in this piece of legislation, you want to check in every way, both public services and the electoral process, since you know your electoral crash. At the same time, move rapidly towards the Islamization of the country - we have denounced it many times - by inviting hordes of illegal immigrants in consultation with the Turks and especially during the summer months, in order to build mainly the islands of the northern Aegean and then every city and every village of our country. Your benefits to illegal immigrants, in addition to the performance of citizenship, according to the bill and other bills, are food, shelter, health, education, money, immunity in criminal acts, with simultaneous persecution and terrorism to those who dare to react. Thousands of examples. On your side, of course, and the interconnected media and of course, as I said before, the state-runs of the ERT. All, a well-organised plan, with the support of the New Democracy of course - its own Abrahamopoulos - and other forces of the so-called democratic arch. Of course, the Prime Minister himself proposes as a solution to the demographic problem of the integration of illegal immigrants. We heard him a while ago. Your Stalinist methods are now evident to every citizen of this country and, of course, racism against the Greeks continues to exist. Let us remember here that the New Democracy also voted for the anti-racist law, as agreed with the Marrakesh Agreement, in order to overwhelm the country by hundreds of thousands or millions of illegal immigrants, with a simple request. What's first about this lousy piece of legislation? What article to preside over? But we and the Greek people also have a duty to show the most naive ones the dirty delinquent design by SYRIZA's brethren and the patriots of the New Democracy. The attitude of the rest of the parties is rather well known. We have often proved with document that SYRIZA and New Democracy fight with rabies anything national, anything healthy and patriotic. They protect every enemy of the country, and of course they state submission even to Erdogan and his ridiculous fantasies. Of course, it does not interest Tsipras and Mitsotakis that they will get rid of the islands of the northern Aegean and other regions of the illegal immigrants, but that they will become more right structures in order to keep nothing from the invaders. Of course, this is where fat business is being done through NGOs whose role has been denounced many times, but no one has so far been brought to justice. As far as the position of the woman is concerned, it is truly ridiculous and acidifying to legislate allegedly for the protection of rights, when your friends Islamists know very well that they are being treated in their own countries and here too. Golden Dawn honors our children the supreme values of our country, religion, family, women working or unemployed, civil servants, women serving in the Armed Forces and Police, health, education, rural women, wives of seamen, scientists, students and students. Thousands of such women decorate the ranks of Golden Dawn and give a great fight at all levels. Sick minds promote in the field of education conditions for the existence of three sexes or conditions such as parent 1, parent 2. You can forget these. We as parents and especially parents of young children are telling our children what science says and what is true. There are no three sexes. There's a man and a woman, there's a male and female, father and mother. And we warn in every direction: 'Down with our children'! Let us say here that even the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace grants 10,000 euros to the so-called 'Thessaloniki Pride', according to the request of its organisers in the programme - listen to 'new actions'. Of course, you once said that the refugee will be in specific schools, outside school, etc., now they are everywhere and soon they will enter the HEI or TEI, with other more favourable criteria or without criteria and rightly the parents will react. There's racism even here. Of course, everything with the support of SYRIZA and the New Democracy and various left-hand shades. Elections are coming. Golden Dawn will participate everywhere with victory lists and an integrated program. I would suggest that all of you on the anti-national arc should put off the rapid rise of nationalists. Don't wait for the second Sunday. You're all the same anyway. The red junta is now obliged to go to elections. He'd want to cancel or abolish them, but he can't anymore. In these elections, therefore, the people will have to blacken the candidates of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy and other formats to support with passion the Golden Dawn ballots. You are the most rotten and corrupt thing that exists, the most resentful and treacherous, you are intolerance, you are enemies of the country and of the nation, protectors of terrorists and servants of foreign interests. We are the voice of the Greek people, the hope of the nation, your nightmare and the dream that every Greek has to take home. A home strong and free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u173	Mr. George Pallis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u174	Your tie was folding! Ladies and gentlemen, the limited time we have for a bill so rich in positive provisions obliges me to focus on one of the three parts of the bill on the provisions of the Code of Nationality. Who is and who is not a citizen of a country is a matter that belongs to the core of the sovereignty of each state. The performance of the status of Greek citizen is a political decision. Even the mechanism established since the 19th century for blood reproduction has been differentiated over the years. Just think that until 1984, Greek citizenship was not transmitted to descendants only by the mother if the father was not also a holder. The state decides and the state creates a legal link with the citizen. So, you're becoming, you're not born. The acquisition of citizenship also constitutes a political right. With the acquisition of Greek citizenship, the Greek citizen's status is ultimately the key to most constitutionally guaranteed rights. It is a term to enjoy a person with an effective guarantee function of the State. The new Greeks are equal before the law says the Constitution. Not people in general. In that sense, the right to rights has also been recognised. Today, then, we are negotiating the process and the criteria for naturalization, bearing in mind the above. On the one hand, the Greek state has the power and creates the public ties to the establishment of the Greek people and on the other, our democratic state recognises the claim for political participation of people who have joined the country's social life, as well as recognises the equal distribution of public goods. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is the essence of our disagreements, who is entitled to part of the pie. Some usually dream of exclusive and special privileges. We believe that anyone who has made Greece the focus of their life plans and activities and has fulfilled their obligations vis-à-vis the state should not be deprived of the possibility of naturalisation. We forged the right of Greek citizenship to foreigners receiving Greek education and children born and raised in our country. In the same context, Article 31 to 49 of the bill restores further injustices in the acquisition of citizenship and corrects malfunctions of the naturalisation system. First of all, specific cases of population groups with particular features, such as minors, over-aged people, with severe disability and stateless Roma, are recognised and the criteria and processes for naturalisation are adapted so that they too can be included. The general principle of equality requires a similar treatment of the like, Mr Vorides, and prohibits the arbitrary integration of different situations. If we insist on the imposition of criteria for naturalisation which certain persons cannot actually respect, then the state is mistaken: firstly, because it shares against a category of persons, in this case with disabled people, who cannot attend the courses at a Greek school. Secondly, because it leaves out of the political system, without political and hence individual and social rights, people who ultimately have no opportunity to shape their own fate. In this case, the marginalisation of the stateless Roma is being stepped up. The same is the philosophy and logic behind the provision for the possibility of direct appointment to the public of the naturalized. The current differentiated arrangement finds no reason to support it. Why should we wait a year to give the right and the right to someone who acquires Greek citizenship? Do we think that in eight months, they are not as Greek as we would like? In any case, specific arrangements harmonise the Greek legal order with international conventions on human rights and Union law on the elimination of discrimination. The other articles in Part Two of the draft law seek to rationalise, clarify and accelerate the process of naturalisation. Basically, legal certainty is served. Firstly, the Committee on Culture decides and decides on the basis of a concrete examination of the knowledge of the Greek language and the other conditions of naturalization, an examination which is predetermined for everyone, which is also the same, uniform, predetermined rules and objectivity in evaluation. It is precisely the acceptable levels of language learning that are defined. The matter of permanent residence shall also be clarified during the examination of the request for citizenship. The procedure for questioning the nationality of a natural person is defined. Finally, a description is given of the establishment plan of the services involved by the Ministry of Interior Special Secretariat of the Ministry of Home Affairs. I think that the positive contribution of these arrangements is obvious and we do not need any further analysis in order for everyone to agree on their necessity, unless some really do not want it. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is not the dictatorship of many. The magic of true democracy is respect for the specificity and inclusion of the different. For me and for our progressive government, that is not only self-evident, Mr Vorides, it is also self-evident. The state process of naturalisation must be addressed equally to everyone. The consequences of having citizenship must be the same for everyone. On the other hand, it is from the status of the Greek citizen who derive the rights and obligations, which finally create the links of their institutions with the State and between them. This interconnection is, therefore, of interest to us because, through this networking, we will create the solidarity community that we are aiming at, not through barriers and protectionism and practical mechanisms that exclude and isolate. I would like to thank the Ministry for accepting the amendment to extend the contracts of work of natural persons providing health services to the KITs of the five islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I want to see the Bureau respecting ten seconds, Mr President. To make it more understandable, Mr Voridis, to those people who live and work for years in Greece who have learned Greek from their employers on the fields - on the same level they speak - who do not know what the highest mountain in Crete is and how many measures they have, and who go when their children are ranked soldiers and swear in their homeland and rejoice in their children, we cannot deny them the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u175	Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. We're really talking about hypocrisy. It is right that the Member who came down a moment ago, because the bill we are debating today is embodied in common. It has been admitted by both the rapporteur of the New Democracy and the rapporteur for the Democratic Independence, who have both said that they will vote for most of the provisions. However, they have even expressed their pain and their protest, because this bill of the three parties, which is so nice, is confused in one day and is unfair. Nevertheless, despite these statements made by themselves, today's debate focuses on an amendment and, of course, lies. We have heard Mrs Vulture tell us about tourism revenues of 16.9 billion instead of 36.9 billion and when she was said to be 'all right'. I'll fill in that 20,000,000,000.0 is the difference. We have Mr Papatheodorou to give the union's pathogens to the non-intervention of the police and to be fully identified with the decision, with the announcement issued by the New Democracy. I think that the full matching and effort to overthrow and not to discuss today's bill is evident. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, our country ratified the Istanbul Convention on the Combat and Prevention of Violence against Women, in such a way as to legislate at the same time and the rules that ensure the implementation of the Convention. So, instead of this piece of legislation, it would then be a nice report of ideas against violence, a wish of encouragement and extremism that would have referred to the existing legislative framework, which was indeed enough, a piece of legislation with specific provisions and sanctions for violating them. In the same sense, today's bill has been drafted, and I am referring above all to the first part, which deals with the essential gender equality. Because we do indeed have a sufficient legislative framework for equality in our Constitution, in a variety of legislations, but also in the European Conventions that our country has ratified. However, despite the strong indeed legislative framework, essential gender equality remains a question. The gap between women and men's unemployment rate remains high. Women are rewarded with 78% of men's pay. Women also have the poverty rate. Women's representation in decision-making centres is small. It also means that it is not enough to have legal equality, but we must also aim at real equality between women and men. And that is why there are necessary mechanisms for supporting and establishing specific provisions. The draft law before us creates the foundations and conditions for the effective gender equality and the lifting of racial discrimination in all areas of public and social life. There are policies, measures and actions implemented by the state, by civil society and collective organisations. Special rules resulting from the principle of gender equality are laid down in order to ensure the implementation of equal treatment and equal opportunities. The central administration provides for actions for the principle of gender equality. Each Ministry must present an annual report with actions and measures, as well as programmes, as well as an evaluation of progress. It is very important that annual action on equality should be assessed. For example, I mention the promotion of equality in the educational process, in public health, in social solidarity programmes, etc. Here, allow me to welcome the initiative of Minister Olga Gerovas on setting up departments to deal with domestic violence and abuse of women in the Greek Police. It was a void filled. Now, it is possible for poor women to resort to this special department that will advise them, guide them and suggest hostels and any other protection net there is. It also provides for the gender dimension in private life and employment and for incentives such as the rewarding of enterprises in the public and private sectors distinguished for the implementation of equal treatment policies and equal opportunities for men and women by granting the equality mark. It is also important to include in the responsibilities of the APRC provisions for better protection of women's rights at work, as well as the provision enabling recognised professional associations or chambers to intervene in labour disputes in favour of the party exercising its rights under the legislation on respect for the principle of equal treatment of sexes and the fight against discrimination. It would be inappropriate not to mention the forecasts for promoting gender equality in the media, advertising, the relevant responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council and the imposition of sanctions, such as fines, the suspension of authorisations by the National Broadcasting Council in the event of breach of obligations of specific provisions. In order to prevent and tackle violence, the support structures, hosting centres for women, hostels, etc. remain beyond the end of the current programming period. In other words, these structures are not dependent on a co-financed programme, but are an obligation of the state to provide it. In order to strengthen women's participation in politics, I welcome the increase in the percentage of candidates to 40% in the votes in the Parliamentary elections by constituency. In the same sense, the obligation to represent each sex is laid down at 30% in the composition of the management's collective bodies. We therefore have provisions not only in terms of proclamation but also in terms of provisions which are being supervised and intensified. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to ask you, Mr President, for a minute's indulgence. I want to say two words, two three points about the so important elements that are legislated in this draft law on citizenship. With the experience of the two laws, Law 3838/2010 and Law 4332/2015 on naturalisation, a uniform, homogenised, transparent process of naturalisation is envisaged with a view to upgrading the relevant legislative framework and reducing administrative legal proceedings and thus decommissioning the courts. In particular, the uniform rules laid down are based on the case-law of the Council of State, on the opinions of the Legal Council of State, etc. I would also like to welcome in this chapter the special arrangements for the resolution of Roma citizenship with a long historical presence in Greece. These are persons born in Greece by anions with a long presence here. A specific procedure had been provided for since 1979, which was subsequently abandoned in 2000. It is really a problem to have people without ID, people who are invisible, people on the margin, people who contribute to crime, and when we make them visible to these people we contribute to reducing and preventing crime and to the security of society in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u177	Finish it, Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u178	I'm done. I would like to welcome the amendment by the Ministry of Social Security on additions to the Special Register for Minors. I would also like to welcome the amendment to upgrade the JEPs. I also said nothing about what is included in the provisions of Part Three on local government, which are positive, deepening the simple analogue, restoring the school guards who had been made available by other posts etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u179	Before we continue with the next speaker, I will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, to present legislative improvements. Mr Vassiliou will then be followed to put him on a parliamentary amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, we are making some legislative improvements. The truth is, it's enough. I guess I'd rather we'd have had time to testify on them earlier. However, it is the result of the debate that took place in the committee over the last few days - I will refer specifically to two, three examples - but also this morning. I am pleased to see that the debate that has taken place has been substantial. For there are some - if you want - improvements and corrections as a result of both positions and on the side of the counter-population. You'll see the legislative improvements. I'm not going to present them one by one, obviously. I just want to say that, on the issues of equality, some changes have been made, as we had discussed in the committee. Mrs Christophilopoulou has also made a number of suggestions on terminology issues, which have changed. As far as citizenship is concerned, I will give an example: in Article 35, an issue had been raised, in relation to residents now living abroad, and their application and their call for consideration. Now we also include cases where, for health reasons or for study reasons, they live abroad, so that they do not lose the opportunity to continue the process of obtaining Greek citizenship. I'm going to give another example, Mr. Dendia, so you'll be happy to have the psychogram sooner. For Article 82, we had anticipated that. Indeed, there was a mistaken wording in relation to the announcement of the elections. It has been put into legislative improvement so that there is absolutely no doubt. We are talking about the start of the election period for municipal and regional elections. Also, because there was a particular debate in the committees - but today it has been heard - on Rule 105 in relation to the National Electoral Network, so that there is no doubt and no doubt - if you wish - objection or mistrust in relation to the nature of this committee, I would like to tell you that this committee is subject to and accountable for all its actions in the Intergroup so that all parties are fully informed and monitored. I have accelerated some examples only of the changes that we are making. I am making the legislative improvements so as to be at the disposal of Members and make any comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u181	Mr Vassiliou has the floor to support the amendment under a general number of 2033.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. This is a parliamentary amendment. As it concerns sport, I would like to make a very small position. With the new legal framework, as is the case in 2016, we are well aware that when a football anonymity or a general sports anonymity reclassifies and becomes professional again, the debts of the oldest anonymous company are revived. In the light of the changes made by Law No4603/2019 to the Committee on Professional Sport and on the basis of the previous and the functioning of this legal framework, this amendment is in the right direction, given that the revival of debts follows the same procedure with regard to debts to public and insurance funds. At the same time, it follows with the establishment of the new anonymous company that 50% of the debts to football, following the UEFA and the Greek Football Federation rules. The rest of the debts don't get lost. Clearance continues normally. If the creditors are not satisfied after the liquidation fee, they also resurrect these debts in the new OEM. I think the logic of giving a margin to the new anonymous company without anyone actually losing its rights to go ahead is important, given the complexity of a sports anonymous company and the involvement of amateur sports clubs. I would therefore ask the Members and I would ask the Minister to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u183	Good. Thank you, Mr. Vasiliadis. Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Marina Chrysovelloni will be followed by the State Secretary for the Interior. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, before I say anything else, I would also like to express my condolences to the Giannakopoulou family for the loss of Thanasis Giannakopoulou, the Panathinaikos family, which lamentes a very great fan, a factor, fan, Panathinaikos father, and of course all Greek sport. Because in fact Thanasis Giannakopoulou, like his late brother Paul, wrote a huge story about Greek sport and we owe them much. Minister, as I speak the sports with Panathinaikos, and I see you, I cannot tell you my anger about what happened on Sunday at the Panathinaikos Derby - Olympiacos. It is incomprehensible that twenty, thirty, forty - I do not even want to call them within the Greek Parliament - completely undisturbed by the state and the police to show these images of shame, once again, for the Greek Championship and Greek Sport, to destroy the efforts of a group such as the Panathinaikos, to move after a very difficult time and the state to be about absent. I would very much like you to tell us when, at last, you believe that the laws will be implemented in this country and those who do these things will be punished and not the group which has no responsibility and which will now be destroyed by them. Once again the state took zero. And in an introduction, to go to the bill, to the press, as we say, a moment ago, there was persecution for a pluralist time in Ms. Rena Durou, SYRIZA's candidate for the dead in Mandra. Again for negligent deaths, for breach of duty, for misconduct and so on. I know Mrs. Duru's views. I'll never see you again. We have also discussed this in the corresponding debate on Matti. What is very interesting, however, today is that the prosecution of Ms. Durou for Mandra is in complete contrast with the finding of general inspector Mr. Papaspyros, who, as you know, had issued her finding of Mandra by eight months of delay, was responsible for all the other persons that the prosecutor is accustomed to today, but curiously, she had forgotten about Ms. Duru. Well, what Mrs. Papaspyrou forgot about today was done by the prosecutor for Mrs. Duru. Because, at any rate, we have to understand that there is a state and that we have positions, we also have responsibilities. The posts go with the responsibilities. They don't just go with election wins and show.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u185	That's why he's taking them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u186	Whether it's taken, we'll see. Whoever's taking over them does not go down any more. So let's go to the bill now. First of all, I'm amazed. I heard SYRIZA's previous colleague, who started and accused us of hypocrisy and the previous one, Mr Gaki in particular, who was talking about racist expressions that are being moved, says, through media. Two weeks ago, a colleague of yours in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Ms. Big Eminence, went to a TV studio with a basket of some zarzavas. He saw Mr. Yakumato, he gave him the zarzavas - he considered this smart television move - and said to him: "I didn't bring you cucumbers, because you have said you are not a homosexual. Otherwise I would bring you cucumbers." Now, I beg your pardon, but this phrase is the most straightforward racist, sexist and unacceptable phrase on television.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u187	You're dropping the level!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u188	I see Mr Katamero revolt, because I have said so in the House. I'm dropping the level, he said. I'm dropping the level of the House, but you're sitting on the same parliamentary group as Mrs. Big Economics who did it! And you, Kamaterre, who I'm dropping the plane and you're leaving, you didn't have the courage to go out and say something against Ms. Big Economics! You're such hypocrites that you're going to come here to do a class for sexism and racism from the media. You who swallowed the entire cucumber of the Great Housekeeper and you've got the face to give us hints. If ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u189	What are you doing now? You're talking cucumbers in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u190	Make a statement, sir, about the Grand Housekeeper and condemn what he said, if you dare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u191	You guys are exactly the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u192	Are we the same? So, could I also be in your parliamentary group? You didn't tell me that! Mr President, please note. My fellow Member - I do not remember his name, so that I am not mistaken - said that we were the same as Mrs Megalon. So you're in your parliamentary group with an Adoni Georgiadis! That's nice! Because all day you found Adoni Georgiadis. So, what did you just say? That in order to keep your chair, and with Adoni Georgiadis you would sit on the same parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u194	Warm congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Georgiade, please, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u196	I just wanted to show up...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u198	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u199	I'm interrupting. A little lower-speaking, can't you talk? We all listen very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u200	I just wanted to show you how liars and hypocrites you are! You suggest the hypocrisy of others is above rivers! You for your chair don't stop in front of anything! And I come to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u201	Don't shout! Can you say lower-speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u202	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u203	They're a little bored. Minister, I was really in this Parliament, when we voted on the Prespes and Mrs Koundura crispy came here, took the floor, made an outrageous attack on me that I have targeted her and that I am unacceptable and even said that whatever happens to her I will be responsible. Why did I say? I said that it is incomprehensible that Mrs Kundura has changed her view of the Prespecies in six months and from where she said that not only will she be voting for it, but who will vote for it, in six months' time to hold her to the government and tell us how good a deal it is. And because I pointed out that Mrs Koundoura's vote was obviously not a product of ideological change, but a transaction, namely a takeover - not only in money, but also in a ministerial chair, with a seat in the European Parliament, the acquisition is done with any kind of service - so I claimed that Mrs Koundoura changed her vote and that the Prespes went through and Macedonia was lost for reasons of self-interest, that is, because of the takeover, Mrs Koundoura came here and said that I was swearing her. And thankfully it is this 'good' man, Mr. Haritsis, and he has brought this amendment today to prove me true. Why should we be serious about this, there is one in here, the most fanatical symbiosis - you, sir - who has not understood that today's amendment is a kind of takeover policy for Mrs Kouduras and Mr Danneli? So there's someone in this room who hasn't smelled it? And what does the 'first time left' do? It also excelles the Left, because you show in front of the eyes of the Greek people that in front of your selfish micropolitical interest there is no beginning, there is nothing, no brake that could stop you from staying in your chair a few more days. And I'm going to say that and I'm closing: I can't lie. I always had that opinion on the Left. I had no difference. However, I could not convince my fellow citizens who had suffered a group offense and thought that left-wing people are the people of ideas, of great positions, of humanity, of justice and of high-profile works. And you finally came, you SYRIZA gentlemen, and you deserved me! You have shown them who you really are to the point that you are to welcome me to your parliamentary group we have just seen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u204	And we're the ones who enlightened us. Not a word for the bill. Nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and three educational sessions from the 7th General School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Chrysovelloni, State Secretary for the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, may I have the floor to say something about Mr Georgiadis's report?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u207	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u208	First I'll argue with you. Penalties must also be hardened to football anonymity companies, which have a responsibility for the situation within the racing area, in terms of this part. Besides, the Greek police also arrested, in addition to the use of video material, which was already being investigated. My information is that there have already been two IDs. But we wait, because usually after three, four days we'll have better results. The main point, Mr Georgiadis, is that since last week, which is the law of the state, what we voted together, with the partnership of counter-population, for the first time we have a direct measure against what the incidents create. So I'm staying in this. We've got a long way ahead of us, but this is the first time the state has shown such direct reflectiveness. There's still more to be done. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u209	Good. Come on, Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after many years of immobilisation from the last attempt to table a comprehensive gender equality law and after years of preparation and consultation, the House is currently discussing the SYRIZA Government's draft law, the Ministry of Interior's plan to promote effective gender equality, the prevention and fight against racial violence, but also the arrangements for the award of citizenship, as well as the provisions relating to elections to local government and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. I come before you today, as a State Secretary for Gender Equality, who, for the first time in Greece, has assumed responsibility for the State area of gender equality policy. This is a decision that was made first in the history of our country by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and first implemented by the Minister of Interior, Mr Alexis Haritsis. But, today, I have come much more like an equal speaker in the past six months, a great society of racing women from all the parties in the democratic area, without much means, without much economic means, working to support women living in our country, regardless of age, educational level, economic surface and, of course, ethnicity, a significant number of people who quietly fight in their area of gender equality, against racial violence. To be here today and to discuss the first part of the bill, that of equality, each of them worked in their own way, women, active members of society. In short, I have met and talked or heard, with a view to the substance of the draft law on the equality side, in the last six months, I have taken responsibility for this, more than two thousand people, mainly women and men, hundreds of women's and feminist organisations, dozens of municipal and regional administrations throughout the country and representatives of the Church respectively. I recommend a collective effort, which has been done with a hard work of years, which has been done by institutions, organisations, movements, scientists, public officials, political parties, colleagues from other ministries, workers. I represent the work of all the officials of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and the Centre for Equality Research, that is to say, the bodies which are politically supervised by the Ministry of Interior and who are working to achieve gender equality in Greece. I am addressing you today, having the valuable experience of this very need, of choosing this one-way road. Respect for the existence and acceptance of the other, the focus on solving problems and the need for cooperation. Composition on division, pluralism against totalitarianism, the 'absolute view', persuasion and dialogue on violence, reasoning against irrationalism. I have just returned from New York, where for almost a week I have had the honour of participating in the work of the 63rd UN conference on the status of women. It is a leading meeting of representatives from all over the world on issues related to women, which takes place for one week every year on the occasion of the International Women's Day. There was an opportunity for me and for the Greek delegation as a whole to listen and listen. We have talked about the equality policies that are being implemented in our country. For the first time, perhaps at international level on gender equality, our country, apart from listening to and taught, had to testify and be rewarded. Our presence in the UN, my position here today, the bill we are discussing with a view to voting, is governed by the same philosophy. A holistic concept and approach to equality policies at local and national level. Of all dimensions, throughout the range, with all possible co-operation and synergy. It is a field of understanding, a possibility of converging, an opportunity for agreement and dialogue. Gender equality can only unite us. This draft law, in its first part, contains a number of provisions which were consistently required by the institutions for the protection of human rights, independent authorities, women's organisations and reasoning, since it introduces, for the first time, international conventions such as the Istanbul Convention, which were ratified at the initiative of the present Government by Law 4531/2018, the need to define different legal concepts, such as racial violence, gender mainstreaming in all policies, essential equality, and equality plans which are now part of the Greek legal order. This is an independent institutional framework to promote essential gender equality, to prevent and combat racial violence, the regulatory object of which is not exhausted in the adoption of signified regulatory interventions, restoring the principle of equal treatment between the sexes. In this context, the Ministry of Interior issued a public consultation on the first part of the draft law entitled 'Promoting gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence'. The consultation started on 6 March 2018 and was formally completed on 20 March 2018. In fact, however, it continued with numerous meetings up to a few days before the bill was deposited. We have spoken with scientific organisations, independent authorities, almost all women's organisations, representatives of parties, representatives of workers in the area of gender equality, first-line scientists, namely girls working in advisory centres and hostel houses, where the real fight to support women is on a daily basis. In particular, to these women who offer their services and to the victims of women, that is, to the benefit of services, I would like to devote this debate here in Parliament. It is a minimal recognition of the people who struggle in an invisible world to improve our society. The first part of this draft law, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, is structured into four separate chapters. The first chapter refers to the definition of the basic concepts of mechanisms and bodies for implementing the principle of gender equality. The second is the incorporation of this principle into public policies. The third chapter regulates gender mainstreaming towards private life and employment. The fourth objective is the establishment and organisation of a network of structures throughout the country, on action, prevention and treatment of violence against women. The regulatory framework of the bill covers all areas of life, from health and education to the labour market and the establishment of collective bodies. Accelerating the provisions of this Law briefly, I will refer to the critical provisions of Article 4, where central and regional political action is structured to defend gender equality policies in conjunction with international conventions, the implementation of the National Gender Equality Action Plan, after consulting women and feminist organisations, non-governmental organisations and social institutions in the public and private sectors. In addition, it is responsible for drafting and submitting the national report to the UN Commission on CEDAW. Articles 6 and 7 establish equality committees at local and regional level with a broad scope of action, leading to better coordination of state equality policies, but also address the specificities of each region in terms of population composition and the particular problems faced by each region. Article 9 establishes the National Gender Equality Board with a view to consulting women's organisations, social bodies, OTAs and representatives of independent authorities in order to assist the General Secretariat of Gender Equality and the TBR on political actions relating to gender promotion. Articles 10 and 11 refer to the functioning of the central administration, both in administrative documents and actions and in the way the budgets of each Ministry are drawn up, with the introduction as a crucial parameter for their formulation, of gender equality policy. Article 14 now introduces into the disciplinary law of the State the notion of violating the provisions of this law and follows in Article 15 the extremely important intervention of increasing the percentage of women's minimum voting threshold to 40% of 1/3 currently in force, but with the substantial addition of the constituency and not to its present territory. This provision, in our opinion, is extremely important, as it aims not to mechanistic and numerical attitude to equal opportunities for women, but above all to express the state's will to protect, by every means, the right of women to participate in the public, to open up the way for them and to encourage them to be actively involved. I am obliged, at this point, to urge the women of the country to stand for all kinds of elections, with strength and will, to encourage those responsible for each party, every local and regional party, to give them equal opportunities in the ballots and to invite women and men voters to vote for women who will stand for them while they vote for and trust men. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] I need some time, please. The Ministry of Interior is holding a campaign for this purpose, whose appearances you will be watching in the next period. For the first time, the establishment of collective management bodies is regulated and a penalty is laid down for their non-legal establishment on the non-compliance with the requirement of the representation of each sex at the statutory rate. I am referring to Rule 16. In the field of education, in accordance with Article 17, the principle of gender equality will promote the language and content of curricula, so that young generations will eliminate all gender segregation stereotypes, including the choice of professional careers. In the health sector, in accordance with Article 19, in particular, of supporting the demographic problem, we adopt paid leave for those women who follow methods of assisted reproduction. In the subsequent provisions, there are measures relating to the private sector and to the state's effort to provide scope for the implementation of equality policies in the workplace by implementing equality plans, the rewarding of enterprises, and the possibility of intervening with courts, in the event of a breach of equality rights by trade unions and other organisations, as provided for in Article 21. In the media and advertising sector, arrangements are promoted to bring about the principle of gender equality, as well as the elimination of gender-related stereotypes, and an explicit prohibition on the reproduction of advertising, television or radio messages is provided for using a non-discriminatory speech. This regulation is not a proclamation, on the other hand it obliges the media to refrain from any violation of the principle of gender equality, while empowering the PSE, which is independent and impartial, to be able to control and impose sanctions if there is a breach, as provided for in Article 24. Part One also sets out provisions on the prevention and treatment of violence against women. Violence against women is a time-consuming phenomenon, which is not limited to specific racial, social, economic, religious or cultural groups, but is the hard core of racial inequalities and reproduces the relationships of power between men and women. It is even very difficult to fight, if one takes into account the reluctance of the victims to denounce the incidents of violence before the authorities or the preconceived deterrence, fortunately a few representatives of the law, but also the shortcomings in knowledge of gender equality cases by much of them - otherwise - well-trained members of the Greek Police. I should also like to refer to this point - and it has already been said - a victory that the State sector has achieved on gender equality, namely the Ministry of the Interior. On January 17, 2019, about two months ago, it was accepted by the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection our request to deal more effectively with the problem presented to the police forces in the country, women who have suffered violence cannot exercise their rights and be protected, as they have every right. We have tabled processed proposals that were accepted, for the first time since the current leadership of the Ministry, which consists of two renowned women, Minister Gerovasilis and Deputy Minister Papakostas, whom I warmly thank, who immediately agreed to implement the proposals of the Gender Equality Sector of the Ministry of Interior. The immediate establishment of a department for the treatment of domestic violence in the Greek Police was announced on 8 March. By presidential decree this department will be established under the direction of general police at the headquarters of the Hellenic Police. Families will be established in the Directorate-General for Police and the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki, as well as in all the Departments of Police of counties and Attica, so that police forces throughout the country will be appropriately strengthened to deal effectively and permanently with the self-defense crimes of domestic violence. We have called for and succeeded in setting up an integrated network for the first time in the Greek Police to deal with the racial violence that will co-operate with the already existing network of Gender Equality structures operating throughout the country, namely the advisory centres and hostels of victims of violence. Finally, through the cooperation already in existence between the Equality Research Centre of the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Studies Centre of the Ministry of Civil Protection and other organisations, we have already trained in the issues of equal treatment of two hundred executives of EL.AS. And others will be trained, while our request was accepted to be immediately prepared and released "practical police guide" to be sent to all police departments, so that they know their executives all the information they need to deal with incidents of domestic violence. During the economic crisis, as well as through constant migration flows, the phenomenon of women's abuse is emerging and has made clear the need for state measures. To this end, the bill provides, in Article 25 to 27, for the continuation, extension, safe and permanent financial support for the operation of an integrated network of structures and services to provide psychosocial support, legal counselling and safe residence for women victims of racial violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u211	Madam Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u212	Yeah, I'm not late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u213	You're not late, but you're late. Now we've reached the sixteen minutes and the Minister hasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u214	I'm done. These are women's advisory centres, hostels of abused women who operate to date under the supervision of the General Secretariat of Gender Equality of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the cooperation of the Centre for Equality Research, with the strong support of municipalities and regions, and, thirdly, the 24-hour universal line SOS 13900 operating under the Gender Equality Secretariat. It is clear that things must still be done, that even more innovative policies must be drawn up. We must recognise that this draft law finally sets firm foundations for addressing critical and timely problems for the protection and promotion of gender equality, not only at the theoretical level, but also at the practical level. I am not going to mention the other provisions on the time economy, Mr President, concerning citizenship and the amendments contained in the 'CLITHEN' bill. And what I have for my part, for my part, to ask for is that this draft law should be passed on to all the provisions contained in the amendments which the Minister has put forward and developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u215	Mrs Stamatakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the bill we are debating today is very important. It concerns the essential equality of women and not just equality in law. We have already passed many legislation on gender equality, with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which has been hidden in ministerial offices for many years. To a large extent, legislation is promoted, but where we have a problem it is in the application of the legislation. This was reflected in the hearing of the bodies and the positions of women's organisations. Substantial equality means ensuring equal opportunities, addressing direct or indirect discrimination, improving living conditions, preventing and dealing with gender-motivating violence. An innovation in the bill we are debating today is that it horizontally applies the gender dimension to all public policies, in all sectors of the private and public sector, to political, social, economic and cultural life. There is provision for a network of structures, measures and actions relating to the obligation to take action on gender in administration, to encourage participation, to encourage education and research on gender issues, to harmonise public speech by protecting against gender discrimination and to eliminate the stereotypes that exist to date. Access to health, in particular vulnerable population groups, such as women refugees and victims of racial violence, is foreseen, while provision is made for the continued operation and better coordination of existing social protection structures. A national action plan for gender equality is therefore set up in the context of this. Starting from the municipalities, where social policy servants have been established, a Municipal Committee on Equality is set up, which is advisory in nature, but is responsible for proposing gender equality measures to the municipality in cooperation with the Regional Equality Committee set up at regional level. At the government level, each Ministry is required to present an annual report on the actions, measures and programmes it has implemented for gender equality. With regard to encouraging active participation of women in the political life of the place and in particular to strengthening the representation of women, both in Parliament and in local government, there is provision for increasing the rate of gender to at least 40% of the total number of candidates per constituency, and for setting up the management's collective bodies a penalty for sub-representation of the gender. Reference is made to education with further encouragement of the development of gender and gender-based research. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Media and advertising promote arrangements for the implementation of gender equality, the elimination of discrimination and stereotypes and the ban on the reproduction of non-discriminatory advertising spots. There is provision for a reward for enterprises making progress in the development of measures to promote the essential gender equality with the 'equality' mark and for the obligation for enterprises with this mark to submit an annual report to the General Secretariat of Gender Equality. Furthermore, the bill concerns the continuation of operation and better coordination of structures already in existence to deal with racial violence, such as the "User of Hostness" and the "SOS Gram" on a 24-hour basis. All these arrangements essentially strengthen equality in all aspects of social and political life. In addition, the bill we are debating today includes significant changes to speed up the process of citizenship. It is an important issue, since the amount of applications is high, resulting in the suffering of thousands of citizens. A single pan-Hellenic examination procedure shall be established for the certificate of adequacy of the Greek language on naturalisation, carried out under the responsibility of the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning. The paradox for naturalisation is reduced from EUR 700 to EUR 550, while for those who have been living ties in Greece and who have been removed and absent for eighteen months, their application is not rejected, but the procedure is suspended and re-examined after the resettlement in Greece. Furthermore, the responsibility for naturalisation decisions is attributed to the Regional Departments of Citizenship of the Ministry of the Interior now, instead of the decentralised administration which has been responsible so far, and we believe that this measure will be reduced by nine months. In addition, the bill includes arrangements for the performance of citizenship in vulnerable groups, elderly persons with mental disabilities, with severe mental illness, who are awarded the right to naturalisation regardless of whether they meet all criteria, so that they can enjoy the social protection that Greek citizens enjoy. A rule of law must apply and integrate into its structures and the society of people living, working, studying, having created families, raising their children in our country, and we must provide them with safe conditions for their integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. We continue with the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Sevastakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much. ‘Legal activism’. I liked that, Mr. Voridis. There is, of course, legal activism, which is the conflict with causalism. And I do not say it accidentally, because I think that your first positive and central observation of the bill in the part or area concerning gender equality was the quota, that is, rather, a quantitative sense, an uptake of the concept of equality. This force has probably been dissolved, not only in the years of the crisis, but especially in the years of booming, because we have had an extremely large economic and cultural concept of the type of housing, the type of organisation of behaviour, the type of filters with which citizens have been organizing their relationships for too many decades - we have had such a boom - which has not been accompanied by any of the - in my opinion - the acquisition of a spiritual and natural class parity between women and men, as well as the cultural areas that make up society. The culture did not follow what the economy and the material formation of our society did. He wasn't following it. We have - let us say - a mythoplasty or a portrayal of the woman extremely archaic, extremely backward, with terrible anachronisms, with the survival of amazing stereotypes, which have nothing to do with what we have - supposedly the pioneering - conquered, which is this sweet look and the very high-level balance and holistic understanding of the citizen, whether this sex or the other sex. So it seems that the two tools do not help us understand each other, that is, the tool of the economy and the tool of cultural recovery. We have a discrepancy. The second point I would highlight is that all the legislation that has been in existence essentially defines a level of defence. They're not protecting. They define a level of defence where it can go ahead, but they do not safeguard it. You said that in your speech that we have domestic violence, which, in fact, although there are legal instruments, cannot be conquered, because there is economic dependence on the two, and therefore it must be silent, because there is this economic dependence. However, it did not answer that the woman is a producer of income and should therefore have won this parity and become a strong pole. I think that these loose ends are not only solved by legislating, although the bill is attempting to do so, as are other legislations that can go ahead. In my personal opinion the recovery of a cultural balance is pending. It is demanded through much richer, synthetic, collective actions that balance, this cultural assumption to deepen it. I would like to make a note of my amendment, which concerns the Scientific Committee on Standards and Experimental Schools, not so much to substantiate that it would be a wish to go ahead - in a way that the Government does not have the responsibility for experimental and standard schools - as well as because I believe that the educational tests today are as important as ever, because we have a common change, a change of standards, a change of educational features and a change of mediation. Today part of the education process is taking place outside school. It ends with media media media mediation, i.e. mediation of organized speech and pictoring. That is why new educational tools are changing, developing. Therefore the experimental shell, the shell of teaching experimentation is very important. It would be a good thing if we were to spread to all the regions of the country of experimental schools, because the central political scene needs to understand cultural peculiarities. At the moment, if the Scientific Committee on Standards and Experimentals moves forward in order to establish the examinations and draws which will take place at the end of the school year, it would be a wish, but in this direction, not just for a bureaucratic loose end. I close by the fact that there have been quite interesting speeches with different emphasis and ideological directions. Some bills have a permitted character, they have an internal broadening, because it seems that what we mean before legislating is too dense and legislating is just a small part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. We're going with Mr. Morfidis, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to apologise to Mrs Megalo-Economics for the 'You are the same' I said to Mr Adonni Georgiadis. They're not the same. And even what I meant, that they use the same way, that's right. It's completely different to make a charm on a TV channel and completely different to transfer this charm to the House and continue it by generalizing the cucumbers for this Chamber and for the people sitting in these chairs. So, then, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, who cannot lie, who only tells the truth, should really look at this, because he may start to confuse what is a lie and what is true. At least I remember five times that this Step brought some make news into Parliament. So he needs to see it again. As far as Mrs Durou is concerned, she said that she should take on her responsibilities and resign. Who? The man who passed as a throat from the Ministry of Health, who almost dissolved health in our country and has not taken over any of his responsibilities. None of what's insulting him is right. In fact, he doesn't say he's innocent, but the offences he's accused of have just been dropped. So something's wrong here. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that legislation is not static. The legislator must intervene whenever he finds that something is wrong or needs to be changed, because either they change the data in society or it is found that there are imperfections in the application of the law. We are hearing criticism today because we are correcting new legislation. We, ladies and gentlemen, have our ears open and our minds to the demands which society and its institutions put forward and which we consider to be fair. Of course we could not in any way tell those people who bring these demands that we recently legislated. So how long does it take to change a piece of legislation? So when there is a need, when a piece of legislation can improve both the lives of citizens and the functioning of public administration and the state, I think that must be done when it is found that change needs to be made. We are critical of the amendment tabled by the candidates. They called it an amendment, Kudura. I have heard a colleague call Tsipras Amendment. This change in law took place in 2014, shortly before the European elections. This provision was valid for thirty years. What was right and what was the mistake? Did the mistake finally be these five years and thirty years before we did something right? So, does the reinstatement of the former regime make sense when you see that things are not going ahead? Unless we have to accept that what the Samara government did was right, so no one should touch these things. With regard to the bill, in the first section we continue to legislate after the ratification of the Treaty of Istanbul, and we move forward with arrangements that lay the foundations and conditions to get to the level of gender equality, the lifting of racial discrimination, public social and economic life, and the establishment of policies implemented by the state, but also enable the collective bodies to organise this action in the direction of equality. The second part of the bill deals with citizenship issues. For us, it's an ideological, identifiable issue. Call it whatever you want. Haven't you understood anything about what's going on in the world? Haven't you learned a lesson from what happened the other day in New Zealand about how we should deal with all these extremes and fanaticisms that as long as they get stronger in the world? Are the dead just an incident for you in a normal development of history? Do you think something needs to be changed in this world? And if so, in what direction does this change have to be? In the direction of the race's purity or in the direction of coexistence and peace? I believe this issue after World War II has been resolved. In the third part there are changes in local government. As time runs out, I will only stand at one, the criticism that has been heard of the suspension of recruitment. Several problems have arisen in the municipalities of the country from the restrictions on recruitment due to the Memorandums. We had one by ten, one by eight, one by five - which is the good figure for the New Democracy - and now we are reaching one by one, which can actually give breath. Since recruitment is done through SAEP, it may be time for us to become a normal country and to ban routine recruitment. But - and I think it makes sense nowadays - that we do not give the towns the opportunity to create gaps for months without them being covered. How will we justify a long-term delay to all those who wait for the final lists of nominees from the 3K? In what way can we say to them: 'Wait for another eight months to hold elections'? The reason why the public is closed in every election procedure, with everyone's contribution, must be in the past and in history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. We're on our way to SYRIZA MP, Mr. Cameroon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, compatriot, Mr President. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis was misunderstood when I, protesting about his word and his level, which I think was not even political, came out of the Chamber. It seems, however, that of the many moves and the much he says - he leaves here and goes to TV, he leaves the TV and goes from there - he cannot tell how we speak in a channel panel and how from this Step. When I stand on this step, I feel awe when I think of who they spoke here, what politicians went through with how deep political speech and how they confronted political arguments. In any case, I am honoured and would like to support an amendment tabled by Members of Parliament on the islands that we have a host country. I would like to dwell on three other positions that have the bill. As far as the amendment is concerned, we are calling for an extension of contracts of medical and nursing staff to all centres of migrant hospitality. But it is of particular importance to the islands. For all things it is, but for the islands and health structures, because the recruitment procedures have not been completed by the notice made by the CEDEFOP. This can be done in the next few days, it can be done in a month. That is why we are asking for two months to make sure that the recruitment can take place in this period. I wanted to highlight three adjustments to the bill. The first is in Article 76, which restores the provincial institution in the former island provinces. This was a constant request from the islanders, because it is a special function of the provinces as a decentralised administrative unit. Back in the day, despite all their problems, we had a better function than we have now. We had provincial councils, too. In any case, let us be the only institution of the provincial state, it is something very positive. And we can combine it with what "KLITHENIS" provides for, that the Vice-President may convene the members of the district, the regional, regional consultants, at a meeting and decide much more, if the regional director wants, he can further strengthen the districts, be autonomous administrative units, with the technical services that will serve the surrounding islands and all that. I also wanted to stay in the arrangement provided for in Article 95, which allows the municipality of journalists or technicians to be seconded to television channels, municipal or radio. This is very important. Of course, it is a matter of the whole country, but particularly of us. They need to be strengthened. They cannot operate these instruments themselves, and we know how important they are in our area. And one detail: It is very important that it leaves the issue of their payroll in the decision each mayor will take. This leaves room for aid to these stations. And one last regulation, to which I wished to stay, is the one that comes with a ministerial amendment and clears the degree of responsibility of the municipal officials involved in economic matters. "KLITHENIS" made a proper adjustment, which simplified the procedures for the approval of financial expenditure to the municipalities, etc., but left a window in which one might say that there would probably be political responsibilities towards employees. Now it clarifies in which cases - when there's a fraud, etc. - there will be the responsibility of the employees. It's something the officials asked for and I think it's in the right direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. We are on our way with Mr Karayannides, SYRIZA MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u224	I think now that we're family, only SYRIZA can talk more relaxed. The bill relates to a number of things, including, in my view, gender equality. I would say "equality of people" regardless of gender identity, sexual orientation and gender characteristics. The last two words are missing from the bill, and I think that it could be supplemented in Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 17, 22 and 24 to make the framework of this law more comprehensive, wider and more precise. Why do we legislate on gender equality? Is there a racial violence? Are there feminine murders? Are there any human LGBTK murders in our country? Only those who close eyes in daily news reports do not understand and know this data. And it's not just that they don't know this data, but they're trying to stay in the dark, to have a society of patriarchal even today in our country. It is our qualitative difference between SYRIZA and the New Democracy between the Left and the Right. The patriarchy is not a democratic given, and our view is that it must not be maintained after two hundred years of existence of this nation. We believe that these legislations show the way and discipline the Greek society as well. Why does this have to be done? Why do we have to discuss today whether women have the right, for example, to reach the highest level of the mandated sections of that state? Do you know any of the RFS chiefs who were a woman? Do you know any chief of staff who was a woman? Any GAA chief of the Air Force? Do we know many prime minister women in this country? To go to the hardest, do we know LGBTK people who have reached the highest rank of our state power? I'll say we know, but there's a conspiracy of silence and we hide it. Because any man who chooses to have a specific identity, so that at least he can move on to the elected posts, puts this identity in the closet and play another self. Is that what we can do at some point? We can see why I see Mustafa in front of me, Minister of Education from the minority? We can see, in other words, people who, for the right wing of the House, have been scary, because it is different, because it is not them, because it is not the state they have built over the last two hundred years. These legislations at least try to do so, and I think we are doing so in a way. Obviously, it is up to society to claim even more. I will mention an example of where we are today on the right side of Parliament. A candidate MP, who is a bogus news delivery machine, wrote that the quota is a conspiracy of the SYRIZA to exclude worthy men from the NW ballots. He's the same person who messed Sotiris Calavatsis up with Latous, and I'm very sure that if they showed him Gusguny, he'd be confused with Cornelius Castoriadis. But at this level society cannot go further. Anyway, it is not a level that helps dialogue, because there should be a debate in plenary, a debate in society, but this does not change with these views. There have also been various - and indeed various - given the New Democracy office and repeat it as a cassette for all Members - on the amendments relating to the European elections. I would like to remind the New Democracy, which is absent at the moment, that the Samara Government proceeded forty days before the 2014 European elections to change the way Members were elected, abolishing the list and establishing the cross of preference. The bill in question came to Committees 1-3 April 2014, 9 and 10 April was discussed in plenary and on 25 April we had European elections. So don't talk about surprises, stunned toys, petty toys. Fifteen days before the European elections, they changed the way Members were elected and they came to talk about this! And although the two then government partners had initially agreed to lift the current incompatibility of Members' participation in the Euroleaf for the polls of 25 April, which Yiannis Michelakis announced on 24 February 2014, the draft law did not come and the withdrawal was not made. One change, however, had to do with regulation of inner-party problems of the South. They did not hide it, after all, that the lifting of the incompatibilities would apply even if they had passed the law. So let us put aside this hypocrisy about the 'Kounduras tropology'. I would like to close with an amendment which I would like to sign, and I hope the Minister for the Interior will accept, which concerns the balance of payroll services. The proposed device comes to fill a gap and help functionally. It is the amendment with a general number of 2045 and a special number 93. It is an amendment that comes to regulate problems functionally which municipalities have when they need internally to lend money so that they can cope with any budgets that appear negative. I think it gives a perspective for the municipalities to function better. Of course, always laying down the criteria that effectively exclude cases of circumvention of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Mr Mustafa mustafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u226	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Karayannides that, as far as he has said, we will also have these developments in the future. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in discussing the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior, 'Promoting fundamental gender equality, preventing and combating race violence, rules on citizenship, provisions on elections to local government', to express my agreement, Mr Ministers, in the bill, in all three areas that this includes. It really negotiates serious issues, which are time-consuming and time-consuming, and these issues solve them maturely and fairly. I want to refer to the arrangements for the award of citizenship. I believe that these arrangements are a serious step forward in the election of a process that is hard for too many people, for many of our fellow people. The people who chose to live here have started their lives here and are unable to acquire citizenship because they are not familiar with the details of our history, which in the end, in some cases, only historical scientists or linguists are familiar with them. It is well known to all of us that the procedure of questions in the interview, which has so far been followed, has been the tough one for the award of citizenship. I do not intend to refer to the personal examples I have heard, I have experienced and have witnessed. However, it is regrettable - there is no excuse - for a parent, a man or a woman whose children are serving in the Greek Army, who are serving the country on various points, that they cannot take the Greek nationality, hold the Greek nationality. We have many such cases in our area too. Generally speaking, the issues of citizenship - because of my origin, but also because of political, historical and enthusiasm - are moved, we are shaken and interested. By analyzing the modern definition of citizenship, which was discussed in the debate on the Prespecies Agreement, as the legal relationship that governs the citizen with the state, I am truly moved and self-confirmed for the 60-year-old course of my life, my family and the closer society I belong to, as well as for the historical presence and course of this group of people within the social, political and economic life of our country. I am deeply moved because I am faced with a lot of grief and the previous legislative initiative on citizenship for those children who have been born in Greece and in this draft law on citizenship, because in Greece, Article 19 of the Code of Nationality was applied until 1998. On the basis of this article and with political will of the post-elections government, tens of thousands of Greek citizens, both in my area and in other parts of the country, lost Greek citizenship as foreigners. This defined Article 19 of the Code of the Hellenic Nationality: "Greek citizens, a foreigner who goes out of the country without intention to return, loses Greek citizenship". The pain and misery caused by the application of this article has been undeserved. I do not want to be more dramatic about this historical truth. In 1998, one day like this, the Minister of Home Affairs then brought in a bill a provision: Article 19 of the Code of Nationality is now repealed. Despite my appeals at that time - I happen to be a MP with the Left and Progress coalition - and my personal appeals and also the coalition parliamentary group, the Minister did not accept any amendment, no provision for the victims of this article, such as minor children, migrants in the countries of Europe, cases of people who had not even left our country at all. This reality, Minister, is a wound in the soul of society and wants its healing. Life is merciless. Our tens of thousands of fellow people, forty-eight thousand in number, had then been designated by the Minister, wrapped up in a glue, at a time when they lost their nationality, with everything that implies, 'they took their teams', as we say, and they created a new life, most in Turkey, others in countries of Europe, others in Australia, others in the United States and have acquired the citizenship of the countries in which they live. As a remnant of this tragedy, there are still typical cases of stateless, victims of Article 19, even to this day. It's just a few cases, but they're typical. They are people who live as stateless in our country with an identity of stateless, stateless, stateless country of origin in Greece. They are people living abroad, but for reasons of principle, because they have not been able to accept this injustice, this bitter reality, they have not taken any other citizenship and have also been living under the non-nationality regime for years, in the hope that this injustice will once be restored. There are immigrants who have gone to work in the countries of Europe and cannot explain their state of state there, have strong ties with Greece, with the region, with their family members in my area, with property loose ends. Minister, these cases require immediate resolution as a minimum sign of respect for fair wishes, for those people's enthusiastic desires for their homeland, for their country, for their homeland. These cases need to be examined by the relevant state body, and with this bill there are several instruments both at the regional level and at the Ministry as central, and with the Central Directorate of Citizenship and with a humanitarian and democratic sensitivity and need a cross-party agreement - there is certainly no cross-party presence at the moment, the comrade from the Communist Party of Greece is here - to be justified. All people, completing their life cycle, have the right to return to their homeland, their birthplace and close their life cycle there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too. We are going with the Member of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Constantopoulos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill regulating three different issues: firstly, promoting gender equality and, indeed, preventing and combating racial violence, secondly, issues of citizenship, and thirdly, issues relating to elections to local government. So we are debating another string of legislation and a number of amendments which regulate different issues. However, this means that dialogue does not go beyond the top issue of equality, and so it is not essential, because for us all, I believe, gender equality policy is a top issue. Already, I would like to remind you that since the 1980s, PASOK has established gender equality policies, which it expanded in the 1990s, taking place in a wide range of areas of public policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has proved in practice that it has a different framework of values and belief in the concept of equal opportunities and not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of human rights. In fact, here I would expect someone from a left-wing government to go further on anti-discrimination issues, having even organised a real social dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has had the legal arsenal for gender equality, which has been established in the public space since the early 1980s, as I said, with the support of the women's movement of post-mopulation. So social dialogue could help us focus on the needs that have arisen in the field of gender equality during the period of the economic crisis and often lead women to social exclusion and social bullying. It could help us to approach better the issue of the smooth reintegration into the social group of women who have been imprisoned or toxic-dependent, who are experiencing long-term unemployment, who are Roma, refugees and migrants in our country, who have suffered any form of violence, who are heads of single-parent families or women who combine many individual identities that integrate them into the vulnerable social classes. More generally, it could help to improve understanding of the real problems currently faced by women and which have to do with unequal treatment against them at work, with the need to strengthen the framework for the protection of motherhood and the working mother, by reconciliation of family and working life. Such, ladies and gentlemen, social dialogue is lacking. Such a social dialogue could create and help the government to formulate specific policies that will respond to the real problems. That's the reality. But you, ladies and gentlemen, have worked on the social dialogue. And I ask you: what are your policies to reverse the extremely high unemployment rate in women? Because I would like to stress that according to the figures of December 2017, in ELSTAT, women continue to maintain a higher percentage than men 25.8% compared to 16.9% of men. What are your policies so that the Greek woman working to feel she can become a mother without leaving her dreams behind for her professional familiarity? The committee has heard the problems relating to nurseries which cannot cover all children and the entire schools, which need to be strengthened. And all this when? This Regulation shall And indeed the Democratic Alliance has stressed many times that the care structures for infants and infants and, more generally, the creative employment structures for children of working mothers must be supported by resources and multiplyed. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the Change Movement, consider the issue of gender equality to be very important. I would remind you that our President, Mrs Gennimata, has recently developed the positions of the Change Movement for women. Firstly, we must stand alongside the unemployed woman to find a job, with concrete proposals for tax exemption for firms opening up jobs for women who are unemployed. Secondly, we must stand by the woman working and the mother. Not only can the woman regain her post after the precinct, but really be protected during lactation and upbringing of children, with permits of sufficient time and flexible forms of work, but with equal rights as normal forms of work. Thirdly, we must stand by the woman who wants to engage in business, with specific insurance and tax exemptions and specific programmes for her training and training. Fourthly, we must stand by women who are the heads of single parent families, guaranteeing jobs and related allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of what I have described to you, which are only a few of our proposals, the government comes with an increase in the gender quota to claim that it is looking after gender equality. That is to say, it increases the quota to 40% of all candidates, from 1 to 3, which has been in force so far. And I would say that you do well and do 40%, but it is not enough to promote equality between men and women. And of course, after such progressive legislation brought by Andreas Papandreou in the 1980s and 1990s for the protection of women, it is political and historical amnesia to say that the first time comes a single framework for equality. Well, get serious. In the individual issues with the different definitions by law and the confusion that Mrs Christophilopoulou referred to in detail, as well as in the issues you regulate on citizenship, which you unfortunately neglected in the legalisation of 'CLITHEN', but in the context of the catching of voters you have now remembered, three months before the elections. But this is another debate. Of course, there is relief because of the acceptance of a fair proposal, the abolition of discrimination against naturalists in respect of the right of appointment to the public, as well as in respect of the provisions concerning the relatives of the former Soviet Union and those of the Roma who have not been taken into account. Finally, with regard to the amendment enabling MEPs to vote as candidates in the European elections without having to resign beforehand, there are no words, ladies and gentlemen. That's how we go back. The conclusions of yours. What is needed is one: it only needs to emerge and be placed in the crisis of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u229	Thank you. We're on our way with Mr. Syragos, SYRIZA MP, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law consists of three parts relating to its provisions and complements the existing legislative framework in order to make any objections on this basis unjustified and unfounded. For example, Articles 15, 16 and 23 deal with elections and equality. Let me briefly look at the parts of the bill, stressing the points we feel should be pointed out and the need for its vote should be demonstrated. Part One, Articles 1 to 30: it concerns promoting essential gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence. I note, for example, as meaning some articles, not to mention - it is well known to you - for briefing and economy. I am therefore referring to Articles 14, 15, 17, 24, 25, 26. The draft law shall be assembled and supplemented by other legislation which has been adopted and, in particular, by the emblem of ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It is important that the framework should be completed, that there should be one logic on these issues. Part two, Articles 31 to 49, arrangements for citizenship. The aim is to address individual problems and malfunctions. He could successfully and try to describe it as an attempt to rationalise and settle outstandings on the National Code. Let me note here that it is appropriate to stick to the letter and to the wording of the Report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament and not to attempt to interpret it in an excessive manner or according to what is subjectively 'I want'. As a consequence of the thought I have given you, I did not find any comment negative on the report on Article 40, for example, which in the opposition concerns the 'dead people'. That's disgracefully said. So let's see it all. Our judgment and the expression of the word on citizenship must not blur and be prejudiced, relied upon by ideologically discriminating, even racial or religious, etc. Let us take care of it, please, because such crises and an extremist reason which is being attempted in some respects is not the right way of political confrontation for democracy. It is destroyed and strengthened by the extreme, irrational and dark forces at its expense and at the expense of our European values, those that we accept as a state and as a society. These extremist forces, hypocritically alleged, seek to use the institutional characteristics of democracy, such as individual rights and pluralism, which at all times invoke who? Those who want to abolish them. Let's take care of that! Always the enemies of democracy used as a vehicle, on purpose - and you know who I mean, I don't need to show or say - individual and social rights, not to defend it but to destroy it. We must take care of this and do not give rise to any objections. The third part is arrangements for the appointment of municipal and regional authorities, Articles 50 to 115. They are satisfied with requests from local government, as shown by the hearing of the bodies. I stand out for Articles 52, 98, 113-115, the last of which concerns JEPs, small islands and border regions. At this point I should like to say that, at the first opportunity, the issues of the smaller islands and mountainous regions, which deal with financial management and self-interest or target, in any case, the budget and their management of the better, must be regulated. We must, when we are given the opportunity, settle this issue. I'm closing up with two remarks. I believe that the positive opinions of the bodies at the recent hearing are the virtue of the draft law being passed. It's important. I would also like to stress that I do not know whether other speakers have said so, but it is important. That's what this hearing is about. I shall refer to two other points. Elections for the European Parliament must be the field of strengthening the European idea, stimulus of democracy and pan-human values and, at the same time, of crushing the extremist, racist, xenophobic, anti-democratic forces, the forces of returning to the bad past of wars and Holocausts, isolationism and intolerance. This is the form of the referendum on the European elections and not anyone else. This is the form of the referendum, the isolation of extreme forces. Elections on local government must have as the basis of dialogue the emergence and expansion of the local case, as its concept has been enriched today, a matter of political importance, far from close partyism. The management of local affairs by an extremely representative body, such as what is guaranteed by KLITHENH, will test and demonstrate our maturity as a society. To conclude, I will try to give an element of vigilance to the debate, with a sense of humor about the municipal elections. You know, the laws are good, but we have to avoid some things that happen many times to the criteria we use. I'm self-government too. I went down twice in the election and went out both times from the last. It was an eight-year-old. They were changing electoral systems, "Kappostyreia" came, other things changed. So I asked a very experienced colleague of mine, unmistakable now, who always came out first: "Counselor, what is the secret to local government?" He was older and said to me: "Soys, my child, the soybeans." That kind of thing has to be avoided now. We live in a time of maturity. Ladies and gentlemen, our criteria must be more self-government and more rational. We'll see about that. Because local development goes hand in hand with national general development, since it does not mean one another. They're transporting containers. Local communities are developed, local affairs are expanded, the general economy of the country is developed as well. I think these two are functiones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u231	Thank you too, Mr. Syrigos. We are going with Mr. Amanatidis, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. It seems that a bill that has as its topic the essential equality of two sexes, the promotion of such policies does not, at least, stimulate Major Opposition. Therefore, we have empty bearings. Therefore, of the forty-speaking Members in this Chamber, only five are from New Democracy. Otherwise, the proclamations on March 8, for Woman Day, are good, great. But when we are going to discuss matters that are fundamentally political, then there is a total absence. Why is that so? Minister, I would also like to address the Minister - this bill is emblematic and it is a Haritsis bill - and it is the left-wing government bill, which promotes substantial solutions and actions to promote equality and not just wishfulness. The articles that put the principle of equal treatment, which have the incorporation of the principle of equality in public policies, which speak of the fairness of structures, which speak of gender mainstreaming in private life and employment, are comprehensive and should be addressed by Greek society as well. Today the New Democracy has shown that everything that cannot be conscientious or prevented, any positive measure, is trying to reduce it. Hence the designations for this bill. Don't bite! That's not how Greek society stings. It is aware of the flagship activities that it has in here and of course promotes gender equality. In northern Greece, the provisions which refer to the ex-Soviets, like the Roma, are all awaiting them as a balm. The messages we have from northern Greece, from our relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union, are very positive in relation to their attitude to the bill. And that's still what they want to hide. So there are no positions. The actions that promote gender equality in only one have to say that they agree - also to others, but they hide them - for the 40% rate. So, how will gender equality be promoted in education do they not agree? It is therefore a political tactic, which has our own policy towards us, which meets political and social needs and rights. This one's across the street. We are still healing their own wounds from the availability and redundancies of school guards and municipal policemen, who are trying to hide them now, that nothing has happened. It is also very positive that there are centres for citizens' services. I think that the leadership of the Ministry of Interior should also see the issues of structures, such as creative employment centres and Creative Employment Centres, which meet needs. And I think that in the planning that the government has done and in the context of the Ministry of Public Administration for the planning of recruitment, it needs to see these issues for the next period, because they do cover permanent needs. I mean the needs for the creative employment of children after school in the municipalities, and it is an issue that we should see. As regards the amendment that has been so critical about whether or not a Member should resign to be a candidate. We have been very critical of the fact that we are self-interested, Mrs Kundura's name has been mentioned. They must tell us themselves, since it is a matter of principle that a Member should resign, what will they do as a party? Will they use it or not? What directive are they giving their candidates? 'Cause so far they're speculation for Mrs. Kundura. They have made Members' names. What are they gonna do? Will they tell us? Or are they gonna hide that? Here is the Step of the House, behold the representative and tell us. The second part of my speech, Mr President and Minister, is in relation to the parliamentary amendment that we tabled under the general number 2033 and special 91, and all Members of Parliament sign the SYRIZA's A' and B'Thessaloniki's. It is an amendment supported by the Minister for Sports, Mr Vasiliadis. I know that he has the support - I do not want you to charge it - of all the Members from all the Members who are Members of Parliament and from Thessaloniki. Basically, it defines the smooth succession and responsibility of the new sports anonymity regarding the debts of the old sports anonymity. And I'll invite the Minister, of course, Mr. Haritsi, to accept it. It is in knowledge of all the co-legislative ministries and the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, as the government implements policies within the context of rationalised budgetary expansion and meets social needs, both the opposition of the New Democracy will rely on lies, hidden and on a policy that says that these will be the saviors, but without changing the mix of their policies. They don't say about their politics. They say they are saviors, who "saved" us in the past and reached us on the verge of bankruptcy. Without arguments and planning positions, however, the Greek people will not allow them to come back to the fore. They will remain in the background of political life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Balomemakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, namely Part One, measures are taken for the first time to create an independent and compulsory institutional framework to prevent and combat racial violence and all kinds of discrimination, which have the starting point of gender, race or sexual orientation. So far, the general provisions that existed in the legal fabric either concerned a separate sector of the social and economic area each time - so that it was not possible to monitor their implementation, in the absence of the necessary structures that are now being created - or the most unfavourable version of laws, but were not foreseen to be sanctions in the event of non-implementation. A characteristic example of this last case, that is to say, that there is a provision providing for equal treatment measures but that the effect of its non-implementation is that Article 251 of Law 3852/2010, i.e. 'CALICRATES'. In this article, the obligation for each sex to represent at least 30% of all members of the collective bodies was indeed laid down. However, there was no consistency if this obligation was not complied with. In other words, we have a case of incomplete legislation, a lex imperfectus, and of course continuous circumvention. The rapporteur of the PHSY told us this morning that the provision of Article 16 of the draft law we are debating today is almost unnecessary, since the quota for the composition of the collective bodies is already provided for. But that's not right. Because the regulation now contained in the draft law provides for the incomplete composition to be ratified by the lack of legality of the decision, with what this entails. In other words, in this case, we have a transition from a wish to a compulsory regime. We emphasise this as an example of the fundamental difference between the general clauses - which are really not lacking in our legislation, but are dispersed - and the systeming of the organisation of supervision of the general principles of equality set out in this draft law. And if we want an arbitrary generalization here there is a more general difference between today's and previous governments. We mean what we say. We are talking about translating the general principles of equality into practice in the everyday life of the citizen. This legislative initiative is therefore horizontally regulated, i.e. in a way that runs all the living and legal relationships between private and public social and economic life, the fundamental requirement of modern legal order, equality of rights. The main instrument is the introduction of a special obligation for the state to take appropriate measures from now on, so that the principle of gender equality can be implemented in practice, and that the racial violence and violence that, as a starting point, is blocked and fought. It is also important, but rather more difficult to achieve only administrative measures, that is the series of regulations relating to media, which are aimed at the disappearance of the various gender-related stereotypes. Recently we had another case of a fascist daily version, aimed at women politicians, especially SYRIZA, and co-operating, with obscene characterisations, who have blatantly taken their female status as the starting point. Despite its inherent difficulties - due among others to the deliberately low quality of many of these mass media - the provision for combating stereotypes, which is of the character of prevention and also of collision between attitudes affecting the fundamental right of personality, I believe - is useful not in the direction of censorship - as perhaps some of the expensive ones are rushing to claim - but in the direction of civilisation, the humanisation of public speech. An important means of identifying and providing practical support for victims is to be the operation of a network of structures and services that will provide psychological, legal and advisory support. The obligation to set up municipal equality committees, which have so far been simply voluntary, is expected to contribute to better organising existing and future municipal support structures. Equally important is the provision of Article 22. When the Labour Inspectorate controls an undertaking, it will have to investigate its own motion - that is to say, and when there is no complaint - if there is no discrimination of all kinds at work against women, starting with working conditions and reaching remuneration. In the same sense, that is to say, the greatest possible protection and support for victims of discrimination on the grounds of sex or other elements of their personality who are forced to resort to the courts is the provision of Article 23, in which trade unions are able to intervene in favour of workers. It is also a provision concerning the urban part of these particular differences. The provisions that improve the existing regime for the acquisition of Greek citizenship in terms of procedures are a clear progress towards our country in the field of human rights, while at the same time aiming to improve the performance of state mechanisms. The positive provisions of this draft law, of course, which reshape the system of examination for the reception of Greek citizenship, make it more adapted to the real conditions, as these conditions have been shaped in the last two decades. And I find here and note Article 35 - which has been discussed on this -, which has really been circulated since the principle of equality and decency and takes into account the individual's living and social needs. It does not allow the right to be lost if a person is forced to leave Greece for a while for family reasons or for health reasons. Both in the series of earlier sub-legislative regulations and in its recent proposal for substantial amendments to the constitutional provisions laying down the obligation of equal treatment, the SYRIZA Government has given concrete examples of the fact that it promotes the issue of isopoliticalism far beyond the formal limits set by the general clauses, which are, of course, long in the Greek legal order. In conclusion, I would like to give an answer to those who think that with the positive amendments to the Code of Nationality there is a risk of altering the population composition of Greece. It should be borne in mind that these changes are mentioned more in the process, which will be less bureaucratic, more equitable for those applying in a way that ensures basic human rights, just as international conditions and practices stress. However, I do not believe that the fears that are sometimes expressed in order to alter the population composition of Greece are at all valid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. I would say, in fact, that they are fears that lead to extreme conclusions and attitudes. They are, in fact, anti-national under the present conditions of democratic shrinking. Let this be well thought out by those who may criticise this particular part of the draft law and make a revert to history, especially in the medieval history of large areas of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with Mr Koutsukouko, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. We are indeed discussing a bill that has three serious aspects, namely equality, citizenship and elections in local government. We could discuss these aspects in an effort to find common solutions, to reach agreement and to go further ahead, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this government is not doing well with the institutions. Its relationship is manifestly negative and the juncture is illuminated or shaded by photographic regulation, so that the government can deal with issues linked to ensuring its progress and its majority over the next period and after the European elections, and I shall refer to this. However, first I would like to comment on the fact that a few speakers ago, Mrs Chrysovellon in her attempt to support the bill, she referred to the fact that she was the first Undersecretary of Equality. It is like what we call the first time left. Mrs Chrysoveloni will obviously not have anything to do with Maria Kypriotakis, nor will she remember her, with Maria Arseni or Nikos Bistis, recently with the Simitis government, who was Minister of Equality, much more with Vasso Papandreou, who, as Minister of the Presidency, had the responsibilities of equality. However, what Mrs Chrysovelonis said has no value for the same and the political area she comes from. It is important for SYRIZA and Mr. Haritsis, the Minister, because, Mr. Haritsi, if the party from which Mrs. Chrysovelonis came from was still governed and there was no big overthrow in the 1980s, we would not have the laws on equality, from the abolition of the dowry to equal rights everywhere. It is not a proof that the first article of your equality bill says that all of the ideas of the thirty articles come up in addition to existing legislation, because it is obviously a report of ideas. And you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that legal equality, which exists in our country since the 1980s, and the first PASOK governments and the continuation of modernising work in the 1990s, did not lead to all inequalities being eliminated. For example, EUROSTAT observes that our country has one of the greatest differences in wages for men and women, despite the fact that legislation has ensured it. So the fact of legal equality is not as important as the general conditions prevailing, culture, economic and social conditions, because, unfortunately, when there is poverty and unemployment, it is the weak link that pays the marble. That, I would say, has direct practical effect from these provisions, the first thirty articles, is the provision of Article 15 for the 40% quota. You are taking a step forward of our own initiatives, very advanced, and you are adding a percentage to the present rates of equality. We welcome them. Our rapporteur, Mrs Christophilopoulou, has said so, but do you want me to tell you something? And that is on the basis of what I said about your relations with the institutions, as this provision comes before the vote is closed before the candidates in the local and regional elections, when the parties are already in the run-up to the election period, which is prolonged, actually settles their ballots. You have a purpose, to create more problems, because, if the mood was honest, since you are the longest-lived Memorandum Government, this provision could be brought forward in time. For example, you could bring her in when we discussed the provisions of the notorious 'CLISTEN'. But even look at "CLOSHEN", even in constitutional review your concern was the correlations and safeguarding of percentages. It was not a new wave of reforms that would give a new impetus to self-government with responsibilities and resources. You have limited a debate on the simple analogue, the distribution of percentages, the methods of selection. That's what you do with this bill. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the government has exhausted the limits of the parliamentary majority and of the alliances following the craving of its cooperation with Mr Panos Kammenos and is now based on various cuts and weldings of various willing persons, since it has the potential to use the elixir of the chair to transform these conservative people into progressive ones - to rejoice with them, we say! -, sees that it no longer has any room for another alliance, despite the fact that it also uses fair and unfair ways to break down the area of the Central Left, i.e. the space represented by the Change Movement, now comes to bring a photographic layout. Only the photograph is lacking in the law of two specific colleagues, whom Mr Tsipras, in order to thank them for their offer underpinning this fraudulent government, wants to enable them to come down to the European elections. So congratulations on your relations with the institutions, but I must tell you that for this relationship with the institutions as you are experiencing it, the Greek people are also experiencing it with your daily extra-institutional interventions, the fact that you are not urging anyone to serve your party interests and, of course, what I have to say as a message, to think about it a little bit and to inspire it, that the last previa which you are trying to dress up, namely the Social Democrats, has nothing to do with these practices, as the central issue of democratic party and European social democracy is democracy and democracy over parties and methods. So, in vain, playing pollen games, because these pollinable games are like games with fire and it is certain that the Greek people, who perceive it, will return the maneuvers to the polls that will be based anyway very soon in both the local elections and the Euro-elections and the national elections, where they come. With these, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to highlight this method of government, which last night at 20.31; it understood that the new conception of democracy is to put the photos of two colleagues on this amendment, to table it here and to vote on it, because in the end it finds a way out of the deadlocks, which it itself has created with its policy of alliances, the deadlocks which, obviously, are not going to be solved either by the manipulations or by the false progressive fronts, because progressively fronts, ladies and gentlemen, are not formed with the left-wings of the extreme right that you have integrated into your majority. We're giving it to you. Hello, hello, hello!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. We shall proceed with Mr Varvitsiotis, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today none of the speakers have recalled that this is the day of memory of the murder of the remembranced George Athanasiades, the publisher of 'Bradini', a close friend of Constantine Karamanlis. His newspaper stopped publishing a junta ban following the publication of a letter by Constantine Karamanlis to the Greek people and again published the newspaper, after stopping for a long time with an obvious goal, with the well-known headline "E - E - come!". I say this because, on the one hand, we must honour people who have served in difficult times democracy, but also to remember that the battle against totalitarianism does not only belong to the Left. It belongs to all the patriotic democrats and many of them, including George Athanasiadis, we must all remember. I come to the bill, in which you are again trying to draw up dividing lines between those who support rights and those who oppose rights. And I really tried to understand through its provisions, beyond the committees it recommends, beyond the obvious step it takes to increase the quota, 40% of women's participation in the lists, I have really tried to understand the essential measures it introduces. And I can tell you that I do not see any real measures to remove discrimination. I have listened very carefully to the JRC rapporteur, who has mentioned a number of concrete measures that the government could have taken and which he has not done, concerning childbirth, equality in the labour market, in the work itself. However, none of these measures have been implemented. It is only in committees that your sensitivity is exhausted. I would like to say that it should be more bold and I would expect your bill to be more bold. It's really more bold. I would expect the directions for command to be more substantial. And the increase in funding and hosting structures is more substantial. And can I also tell you something that shows the lack of sensitivity you have? I have been working on the refugee and immigration issue for years. One of the main problems of the refugee and immigration question is the fact that in our country there are over two thousand unaccompanied minors, many of whom have no housing. And while every three and a little while we bring and raise this issue, you have not managed to create one more place of hospitality in the past two years. Two years of unpaid European funding, no hosting place. Some nine hundred of them, according to the statements made by the EPC, are on the way. This really shows a deficit of sensitivity. As I will tell you, a lack of sensitivity is shown by the amendment tabled by colleagues to extend the service time of CEDEFOP staff to hot spots. A few weeks ago - two weeks ago, ten days ago - the CDC bill came here. CEDEFOP has undertaken this task: to provide medical services to hot spots and refugee camps. There was no amendment. In the text of the bill there is no article stating that the CEDEFOP takes such action and continues to do so. A competition with European funding has been opened since last summer. It's not complete. The European funds for 2018 have been lost. It was 20 million euros. He's been disfellowshipped. And today we come and say to those who yesterday morning received an e-mail from CEDEFOP saying "Thank you for the cooperation. "Hello." that we will extend for another two months the duration of their contract until the CEDEFOP competition is completed and, of course, opening a window for simulations, because these people, with continuous extensions, are in place, without having succeeded in completing a design for a problem that is no longer extraordinary. It's regular. We know where the hot spots are, we know what needs they meet, you have in no way met these needs. And the other day, in two of them, and Samos and Mytilini, I found out that there is no longer the presence of the ERIC. It is almost slim and replaced and at the moment the only ones who serve the needs are some military doctors who have been recruited for this purpose, as if the task of the Greek Army is to keep running back and shut down the holes of the incompetence of a government that cannot be managed with inappropriate funding a problem not as large as you want to present it. And I come to the last point I would like to make. The rapporteur has rightly told us that this is the Kouduras law. And that's because it doesn't matter when the previous law changed. It doesn't matter what arrangements the previous governments have made. Your regulation has one single objective: how you will not lose the parliamentary majority for the election month and the month after the elections. You have not told us, however, if, after 15 June, they will be forced to resign, you will be calling for elections. You must have lost your declared one. Are you going to call an election on July 15th? Will this draft Prime Minister, who's been tickling lately to have an early election, and we have all laughed at him with this tickle? So what are you gonna do? Will you then bring the provision that they can hold both seats, and the Parliamentary in the national Parliament and in the European Parliament, or are you so sure that they will not be elected, because your party mechanism will not elect either Mr Dannelly or Mrs Kounduras? One place on the lists is for you to give them nothing else. To cover your eyes, to remove people who may be ideologically expressing you, such as Mrs Zorba with her postings, and to finish and to make them feel as if they were stunned with lemon mustards and have abandoned them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. We are moving on with Mrs Vayonakis, MP of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u240	Colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing an important bill, which comes as a follow-up to the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and which at its heart is gender equality through multilateral areas. It also contains improvements in citizenship, which attempts to cure problems arising from the implementation of the law that we voted on, as well as makes improvements to "ClITHENH" and to issues relating to Local Government I and II. I will stand on the first part, on equality issues, noting that as former chairman of the Committee on Equality in Chania, I am pleased, because the issues that we have asked for at the time and the realisation of them seems to be a long way away are today opening the way to their realisation. And one comment: The bill is in the right direction, but I am concerned that it will meet reactions from the ministries. I consider the planning and control of the implementation of policies with the gender dimension in individual policies and need, I note, attention and insistence on how this network of equality committees and structures will proceed to the bottom, not only as a recommendation, but also as a function. I believe, of course, that the establishment of the Equality Office in the regions is very positive, making it clear that, when there is no supportive staff structure and things are left to the good will, the supply and the care of some people, things are sometimes being put in place. The bill, therefore, in the first section is divided into four distinct chapters. The first chapter refers to the definition of basic concepts. It describes what mechanisms and bodies are for achieving the principle of equal treatment. As such, the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, the TBR, the Staff Regulations of the Ministries on Gender Equality, the Citizens' Counselor, and the Gender Equality Central Council in Article 9. The Regional Committee of Equality and the Equality Section of the Committee of the Regions reports on the regional Committee of the Regions, while at local level the Municipal Committee of Equality. A detailed description of the draft legislation is given of the setting-up of these committees. The second chapter, which, in my opinion, is perhaps the most important, provides for the incorporation of the principle of gender equality and the gender dimension in public policies. Each Ministry on an annual basis must present actions, measures and programmes to achieve these objectives, to post them on its website, to adopt quantitative and qualitative indicators on gender issues and to monitor their effectiveness. The draft law also provides for the mandatory inclusion of a gender-based impact assessment report in each legislation. These actions are also planned to be accompanied by the relevant resources to be recorded in the corresponding budgets. Furthermore, there is provision for compulsory maintenance of statistics on all gender-based public sector actors and should be sent to the General Secretariat’s Observatory. The minimum number of candidates per sex is increased to 40% in the parliamentary elections, already in the next parliamentary term. The formation of the collective bodies is a step in the direction of gender representation. It is being promoted - I consider this to be very important - gender equality through education. The gender dimension is part of public health and a special authorisation is granted for the submission to medically assisted reproduction. The third chapter provides for gender mainstreaming into private life and employment. The draft law provides for companies to be rewarded to promote gender equality through the equality mark, the strengthening of the SEA, which can investigate its own motion if there is an unequal treatment at the workplace. I think that the most important article in this chapter is that of promoting gender equality in the media, advertising and PSE competence. Finally, the fourth chapter refers to the structure and regulation of preventing violence against women. Here it is described exactly what this network of structures is, what they are to be established and what they are to be supervised. We're talking about women's advisory centres, women's hostels victims of racial violence, S.O.S. phone line. ‘19500’. It is planned to establish a structured network database and its rules of procedure. With regard to financing, it is envisaged that these structures may be co-financed through European and national resources. With regard to the now part of the interventions in local government, the government has shown in previous years that it supports local government agencies, regardless of party or other discrimination. Self-government support is our central political choice and is made not only by institutional arrangements, but also by increasing funding, through new tools such as "PHILDIMOS", which gave more than 2 billion euros to local government agencies. After all, everyone today admits in the area of self-government that local government had never seen so much money before. However, I would like to add that local government is being helped by targeted new recruitment of permanent staff to upgrade its services to citizens. At the same time, however, it is moving towards institutional democratic changes. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I'm going to stand on key points. With regard to deepening democracy, it provides for the dismantling of the head in the community councils. The Chair of the board of the relevant community shall be directly identified by the first cross-preferential consultant, provided that the combination has been received by more than 50%. In the event that there is no majority combination, the President is directly elected by the Council itself, by secret ballot between the two capitals of the first two combinations. At the same time, the opening of new candidates is promoted by increasing the number from 30% to 50% compared to the total number of seats in the municipal council. It is also very important that it is excluded - I say this in contrast to what has been said here - from the pre-election period to cover seasonal and service needs in places coming from return services. We are talking here about and it is an indicative case of the 3K, which is likely that the final tables with those who are successful may be announced during the self-government elections. Colleagues and colleagues, one could refer to other positive regulations in the bill - moreover, there are too many of them - as well as to very positive amendments, but there is no time for this. For all these reasons, therefore, I am voting in favour of today's bill, and I think that should be the case for all colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u241	Thank you. Please, Ms. Kasimatis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam Secretary, today is indeed a very important day, because this bill promotes the rights of women and gender equality, and that can only be good. Before I begin my speech, I would like to express my unequivocal condemnation of the events in Konitsa, where small children, unaccompanied refugee, were attacked by barbers and bats by man-made hoodmen, obviously intolerant to young children who have passed the horror of war, walked in deserts and swimped in seas to reach our country and find a place in the sun to get this treatment. I think Parliament together condemns and isolates these practices. We expect the police and judiciary to impose maximum penalties. With regard to the bill, which has a title on gender equality, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to invoke my capacity in the Council of Europe, which I am Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs, and which also participates in the Committee on the Promotion of the Istanbul Convention. I have also spoken in The Hague and Berlin and in London, where elsewhere I was called to promote the Treaty, and I was very pleased that the treaty was ratified in our own House. This treaty also has a dimension regarding the violence that women can suffer in Parliament. I think that is something that is generally not discussed. I have to say to you that I have also participated in the presentation of a very large inquiry carried out by the Council of Europe and by the International Parliamentary Union for the fact that many women of Parliament and Members of this House may be discriminated against. Just because I myself participate in this campaign - and so I declare the need to publicly denounce these practices and leave no room for impunity - I will have to refer to something that should have reacted to the whole House. I am referring to the top process of the Constitutional Review, which three male MPs took the vote of one of their colleagues, a colleague's wife, either because they disagreed with the content of her vote or because they considered that they could do so and decided, while the House had entrusted them with the responsibility of safeguarding the voting process, photographing it and leaking it into the media and creating various impressions on the person of parliament. Well, I'm very surprised. Of course, one of them almost apologized to me and said: 'What was I supposed to do, what was I supposed to show?' Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very great obligation from us, except to legislate - which we must legislate - we must set an example. And we cannot allow top-level procedures, which ultimately do not only lead to fundamental rights being violated, such as freedom of expression and the right, in any case, to have a different opinion. Here a top-level process is downgrading in total. I therefore believe that, according to the investigation I will present in the Minutes, this procedure should not be confined to, or personalised, one person or another. I think that the House itself or the rapporteurs of the bill, the Bureau, should refer the matter back and take an example of this and apply real sanctions so that no such phenomena are repeated. When such phenomena happen with open cameras inside the House, you understand what can be done behind closed doors. Of course you will tell me, as Breech says: 'Evil brought the crap or the evil?' That has not been answered. However, either one is valid or the other, they must be given a real public reproach so that both the friends and women of the labour are aware of those who really suffer discrimination. Economic violence is the greatest violence that women suffer from now on, all the suffering arises. So when such phenomena occur in women who are presumption, in any case, independent and dynamic, you in this House, you understand what may happen outside of society and which will actually pass under the radars. There are procedures, there are good practices, there are European proposals, if the Greeks are not to make us, and if the reasons for this need to be initiated by themselves, so that we can create and set this example of the zero tolerance that must exist to those who decide to abuse their position or their gender, in order to limit the other members of society who can also be active, to have their views and to fight for them. Thank you very much and I will look forward to the next initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, too. The speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. I'll speak from my place. It was an interesting subject raised by my fellow Member, but it was a matter of total confidentiality, when it comes to confidentiality, confidentiality or ethics. It concerns both sexes, both people, all fellow citizens in life and, of course, here in Parliament. I do not think that if he wanted to show for some reason a fellow Member who was from the two ways differentiating a Member chose to do so because he was a parliament and not a Member. In other words, I think the problem is wider and it was not about gender discrimination. It was in relation to the lack of respect for ethics, which says that there you are a voter, to do a certain job under the Rules of Procedure, to get the result and, on the basis of what the Rules of Procedure provide, to make the result announced. In other words, I think it is confusing for Mr Karayannides to say that, because it happened and was a parliament that was differentiated, he did so for that reason. Oh, no. It's even more serious, not meaning that it might not have existed in someone else's minds at some point and something like that. I think it is. In any case, I think that Greece has made huge progress since post-Culture and then, starting from the 1975 Constitution and, of course, with too many legislations, which have given the message that there are no discrimination in this area, that we are a modern country, which has banned discrimination at all levels and, of course, discrimination based on sex. We have banned discrimination at every level of public life, whether these are because of choices, colour, origin or belief. This is about Greece in the past. Improving the institutional legislative framework will certainly be a constant request, because there will always be issues that need to be regulated. But the most important thing is education. The most important thing is from the family and, of course, from the school to have the same education, so that you do not even have to think that there is a law, that you do not even have to think that a law provides for this to be done in this way, but that it is the result of the education and culture that man will have from his family, the school and the very social environment in which they are living. This progress has therefore been made in our country. He didn't come now, as some people tried to say. And the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman told us: 'Do you know how many hostels there are?' We know why the previous years have taken place. Of course, even more needs to be done. The hostels have been hosted by EKKA many years ago. We need to improve the framework, not to have problems and possibilities, and we need to have absolute protection for women who are resorting and covered in the security of the hostel from any threat, because there are such ones. The programme "The Harmonization of Occupational and Family Life" is certainly old. I'll tell you this. You're making this mistake. In 2014 with a hundred thousand children who entered as beneficiaries, with the same income limits no child left out. In 2017-2018, sixteen thousand children were left outside, despite the above coupons, with the same income limits. Is that what it means? That people, families with children, who are below income limits, were raised because of the further poverty that existed. The results of the crisis were not stopped calendarly either in 2014 or 2015, with the formal expiry of the second Memorandum, nor in August 2018, at the formal expiry of the third Memorandum. Unfortunately, the results of the crisis are there and there has been further poverty and there is still one. The beneficiaries of the CRL are constantly increasing. Look at it. And that's a problem. Of course, it is not about the Ministry of the Interior, whose bill we are debating today. It is, however, about overtaxation, about the burdens on both the family and the activities and, of course, about a trend in which, if you like, every activity is being pushed, there is more freedom than it is producing or living. What's the result? The result is that there is a question that needs to be addressed by the daily growth of people entering the range of poverty. This bill, to return to its other parts, does not have one particular topic - let us say the subject matter. He has three, four different agendas. They are very important, but they are four different agendas. Our position is not irrelevant in principle to this fact. In other words, we are voting 'at first' because there is no principle. There are partial lists, which are of course very important, but it is not one, there is no start. I come to the point of the provision on 'Help at Home' and the facilities for the competitions that will follow following the harmonisation of the agencies and all this development. Let me say that this was an initiative of our own, much older than since we had been responsible for the Ministry of Labour and which went ahead and thriving. Despite any problems, I think it is a very good development that will give results. The "Help at Home" not only has shown that it is the best program of self-government, but more must follow its model. In this sense, I think it is very important. However, there are the Creative Employment Centres for children and the Centres for Creative Employment for Disabled Children. I am sorry here, Minister, but there is a different attitude from the Ministry's side. We will have to see - if not this year - how we will prepare the ground from this year on so that by the end of this programming period we have an institutional change with the integration of the CSR and CSR AVR into the social services of the municipalities. And not only have seventy-nine CPDs we have today and fifty-nine for disabled children, but each child and every family can take the child to a creative employment centre. This will help very much to harmonize working and family life. This will help to alleviate mother and parents in general, of course, and to have more institutional - and in practice - the immunisation of what we call 'equal support for the family', so also the equality of what is most burdened. And de facto most of the weight the mother has, no matter how we do it. It is therefore an issue which concerns fundamental gender equality and non-discrimination. It is therefore something that we should go ahead with. I conclude - and thank you, Mr President - with our position on the amendment. Because the New Democracy also had to deal with it as an intervention a few days before the elections, I would like to remind Mr Vorides that the then Minister for the Interior - if I remember well - brought a few days before the elections an amendment that increased the number of candidates from 50% to 100%. That is to say, it is a practice which has been in place and which is negative, because, while the procedures had gone ahead and the combinations had actually been drawn up, a few days ago, having given in-house information to only some candidates - obviously friendly to him or his party, I cannot say for sure - it made this amendment and had prepared the other 50 and put them on the table. However, for him who is said to have had this arrangement, he lost the election. He's lost them so much. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that these arrangements will not help. Neither Kundura nor Mr. Danellis nor anyone else will save SYRIZA or they will not be saved through SYRIZA, in any case. I think that the rules, if they are institutionalised, should be respected, not for any other reason, but because they have to be known everything beforehand. That is foreseeable for Mr Moraite. He's not gonna add anything to them. It is hardly possible that this whole process, which has been done, has created reflexes. He moved the reflexes of the people on our line, and we see this every day. I would say that we should send a bouquet to Mr Tsipras, instead of blaming him for doing this steel act and for the ungodly act to our resignation, because he has benefited us. I thank him publicly and in Parliament at least. I believe that this amendment is beyond any logic. There's something going on in accordance with the rules. After all, on 15 June, since they are elected - but they will not be elected because of the pressure they have on their ballot - they will have to resign, as Mr Haritsis said. Then, as the Prime Minister says, there will be no question of this, since the elections will take place in October? Isn't there going to be a story from there? These are terminology, methods, tacticalisms, that are no use. It's no use! The decision of the Greek people I think will come and will not be affected by all of this. We and we are voting against this provision, although we are voting against and we are well aware of our creative position on important articles contained in the bill - to say this - but this attempt is being cancelled from philosophy "to pass on some things, such as - like, to go on with the situation". That is why I think it should really, even at the last minute, withdraw it. This amendment does not offer anything to the government or to SYRIZA or to Mr Tsipras and to proceed with the existing regime of respect for the distinct roles of a Member of Parliament and a Member of the European Parliament, so that the Greek people can actually judge without these terminologys. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for extending the time of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u247	What do you want, Mrs. Cassimatis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u248	I would like to add to what I have said, because Mr Kegeroglu has also been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u249	Add to what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u250	He referred to my speech. I'd like to make a clarification, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u251	Yes, but the Rules of Procedure do not provide for that. You should be happy to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u252	No, I'd like for a minute to explain. Just a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u253	You must ask for the floor on a personal subject, Mrs. Cassimatis. It's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u254	It's extremely personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u255	With the consent of the House, you have the floor. He's out of order, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much. The good colleague, Mr Kegeroglou, has shown sensitivity to the phenomenon that I have denounced and we all know, well said - and this is the view of things, and so is according to the definitions - that the ideological bullying - which has been attempted to do here the three gentlemen of the Committee of Inquiry, who have been sitting here - has nothing to do with gender as an incentive. The motive is certainly political, it is political. However, the question that they finally decide to violate the mandate of the House to ensure the validity of the procedure and of a vote and decide to do so to a colleague who is a woman and not to other men, who also had a different opinion, is what creates the particular issue, namely that you finally decide to do so because you think you can do so. I must tell you that none of the three men have yet to apologise or have taken responsibility for what is at least being charged to them, not even to deny it. Mr Karayannides and Mr Baxvanakis have not told me anything but Mr Fotillas who said to me: 'What was I supposed to say to Karayannides at that time?' He obviously thought he could fight with Kasimatis and not Karayannides. I think that these issues are not personal. The issue of this infringement is not just about violating the right to racial discrimination, it is about the fact that we decide to have quotas. There are women and men in Parliament representing the people, and they can be subject to such ideological coercion or violence. I don't have them, nor do I speak as a victim. I speak as a man who shows no tolerance to it, and that's why I'm saying it. That is why I think this is not a personal matter. It is about the fact that, in the end, freedom of expression is being undermined in Parliament, when another woman might think that she should not speak, she should not say so, that it can be misunderstood. Therefore, I repeat, it will cease to be personal and the House, the Bureau of Parliament, should, a parliament which has shown enormous sensitivity to the issue of combating discrimination and the position of women, take the initiative and refer the matter, as its own, to the Ethics Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u257	Please finish, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u258	I'll be right over. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time. Of course, following the guidelines I have put forward for the fact that there must be even more exemplary sanctions so that these phenomena do not only relive them, but not fear those colleagues who think they can do so, return to their position and their low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Haritsi. Eighteen minutes is enough for you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u260	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. Let me begin by confirming that there are five ministerial amendments that are accepted. These are the amendments with a general number of 2029, 2042, 2043, 2044 and 2045. As far as the legislative amendments are concerned, we have already said that the amendment is accepted under the general number 2028 of Mr Delis, Mr Lambroulis and Mr Vardalis. Amendments Nos 2032, 2034, 2035, 2036, 2046, 2047, 2049 and 2050 are also accepted. Let me just say a few words, if I may, on the amendment of general number 2041, which was an amendment by Members of the Democratic Alliance. It is an issue that has been of concern to us too. We are in contact with the Ministry of Education, because there are some issues from the new school year by financing this transfer. We will resolve these issues. That is why this amendment cannot now be accepted. We will resolve them so that it is unavoidable to transfer both the students of the artistic schools and for the next school year, 2019-2020. As regards Amendment No 2033, you have heard from the relevant Minister for Sport that he is moving in the right direction. It is the government's intention to accept it. But, in contact with the Deputy Minister of Finance, we also need to have a report from the State General Accounting Office and I therefore ask the signatories to withdraw it at the moment and re-submit it, when the State General Accounting Report is available a few days later, so that there is no problem with the Treasury. That is what I have to say in relation to the amendments. Mr President, when I begin my speech, you will allow me to express my disgrace and my anger about two very recent cases of racist violence in Vila and Konica. I hope and expect very soon the perpetrators of these atrocious attacks on refugees and immigrants to face the consequences of justice. Of course, they also show us these incidents, which come to be added to a number of others that preceded the previous period, that we have a lot to do, we have a long way to go, so that we can take up racism and fascism from Greek society. The draft law, which we are concluding today, went through a process of detailed consultation and discussion to the committees of the House in the last few days. It is, as you now know very well, three parts. I would, however, like, before entering the first part, to say that, in my opinion, it is good that the debate that has taken place in the committees and today has been quite productive. There have been issues and things that have been incorporated in the form of legislative improvements and in the body of the bill. That's something that cheers us up. I would like to point out something here, because I have heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative too earlier, Mr. Twelfths talking about the need for political and programming confrontation rather than screams, voices and gangs, since we have elections before us in the next few months at all levels. I think I can only agree with Mr Teddy. But, in my view, it should turn these criticisms more towards the Vice-President of his party, which we have heard before. He spoke, but he didn't mention anything about this bill. I think that it is really programmatic to confront it. It's political confrontation, it's ideological confrontation. That is the quintuosity of democracy. This bill is offered for such a fruitful discussion. So I start with the first part of the multi-brand plan, which provides for the promotion of gender equality and the fight against racial violence. Indeed - and I will agree with this with some of the things that were said earlier by Members, mainly coming from the Democratic Integration - very important legislative steps had been taken in the past towards the legal guarantee of gender equality. We see, however, that there is a great deal of distance between legal safeguarding and essential equality in practice, in everyday life, in the everyday lives of citizens. I have heard Mr Koutsouko speak before about a 'exposure of ideas'. Apart from the fact that this bill in its first thirty articles specifically refers to interventions that need to be done, I think it is wrong for us to do the work done by many members of our Ministry to get to the present result. We are therefore moving on to important, substantial, in our view, interventions. I shall refer to some of them. The fight for true gender equality - we all see it in the past - is not about the current Greek reality, it is about today's Greek society, and we see this inequality, access to work and pay, child rearing and jobs that are still disproportionately burdening women, sexual representations and the objective of women from the media, sexual harassment and racial violence. With this in mind, then, we are bringing in an integrated, institutional intervention, which is coming to cover significant gaps in these areas. In short, the bill, as you now know very well, strengthens the representation of women in political events, in this particular case in the House, but also in the European Parliament after the last legislation we have had today, from 1/3 to 40% of all candidates. I would remind you that there is already the provision for self-government elections in the 'KLITHEN' vote last year, in 2018. The bill incorporates gender dimension in the drafting of public documents, ensuring that equality is effectively guaranteed in employment, includes measures to promote equality in the media, advertising and the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council. In our opinion, however, it is also important to regulate the operation of a comprehensive network of local structures in our country for the prevention and treatment of violence against women. The operation of advisory centres and the operation of hostels for women, victims of racial violence. Here I would say that this network has guaranteed funding by the end of 2020 from the co-financed programmes of the ESDP. And of course, from the end of 2020 onwards, this network will be financed by the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u261	You left this to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u262	I'm leaving something for the end, Mr. Voridis. There will be no minimum burden on the municipalities for this very important programme. Of course, we do not have the illusion that a bill will resolve issues, pathogens and established perceptions, which exist in our society for too many years. We believe, however, that this is a bill in the right direction, the first part on equality issues, they are institutional, legislative interventions, which are helping precisely to create another worldview, more balanced and more fair. In conclusion, with regard to the first part, I would like to say that it is good, in my opinion, that, despite any individual objections, most of the forces of the democratic arch were placed in the committee and in the plenary on these provisions. I would like to thank the work that has been done by both the Deputy Minister, Mr Chrysovelonis and the Secretary-General, Mr Kouvella, and all the members of our Ministry, who have worked to achieve this result. I now come to the second part of the question of citizenship. First of all, we must today, even though most of these issues have been discussed in detail in committee too, than we seem to have made some further clarifications. First of all, for Article 40, because it was said by Mr Georganta, if I'm not mistaken, about the deceased. Apart from the established case-law of the CoR, Article 40 for the first time sets out arrangements for an issue that is arousing many of our fellow humans. As you will know, it has been the main outbreak of corruption in citizenship services for decades. So we're done with this. This article introduces very clear rules. And of course, since you also referred to the demands and asked me about the motives, "Why are we doing this again, some conspiracy is extinguished by the government of SYRIZA, it cannot...".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u263	No, the motives have been revealed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u264	There are Greek Americans, there are Greek people in Australia, there are Asia Minors who were found directly abroad and who will benefit from this arrangement. With regard to the question of the ex-Soviet relatives, so far what we had was applications that were late, they have been delaying many times for more than twenty years to consider. The frame is defined by circulars so far. We therefore say that the committee will examine the homogeneous status and there should be a minimum integration into Greek society. This is a detailed report in the explanatory statement. The Ministerial Decision will settle documents procedure issues that will be accepted by the examination procedure. In relation to what has been said on the part of the Democratic Association, particularly from Mrs Christophilopoulou, I would like to say that the time of the interview does not increase. The process is systemized, it remains at twenty-three minutes, as it is today. And of course, we have also worked with the relevant ministries on these issues. I would like to say that today those absent from our country, because because of the crisis they have moved to another country, know that their applications for Greek citizenship are being rejected. So what we are doing - and indeed in the legal systems that we have tabled today, you have seen that we have also given some clarification in relation to studies and health reasons - is precisely to enable these people to continue the process of applying for citizenship, of course, since they continue to maintain living relations with the country. Mr Vorides, I think we have discussed this adequately in the committee, but let's say it again. Repeat learning mother. And today, the acquisition of citizenship by the ancestors of Greek citizens is the case. We are doing what we are doing - and it is true with the case-law of the TEC, which I have here, and I am tabling it in the Minutes for the truth - are just to legislate, to institutionalise this case-law of the TEC, to make it a law. That's what we do. [[At this point Mr Alexis Haritsis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And, of course, because I said so before replying to another MEP, on the one hand we are listening to the New Democracy - and, in my opinion, it is a maximum contradiction - to break down its garments in relation to democratic Hellenism, with the effort we must make to support our displaced compatriots and, on the other hand, regulations such as these, which facilitate the acquisition of citizenship by citizens who are of Greek origin, I would expect you to support them with greater vigour. I would like to refer to something that Mr Delis has said about criminal offences. Indeed, this is a matter that we need to see. It also has a basis for this, and the Committee on the Code of citizenship will be set up to see these issues too, because it is something we need to consider. However, what we are trying to do in the second part of the bill - and I think that is the most important of all - is at last the Greek state, the Greek state, to operate in terms of a favoured state, on issues of citizenship performance. We believe that it is disgraceful for the Greek state in the years 2019 that there are still people who live in an unrivaled state, that is to say they have no citizenship. As was also a disgrace, in our view, she was going to, I would say, under Apartheid conditions, that by 2015 children born in our country were raised and went to school in Greece, worked, played, fell in love, made family in Greece, could not take Greek citizenship. So this has been restored by our government and we are proud of this act of our government. And, of course, the data that some Members of the New Democracy have submitted - and we will answer the relevant questions, when the time comes, in relation to the increase in the number of people who have acquired citizenship in recent years - have a vast majority to do with this very category. I repeat, we are proud of this development. Of course, as in the case of equality, I should like to say here that there is still much to be done. He even reminded us of the very interesting and touching, I would say, his intervention by the Member, Mr Mustafa Mustafa, of the problems facing many of our fellow citizens. We still have a lot of steps to take, indeed it is, as you said. But I think that we are also taking very important steps to make the system more transparent, more transparent, more objective and, of course, faster. I would like to say much more about citizenship, but unfortunately I see that there is not enough time. I shall therefore come to the issues relating to the third part, the electoral arrangements and the staff of local government. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like to thank you very much, and thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say the following. Because it has been said again, sometimes I have the impression that the debate that has taken place in committee, while in my opinion it was a very substantial debate, some people have not taken it into consideration and are back with the same arguments, with the same points which they raised at the time, which have been answered and yet it is as if we were at point zero. We are proud of the reform of the 'CLITHEN'. KLITHENIS is a major reform section which is a reserve for self-government and is fully credited to our Government. What we are doing with these regulations are two amendments to 'CLISTEN', amendments which certainly do not bring any surprises, because we have announced them for a long time. You know who they are. They concern a change in the way the president of the communities is elected and an increase in the level of candidates for drawing up the lists. These are changes which the vast majority of the self-government factors were calling for. We have, of course, responded, because - as I have said in committee - the process of dialogue with the self-government bodies does not stop by voting for a bill, but also continues during the implementation phase. In addition to the issues of KLITHENE, however, we have very important provisions in this draft law on the issues of staff and employees in local government. First of all, let me refer to this. That didn't sound much. It's good to say it. New Democracy's gonna blame us again for Rusphetic recruitment, but that's all right. We are responding to another consistent demand from the municipalities of the country and moving towards a rational increase in the maximum allowable number of fixed-term private-law contracts by nine hundred-three to thirty-three thousand to cover exactly major needs in the area of self-government, mainly primary administration, in the next few months, over the next few months. We are, of course, moving on to this lifting of the restrictions on the recruitment of certain categories again. Here I must say that, with regret, I have seen these days that, on the part of the Opposition, in particular, the Opposition Officer, what we have seen was a continuous, I would say, transfer of the critical scores. One was told that we were setting up parties, and the other was that we were making rosphetological recruitments, and the other was that we proceeded to recruitment with the provisional tables for the 3K. Today we have heard: 'Why do you not keep the provisional tables?' And white and black, then. So we say, and in this we are clear, that all the political forces must, on these very critical issues, which concern the present and future of self-government and concern key functions that are too critical for local societies, take a clear position. We say, therefore, that this suspension of the restriction - which concerns the 3K - concerns specific seasonal activities such as fire-fighting services, such as the recruitment of seafarers and a number of specialities that are crucial to self-government - we say that selfgovernment must be able in the next six months, since this regulation concerns six months and not just the election period of the next two months, to proceed with these recruitments. We're not talking about new recruits, we're talking about contracted seasonals, and we're talking about completing the biggest proclamation that ever came out for staff in self-government, about the 3K. We are waiting for the next period from the AACC and we are making it easier for the AACC to complete its work and these eight and a half thousand employees to finally go to the services of the municipalities, to work cleaning services with permanent staff. This is, in our opinion, the only way to meet these needs. On the contrary, I would say that from the position that I have heard, three things may happen: either you have no clear picture of what is actually happening today in self-government, how critical and vital it is the subsecution that exists at the moment, this is the one, or you have a clear picture, but although you know how critical this issue is, you are trying to sacrifice it on the altar of micro-party interests and micro-group criticism, or - the third - you are aware of what is happening, but you want to serve other purposes. You want to serve the entry of contractors to these very critical functions of self-government. Whatever of the three is happening, there must be clear words on the road to self-government polls. I expect all forces to stand up to these issues. Because I see that my time has been exhausted, I should like to close by saying that, in our opinion, this is a very important piece of legislation that we are voting on today. We are taking important steps towards effective equality and combating racial violence in our country as well. I sincerely amazed by anti-population officials who swear to Europeanism that they do not want us to follow European standards, European directives on citizenship, but want our country to remain third-worldly in these matters. We are making substantial steps towards the lifting of injustices - and this is the third part, it concerns workers in self-government - many of whom are due both to the then life and state of the current Chief of Officerial Reform and then to the Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis, for example, for school guards, for example, for the municipal police that we are restoring. So the commitment we have to give to workers, to the social strata that we want to represent, is that we will continue in this direction, and in the next period with legislative intervention, which will restore injustices, strengthen workers, resolve issues of social and individual rights for which our country must finally become a modernly favoured European state. In this direction we will continue and ask Parliament, from the National Representation, for your support in this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that a request for a roll-call vote on the 2043/101 amendment to the Ministry of the Interior bill has been tabled by the Democratic Integration and that the vote will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. electronically. I am also announcing that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-seven students and students and four teachers from the High School of Nestoria, Bogats and Korisos Kastorias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vorides has the floor now for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you're going to tell us something about the truck. Why am I saying that? Why, in the end, you must explain and you do not explain it, because the Greek people must bear a huge electoral cost when there are solutions that do not create it. Are you going to answer that? We told you what the solution is. The solution is this: without increasing the number of elections, you will go on Sunday to do the self-government elections, three ballots will be fine, and you will go on Sunday to make the European elections along with the second round of the self-government. So that's very easy. Will you explain why not? Let me tell you and express our deep concern here, which should primarily be your concern. Why? Why do you understand what is going to happen if this is the case in those days of the four polls, with the two polling stations, which are not two, but are 1 and 2, with the two electoral lists - which normally have to be per section - and in which election lists in some will be voted on in one, but in the same section, others will vote on, not the same, because it is not compulsory that anyone who comes to vote in the first section will then come out and join the second section. So others will vote and we will not have a electoral list - take note - of course, and at the risk of not finding anyone who needs to be found for legal representatives, that those who need to be elected should not show up for commissioners, that there is no guarantee of the presence of electoral representatives in forty-four thousand departments instead of twenty-three thousand. So we're talking about a huge risk here. And I come to ask you: This is the danger you take, you explain to us the political reason why you take it, why do we not understand it? I understand that you are nervous about what will happen to you in the self-government elections, but that will happen either way. So, in fact, you're not getting away with anything, you're gonna drink that glass. Then I say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u267	Peanut, sweet we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u268	There is no bitterer thing than that. It can't be more bitter. Not even a periphery! To be informed. Not even one! I make my predictions. But I say this: is that all why? So that you do not now have an adverse result ahead of the European elections. Okay, but there's not even tens of millions to be wasted for that reason. How much - estimate - are the elections? And in these elections you have to calculate the costs of the judicial representatives, you have to calculate the cost of the commissions, because if they are not sufficiently mobilised, no one will appear. What forty-two thousand? There's not gonna be a soul. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So, then, here now, what's the cost? Why do you take it, why are you taking the risk? That is what this amendment is all about. The second one I heard about the amendment.... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have some time, Mr. President? Because I see you're unpopular.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u269	I can't wait. How much longer do you want? I'll give you two more minutes, but let's keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u270	I will now tell you the second one which also does not explain to us. I am now talking about the 'Kounduras amendment' which the bill now described as 'Kounduras'. Well, I'm saying this now. What I didn't understand is why you're doing this. Not the political reason, the hostage you are in, I understand that. But can you explain the legislative reason? What is the ratio legis, what is the cause of this proposal, except for wanting to make Mrs Kundura's whim? What is the reasoning?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u271	Did you read the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u272	Yeah, I'm reading it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u273	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u274	And because the recital doesn't say anything, I ask you to have something more interesting to tell us. That is what I am saying, because the explanatory statement clearly does not say anything. I have heard this as an answer, ladies and gentlemen. It says, you know, it had also been legislated before the elections. What has been legislated, you want to remind us? The abolition of the cross of preferences was enacted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u275	Little thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u276	That's too big. Who disagreed in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u277	But we didn't talk about the content. We talked about the timing of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u278	Yes, but here we disagree, and it is of enormous importance to the electoral issues, because that is where no one can stand up and tell you that you are deliberately doing so. We tell you that exactly, you did it deliberately. When there was broad agreement in the Chamber on the abolition of the list in the European elections and the reintroduction of the cross and the introduction of the cross of preference, who would say so, after the political forces had been agreed? So, here's the answer you have to give us? As for the rest, I don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u279	Please finish this, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u280	I shall conclude, Mr President, although I miss the opportunity to make a legal analysis of what the Secretary-General of the Council of State claims.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u281	It's not the time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u282	Yeah, it's not about the subject now, it's all about this. But I say it because you know how different decisions are made. So I say - and I conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much - that as far as the major ones are concerned you have said nothing to us. And you haven't told us any more. You have not told us, for example, how to marry Euro-election ballots with self-government ballots with different political features. You're going to go put in the same electoral ballots that have different political features.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u283	Are you going to drive me crazy now? That's what happened in 2014, isn't it? Didn't the self-government become the European elections in the same electoral division?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u284	On the other hand, there was an election division, and now you put two election divisions, 251 A, 251 B. So I repeat that you are at risk only to serve electoral plans that will not save you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for three minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, we tabled a roll-call vote on the Tsipras amendment on European elections ahead of various Members and on the strange issue of partitioning, which does not guarantee for us the conditions to be met for transparency and total rationality - and, if you like, I also agree in part with Mr Vorides' argument - saving resources. Apart from the roll-call, Mr Minister, we also have a specific proposal to table, because, on the one hand, the Democratic Reconciliation Movement, the Change Movement denounces this amendment, which is why it calls for a roll-call vote, but on the other hand, let us see a proposal that is different from us which could also save resources and a call to save. Who's that? In municipal lists below, the combinations of local councils should be uniform. That would guarantee you, but you want the extra call. And, as I told you in committee, Minister, the additional polls are like quasi - and here is a subject - third degree of self-government, and that is unconstitutional and I told you in committee. Look at this little thing, it could save a lot by tomorrow. In other words, the roll-call vote gives you the right to see this again. You have seen from my position in the committee and here that the Change Movement does not want to opposition to the opposition and, in particular, to equality issues where there should be a minimum consensus, at least from the parties of the democratic arch. But let us put two or three things in place now that this debate is closing. The first is what you say to us - and I, as you have seen, was a good thing in my first speech - that this is the first time that we are going to go to practice. I don't understand. Can we agree that yes, we have a full legal framework for this? And you don't remove it, you put a hat on something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u287	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u288	That's what you said. And you, Minister, have said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u289	What about me? Do you want to see the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u290	We are not abolishing the legal framework. Leave me a moment, I didn't interrupt you. I heard you, too, and I heard Mrs Chrysovelonis. Wait a minute. We are still legislating and again institutionalising here, we are not doing anything new. We are doing something new with regard to the 40% quota and we have said 'yes'. Most of the articles we will be voting in favour and we have given concrete arguments why we will be voting in favour of them. We cannot say, however, that until now they have only been institutions, and now we are going to do so. We're doing another institution. That's why our locations were that they needed a lot more to do. I would remind you that gender studies were included in 2001 for the first time in universities. We've run, we've conquered a lot of things. It takes more in both sex studies and all the others, which I have referred to and have no time to expand! But to God, if we want to be consensual, let us understand that we need to unite forces in the democratic arc, because this is a complex matter. That is what the Democratic Reconciliation says, and that will always be said again. Now you will allow me to refer to the issues of citizenship. No, Minister. I wish it were as you say it will be twenty-three minutes. Perhaps we will have the opportunity through parliamentary control to see the issue of citizenship. You tell me today - so your services tell you - that he will have twenty to thirty minutes' interview. How? With the B1 and the exam you need two hours, Minister. There'll be long delays! I told you that, and I told you with tones. Because we do not want there to be delays. We want to help the process, which, in any case, we in the 2010 law first adopted. So in any case we want you to see this matter again. And here we are, if you bring in an amendment with a next bill, and judge and revise our criticism. But it is enough to see the ministerial decision you bring. And, frankly, I'm telling you, by hand in the heart, I wish we could make a mistake. But I'm afraid we're not wrong. In addition, I would like to say that there was an improvement that you brought to the issue of those who live abroad, but it is not enough. It's unfinished. I shall conclude, Minister, with two very brief points. I would like to make it clear that the Change Movement, the Democratic Incorporation - and I and Mrs Thelerite, too, wanted to sign this amendment, I think she can say it herself, if she takes the floor, is the amendment with a general number of 2034, which is about ensuring the financial management of the general government's bodies relating mainly to OTAs and their bodies and is signed by a number of SYRIZA colleagues - in line with this amendment. But I would ask you to sign it for a legal improvement of two words, to add two words, so that it can be complete. I can give it to you in writing. In the third paragraph, two words, ‘personnel pay’. If these are added, this whole story will be completely covered. And finally, your predecessor, Mr. Skourletis, is not here, but I wanted to say, through your capacity, that he awed us a little, and maybe we should also do something, your party in this case, that in Acharnes, the largest municipality where I deal with you, there was the high-ranking official of military justice, who broke the law and went and predicted the candidate of SYRIZA! That, whatever candidate he was planning, to be clear, I think he proves both the laws and the political process. Well, it's good to be careful. It is not the Minister's responsibility, but I say it to everyone, Mr President. Because these phenomena are not good phenomena, especially in times when the relationships between justice, government, state and various underground routes of your collapsing ministers today, "Pangulus" and others, are clear what they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u291	Thank you. Mr. Delis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with the contested amendment, the 'photography', do not mock each other now. What is this amendment doing? He's changing the rules of the election. That's not necessarily bad. But when, a few days, a few days before the nomination of candidates, the Communist Party of Greece cannot accept it, it cannot agree with it. That is why it ends up in 'the present'. I will start my denology with a word which has been heard several times today in the Chamber and all the days that we are working on the bill. It is the word "quota" of women's participation or gender participation. I think that if anyone takes the conclusion that the quota has not been dealt with or, ultimately, effectively, with women's inequality, then we add that gender is not what makes the difference, whether men's sex or women's. The difference is made by politics, whether it is a man or a woman, and what interests he serves with this policy, whether he is a man or a woman. That is, if it is with the people, with the popular layers or with the business groups and the capital. This is the real dividing line. Of course, here we have a lot of examples, which in recent years have been multiplying, women, large-scale shareholders, large-scale multinationals, very large companies, we have examples of women in the European Parliament, women in the governments in the various parliaments, who have nothing to do with their vote, and with their politics and these popular families. I would like to begin, with regard to the amendments, with an amendment which I meet for the second time in two months. I am talking about the amendment to the CEDEFOP. This is the fourth time tabled, twice in 2018, once in 2019, it is coming back now, and we think, Minister, that this will sometime have to be stopped. This issue must be dealt with definitively, namely the question of staffing these services with regard to refugees with a permanent and stable staff. I continue with the amendments tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. We believe that the family allowance cannot be paid - it is to a certain extent related to what we have said about gender equality - to be offset and finally abolished because of the existence of a personal difference, in accordance with the Law on the salaries of civil servants voted by the SYRIZA Government. This should also not be calculated, as should the benefit of unhealthy work. The next issue which we are addressing with our amendment is the measures which need to be taken to remove the debts to the municipalities. It is known that since May 2018 municipalities have been given the opportunity to auction and to seize amounts that are greater than EUR 500. Look, it's not that simple, with the general anti-popular policy and the tolerance that it has a very large part of the world, it also has this risk of confiscating their assets, cars, homes, anything you can imagine, even accounts. And it's already done. We think it should be stopped and given - and this is what our party's amendment proposes - the possibility for the municipal councils to delete, to freeze, even to settle debt payments, of course with the relevant and appropriate income criteria. We're not talking about horizontal application. The other three amendments relate to the first part of the bill, and we think that we are giving the government a golden opportunity to get away from the declaration of principles, in which we admit that it is too good, to get away from wishing, to accept them and to take very specific actions. First amendment. The childbirth allowance for all the women who give birth! What's that? Why would they only take it from those who give birth to their homes? Do you want one more thing? This law, this provision came in 2012. If I am not deceived, we have come out of the memorials, and so there is another reason to abolish this provision, which I think is the way it has been formulated for decades - not to say centuries - in a practice that women were born in their homes and fields. The second amendment concerns women's equality. You know, there's a provision in a law of 2000. And it says that in order for workers insured in the ECA to receive a maternity leave and a leave - a total of one hundred nineteen days - they should be on the day of birth and before they have completed a two-and-a-half. You tell me now: With this unemployment, with this two-hour, three-hour, and four-hour job, how many young girls - why are young girls working in these jobs, in the merchants - will they fill in the two-hour weights? And you know what else? Do you know that this provision is a provision of the post-election state? Is it a provision of 1951 and for more than seventy years remains here and continues? We believe that this amendment should also be accepted. And, of course, the last amendment concerns self-employed women, professionals, scientists, traders, rural women, who are, of course, obliged to work even a few hours before their birth and return in a very short time, since maternity benefits only take it for four months. And don't think that's a great allowance. We're talking about 200 euros. We are therefore saying that these women should receive maternity benefit for eight months and that the maternity allowance corresponds to the unemployment benefit of around EUR 360. That's what we're asking. They are very specific, very practical things so that this notorious debate on gender mainstreaming in public policies takes place to a certain extent and to a certain extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u293	Thank you for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Delis. Mrs Thelerite has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to refer to the possibility of splitting up the electoral divisions. I do not understand why this does not shield the electoral process and why it does not provide guarantees, since delays will be avoided and ensured by judicial representatives to operate under better conditions of regularity. On the other hand - those who remember - in 2014 there were three ballots. Just added one more time this time. In other words, we had self-government elections and European elections. With regard to the quota - which my colleague said by the Communist Party - we have to admit that the quota is a key tool for increasing women's participation in political life, but it should be accompanied, in order to make this instrument effective and by targeted policies, such as reconciliation of family, working life. Now, as far as the different definitions found in the bill are concerned, I think that after the legislative improvements a major problem has been solved. On the other hand, however, I have to identify colleagues and colleagues that these terminologies also result from the changes we have in the legislation in which we are canceling international treaties and that is why we have these changes. And here I shall mention - because it has been said in particular by my colleague, Mr Centroon - in the definition of rape. This is not mentioned in this bill, but it is the definition of the Criminal Code. We will therefore discuss this in the Criminal Code. Now, sexual orientation has been strongly raised by the colleague of the Officerial Response. There have been arguments about the relevance of sexual orientation and gender identity. I would like to stress from this step forward that sexual orientation and gender identity are integral parts of the individual's ethnic identity. It is therefore absolutely legitimate and necessary - I would say - when we legislate on essential gender equality too. I would remind you that the Gender ID is already recognised by Law 4491/2017. Furthermore, the law we have adopted, the Council of Europe Convention, already in paragraph 3, stipulates that the application of the provisions of the Convention and measures to protect the rights of victims will be guaranteed without discrimination on the grounds of sex, gender, race, etc. And he has a list of who they are. And that is what sexual orientation and gender identity are all about. So it was quite right that the ministry worked in the bill that way. Now, as far as citizenship is concerned, I would like to stress that the whole approach of counter-population is concerned, I think, because of these ideological and political differences, which are glimpseful. As a result, all the comments he makes on the provisions are precisely because of this ideological difference. So I think - we who do not believe that citizenship is different from citizenship - that anyone who has been legally resident for many years in our country cannot be excluded from the application for naturalisation for a period of time. This is true in every democratic country and in every social state. As far as recruitment is concerned, I was covered by the Minister. I would just like to add two things. This obsession can only be interpreted by what New Democracy wants to say, namely the privatization of local government services. I also think that a response is given by the municipalities themselves. More than 40 municipalities across the country - if we read it today that has been published - are calling for the administration of their services, which were particularly affected by a lack of staff following the restrictions imposed during the memorandum period. And finally, with regard to structures and prevention and eradication of violence against women, the Minister replied that funding is from ESDP programmes by 2020. The provision that exists is then to be covered by national resources. I would like to add, however, that we have sixty-two structures throughout the country - we have to have a certification of these structures so that the new structures that will be in place can be followed precisely in terms of staff and in terms of operating specific rules, so that the services can be effective. And we have to do this as a state and, in cooperation with the municipalities, have a certification and, on the basis of this, create new structures. Finally, with regard to the obsession with domestic violence mentioned by my colleague, Officer Responsibility, I would like to say that when we have already ratified the Istanbul Convention, we have not just gone to one ratification. We came and changed basic articles of the Criminal Code and therefore one of them was the article on domestic violence and the n.35000/2006 mentioned by my colleague. And I think that's where we put two serious points. And you realise that every time new conditions are created, we must adapt the legislation to these new needs created by society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u295	Thank you to SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Theleritis. The Minister has the floor to add or answer something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. I think most of them have answered. Since I have a chance, however, I shall say a few words. First of all, I would like to inform you - because a matter has also been raised by Mr Delis of the JRC - of some amendments which have been tabled. There are amendments, as I have explained for the SYRIZA Members' amendment, which also require consultation with the Ministry of Finance and cannot be unilaterally accepted by the Ministry of the Interior, since they relate to economic issues. However, I should like to inform you that, for the issues that have to do with the debts to the municipalities and the TAs as a whole, I would say - because in our original design, we had included such a regulation - in consultation with the ministries of finance and labour, because a bill from the government will come in total to regulate debts and debts to tax and to the insurance funds, that our provision of the Ministry of Interior on debt regulation to the local government will also be included in this, so that there will be a comprehensive legislative intervention on this issue. Now compared to the election. First of all, in relation to what Mrs Christophilopoulou said, I may not understand correctly, but I was left with the impression - confirm me or deny me - that the Democratic Assent was in agreement with the two of the three provisions of the electoral amendment to say so. I didn't understand that from your last placement. I'm not sure if I understand it correctly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u297	If you see my prototype, we had objections...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u298	I was left with that impression. Anyway, with regard to expenditure, first of all, I would like to say that Mr Voridis has rushed to confirm me when I said before in my speech that the New Democracy likes to carry the criticism goals. We have now heard that the problem is that we have decided to hold the elections at the same time. I don't even want to imagine what would happen today if we had a regulation that would change the date of the elections. I say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u299	The way we told you, bring her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u300	So I say this: Mr Voridis - and I address you not only to you personally, but to everyone - let me say this: first of all, we have completed the relevant process with the Ministry of Finance. The funds are guaranteed, and indeed because this year is a much better year for the Greek economy than for the previous years, and of course, than it was in 2000, than it was in 2014, we will have increased resources. Because you have spoken of motives and counter-incentives to inform you, although I have already done so, and I will return to that to colleagues from New Democracy, that we will also increase the remuneration to your colleagues in judiciary. So we're going to give a motive. It is an incentive which, in my opinion, is important, is fair to these people who undertake to carry out this difficult confessional work. We shall, therefore, proceed to this increase in their remuneration because we have now succeeded, our Government has succeeded in giving more money. I should also like to tell you that the total tank, because you have also raised this issue of the judicial representatives from all the different subcategories, together with sixty-four thousand people, and so there is no question, especially with the incentives that we are now giving, not to cover all the proposed positions which are not forty-four thousand - I will inform you yesterday with Mr Georgioda - is forty thousand, but that is a secondary one. Let me close with this, because in fact we have multiple elections: I will call for and make an appeal to all parties, particularly to the opposition parties. We believe that - as the Ministry of Interior I am now speaking - we have shown, recently with this debate and with the initiatives we have taken in previous days, that there is a communication with opposition parties on these issues, that we want to have an open dialogue with you. We want these issues to be dealt with, I mean the technical preparation of elections. So in a consensual way I invite you to respond to this call. I do not think that these are matters which have to do with institutional safeguarding the proper functioning of the system of elections in which micro-party controversies exist. So I invite you, from now on, to start a new start from tonight, in the next period, we will take corresponding initiatives to respond to them. We will play with open papers and all the parties will be fully informed whenever necessary at the parliamentary level, but also, of course, through the Intergroup which will start its work in a few days' time, so that we can move towards the multi-annual elections in May in a way that is institutionally satisfactory, technically sound and without problems. We will take all the necessary steps in this direction and I invite you to help in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think there is no other speaker in the Chamber. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Promoting essential gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence - Provisions on the awarding of citizenship - Provisions on elections in Local Government - Other provisions". We are aware that a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Independence PASOK - DIMAR on the Ministerial Amendment No 2043 and general number 101. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 March 2019 at 3 p.m. We are informing that the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law should remain tomorrow after the roll-call vote to vote on the farewell article and the whole draft law. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments to the draft law, and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the draft law, a hundred and sixteen articles and eleven amendments. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have passed all the articles and amendments. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, until the vote is completed I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, sixteen students and students and two educational sessions from the Amerio Karpathos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform the students and students that we are at the end of a sitting of one of Parliament's two tasks: one is legislative work, one that is being done today, and the other is parliamentary control, namely control by the Members of Parliament to the government and the Ministers. Today we discussed a bill from the Ministry of the Interior. We are in the voting process. If it is adopted, it will become a law of the state. The vote is now taking place electronically, i.e. the representatives of the different parties see on the screen the articles to be voted on, they vote on, and the whole voting procedure has been simplified and shortened. If you remain until the end of the vote, you will also hear the announcement of the result. I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u303	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] Promote gender equality, prevent and combat racial violence. Arrangements for the award of citizenship. Provisions on elections in Local Government. Other provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Ioannis Delis and Friday Christophilopoulou, expressing clarification - correction of votes and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u305	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: 'Promoting the effective gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence - Regulations on the award of citizenship - Provisions on elections to local government - Other provisions' was accepted by a majority in principle, on the articles and amendments, apart from the amendment on which a roll-call vote has been requested, which, as is well known, will be taken tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close, I would like to inform you that the New Democracy MP, Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, is requesting permission from abroad from 19-3-2019 to 20-3-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u306	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-19-S1-commons.u307	With the consent of the House at 20.50' the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday 20 March 2019 at 15.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, roll-call vote on the 2043/101 amendment and vote on the nominated article and the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Promoting essential gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence - Regulations on the award of citizenship - Provisions on elections in Local Government - Other provisions".
