ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 26-8-2019 authorisation, the minutes of the IMI's PRACTICE minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Monday 26 August 2019 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Personal Data Protection Authority, implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and incorporating into national legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016’.]] Before entering today's agenda I would like to make some announcements to this House: The Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Finance, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Interior, Tourism, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 28-8-2019: "Confidence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions". This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submitted its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Consolidation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to inform you that: under the number 14062/8073, of 28 August 2019, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made by the subcommittees of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Subcommittees of the Special Standing Committees: a) Subcommittee on Water Resources of the Special Standing Committee on the Environment, b) Subcommittee on Disabled Persons of the Special Permanent Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights and c) Subcommittee on Island and Mountains of the Special Standing Committee on Regions. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Rodopis Dimitris Haritou seeks permission from abroad - in Great Britain and Scotland - for family reasons from 11 September to 15 September. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission. [[CHANGES BACK FOR CHANGING MATTER]] In addition, the Member, Mr Euripidis Stylianides, is requesting a short-day absence abroad from 2 September to 6 September. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u4	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Confidentiality of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions'. The above bill, following the decision of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is being discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, the debate and vote of the urgent drafts is closed at a maximum of ten hours. During the urgent debate, the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives shall be involved. Their speech in the urgent bills is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, in parliamentary practice, that the debate on the principle and the articles be uniform. I also propose that the list of speakers be extended and that two to three speakers be appointed by each parliamentary group. It will, in other words, be circles of six Members. With regard to speaking time I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speaker should have eight minutes of speaking time, the competent ministers ten minutes, any other ministers and State Secretarys who will ask for the floor five minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, 10 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups eight minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, 10 minutes and those of the political parties five minutes. Does the House agree with this procedure? Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Gokas are asking for the floor. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is one matter of urgency, but also of the structure of the bill, because at no time during the entire process in the Commission, but also in the Conference of Presidents, it was not explained exactly what the urgent matter was. For our part, of course, we recognise that you have a parliamentary majority and can define the procedures at hand. However, I do not think that this is a way for Parliament to function. I would therefore say, Mr President, that at no time has it been explained what the urgency is, nor in the debate in the Conference of Presidents or, of course, in the committee. I recognise, of course, that the New Democracy has the parliamentary majority and can determine the procedures at hand, precisely because it has the majority in the Chamber. But there is a more comprehensive issue here, in relation to the conditions laid down by Parliament. Because, of the five bills, which have been discussed since the new government and the new majority in Parliament, the three of them have come in the form of urgency and one of them has come in the form of urgency. We therefore have four out of five procedures, which are excellent legislative procedures. I do not think that is what honours the MPs. I do not think that is what honours Parliament's function. In any case, at some point, the government must explain to us whether it intends to continue to legislate in this way. Because the disdain of Parliament, which has taken place in the past one and a half months, I think it has no precedent. I would like to say another thing, which is extremely important, but also essential: at the Conference of Presidents, we had discussed that this bill will be a draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and it will contain no other provisions. You can understand that the process is becoming even more difficult given that we have provisions from much more ministries, which were not even involved by the relevant committees, namely, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the drafting of the draft law, which creates an extremely big problem in the debate, and that Parliament should be able to take a position on all the issues that concern it. So I appreciate that these procedures do not honor us. Because there is a negative precedent, I would like to point out one last thing, Mr President. In the debate on the TAs bill, there was an extremely problematic procedure with the absolute responsibility of the Government, which involved tabling an amendment from the Ministry of Labour and from Mr Brutsis a quarter before the end of the procedure, without even having been informed that such an amendment is to come to Parliament. This has also led to an unprecedented post-government period - and if I am mistaken, Mr President, correct me - on behalf of the parliamentary parties, where we had the news that the whole of the opposition left the Chamber and that the New Democracy was left to legislate on its own. I do not remember - you may have better knowledge than I have in relation to what has happened in Parliament since 1974 - that such an event has taken place since 1974, i.e. that the whole of the Opposition should be removed from Parliament. That is why I would like to tell you this, Mr President: if the government intends to bring amendments, and indeed important amendments, which will probably resolve issues of institutional structure and possibly the heads of government's narrow core, it is important that you tell us within the next twenty, twenty-five minutes - I imagine the government will have organised its legislative initiative for this day until now, so it will not be so difficult to inform us whether it intends or does not intend to table amendments - so that we too have the opportunity to know how the process is going to develop. I think that is a reasonable request from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u7	Mr Lebanese also has asked for the floor. Mr Goka, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u8	As we said yesterday in committee, we do not agree with the classification of this bill as urgent, a draft law by the Ministry of Transport, which is only a third of the total provisions, a draft law without principle, which is more than a bill. Mr President, there is a continuation and a copy of the previous government's practices with the urgent bills and their statement at the last minute. The bill was filed at midnight Wednesday, and we had little time to prepare. I therefore want to denounce this procedure as unacceptable. Indeed, most of the bills are urgent - one urgency and one by normal procedure - and I would like it not to be repeated. It is true that in this debate and in this context, it is obviously not possible to be effective and essential. I believe that the government has announced other things and I do not think it recommends reintroducing this method of legislating to normality. The second thing I wanted to do, Mr President, is to ask a question about the existence of other amendments, apart from the one of the Minister for Rural Development, which has been tabled, because this distorting procedure, followed by the supposed urgent need to discuss this draft law, we hope that it will not continue in today's debate and in other such amendments. Yesterday it was made by the Minister and invoked by another article unrelated to the issue of driving licences, that this was, he says, an urgent one. I believe that the need to vote or pass some amendments seems to have led to the construction of an emergency bill. The third point I would like to make, Mr President, is the time for the rapporteurs' positions. As long as the position on both the principle and the articles is uniform, I propose that the time should be double, that it should not be eight minutes for the rapporteurs, because we do not have time in eight minutes to develop our position on both the principle and the articles. So the time should be twice the time you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u9	We agree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u10	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u11	We disagree with the urgency. The government has made it a rule, and it should be an exception. Politically there are no substantiated excuses, and so not only are we expressing our disagreement, but we denounce it as a process of authoritarianism, which will squeeze every body from being called on for its purpose and express its opinion, its objections, its criticism, but also its criticism, in fact, in the parties, time is limited to expressing any criticism, but also proposals. That was why we left yesterday for a statement of protest from the committee, denounced this whole process. Finally, there cannot be the form and nature of the urgency in which the time is limited and we can also be changed, for which there is no time left or no time left. I say this because this bill concerns eight ministries and the amendment you tabled a few minutes ago is nine with the Ministry of Agriculture and we do not know in the next few hours what else is going to happen. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u12	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Lebanon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. We all have a bad experience from the past. Perhaps we should look a little back at the subject of the Rules of Procedure. We remember in the recent past too many bills, that more than 25% of the bills you brought, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in the last four years, came in the form of urgency and urgency. A lot, not changing during the course and a name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u14	Emergency. We had three years to testify urgently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u15	There were too many amendments to this House - ten, fifteen, twenty - in every bill, without any rapporteur's report. There were too many who had no report from the General Accounting Office of the State. There was a huge exploitation of this whole story. We remember, as a clerk of this effort to make good legislation on your part in the weeks after the European elections, where you did not find a date to put the elections to satisfy your party intentions and the 'dates'. I can find more to tell you. However, I do not want to attempt to clear up - as you do not want - because we started very well - I think - for the first time. I also understand your democratic sensitivity. Do not, under any circumstances, be taken as the disposal of the government or of our own parliamentary group to use as a white cheque, obviously, the verdict of the Greek people. We all want to see Parliament working, as the President said in his opening speech. That's clear and we're with you. I think all the wings of the House are moving in this direction. There are, however, too many problems that this government must quickly resolve and give solutions to alleviate, firstly, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. We must solve problems which you may not have had to deal with - to be decent - with you to solve. We still need to improve situations that you left behind, such as those that exist in this bill. The government's effort is clear. From the government's lips, the most officially heard - and we accept it in good faith, I think you will accept it too - that this will not be regularity. It starts a car running at high speed to improve the situation of the country. So we start marseling at first, but in the course of the course we will go to third, fourth and fifth speeds. They're gonna get into a normality. So we'll all feel much more familiar with a process that we're not used to in the past. I just wanted to say that you have a point. Many of these provisions have nothing to do with each other. If they were to come as amendments, as you have done all the time in previous years, they would neither be able to pass through the committee nor could the Members. Most of all, Members could not hear the Ministers' suggestions. So what happened yesterday, that is, a good dialogue at some times, a little more intense in some others, is a good effort - and it is good for you to give those credit - so that these amendments can be gathered in a mini-nomial plan, so that they can come through quickly and alleviate people, such as the hundreds of thousands of our fellow people, who cannot get their diplomas today and many others, who are in. I therefore think that this process is in the right direction, with all that we have said to be registered in our democratic conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u16	After the parliamentary representatives spoke, I would like to speak on behalf of the Bureau and the House on this procedure and on these objections to the fact that most of the bills so far have come under the urgency procedure. That's undeniable. But it is not right and it creates a pessimistic prospect if we draw statistical data from the first month of legislative work. And I'm not talking about the government. I'm talking about the House. The first month of legislative work - it is literally the first month of the year - is not a statistical sample of behaviour nor of the government - I dare say, without talking to me, either of this House. You said this procedure was authoritarian. I know that the government itself, through the Government representative, had very recently renounced the last-minute procedure, admitting that this does not constitute the rule and explaining that what led to the withdrawal - which you reminded us - before the end of this House, is not about the last-minute amendments to be normal practice or even to be repeated. The government itself, therefore, raised the bar. There is an interesting story about your question whether it has happened since the transfer of such an area of departure. There's been a longer departure before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u17	So everyone's gone? Is collapsing gone too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u18	There has been a longer departure, but let me tell you that there is also a stay in plenary - and I will tell you why it has been - which is worse than a departure. Listen, Mr. Vicha, I see you wondering what I mean. When he spoke from plenary, here, General De Goll in the spring of 1961, he was ready for the Prime Minister to answer. That's how she's used to it. The opposition demanded that the Prime Minister responded, that everyone respond, or else they would leave. And the Prime Minister, in order to prevent the country from becoming a revival with the mass withdrawal of the opposition, in the presence of the leader of France, renounced his right to welcome the leader of the French state to the Greek Parliament. So it's not just the departures that matter, it's the escapades sometimes that have a bad reason. I mention this because Mr Janakopoulos raised a matter if it has been done before, and I can explain that the phenomena are being deceived.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u19	This is before 1974. He said post-government!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u20	Wait, Mr. Baroness. There are interesting stories. Now, as far as Parliament is concerned: the urgency procedure is not decided when the bill comes to plenary. The urgency procedure is a proposal from the accelerated Minister and the committee accepts it. Obviously, as Mr Janakopoulos said, there is a majority. It's always like that. But it is not just a majority. It is also the essence of the House and the Bureau. You will allow me to make a brief regression. When the Conference of Presidents anticipated that there would be no amendments to the bill on personal data - so the debate began in the Conference of Presidents - which had only one, but which was a pleasant and necessary amendment to the end of the capital controls, which gave a huge breath to the country and to the economy, so I said that there would be a draft bill, an urgent request from the Ministry of Transport, which I identified as urgent, because eighty thousand citizens - are waiting for - I was wrong, it is more than a hundred thousand citizens - to resolve their issue, which, as I said in the Conference of Presidents - will also have amendments. And he asked me - I remember - Mr Constantinople these amendments to come as soon as possible. Those amendments I have spoken about have basically been incorporated into the bill in the form of urgent other provisions. Today, because you have asked me, we have five amendments, one of which is the amendment approved by the government, a meticulously and formally correct remark concerning the lack of three paragraphs of Article 18 of the signature of the Minister of Justice, so that fatefully this will come as an amendment, with the signature of the Minister of Justice, following the acceptance of these remarks by the opposition. There is also an urgent amendment from the Ministry of Agriculture and we will have a total of five amendments from the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Civil Protection, which will not come at the last minute. They'll be here in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u21	Do we know what this is about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u22	I'll finish first. I let you finish. As far as this House and the Bureau are concerned, and as far as the urgent procedure is concerned, I will tell you that the House does not accept what is being said about urgency. They are judged and do not just go by majority vote. I have to say that as far as this bill is concerned, to justify the urgent procedure, the Ministry of Transport has said in the report that there is an increased number of pending applications for a driving licence, which exceeds 100 000. The responsibility of the Ministry of Finance is mentioned in some amendments to coefficients and emission standards, which must apply from 1-9-2019. The provision of competence of the Ministry of the Environment speaks of the beneficiaries of a reduced debit of accounts by the EMCDDA and says, ‘The above Ministerial Decision to reduce these accounts has so far not been adopted, therefore, for low-voltage household consumers to continue to impose significantly increased charges in relation to the other categories of consumers’. So it is not accurate that it only goes by the majority. It is the House - and I am speaking in this sense on behalf of the House - that is to say, the majority provided, if that is the case, for urgent reasons. Now, if you ask me whether what has happened over the past month is the rule, and if your remark is correct, that this kind of urgent legislation makes it difficult to have time, it makes it difficult to talk enough, it makes it difficult to control legislative initiatives more difficult, and I will answer that all you say is right, as long as it lasts. Nothing shows us that this will continue within the course of the term of office of the Parliament or the Government, based on the assurances of the Government, but also on our own supervision of the matter and the view that all this is not the norm. That is what I wanted to say on your remarks and continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u24	Wait a minute. Do the parliamentary representatives want to take a second step?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u25	Yes, for a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u26	Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I do not want to anticipate what is going to happen in the legislative process which the government intends to follow. However, I must point out that we have a first sample. And this first sample - I think you too recognized it - is rather negative. I say again that the omens are not good. We hope that the government will rectify the next period, after the pressures of the Opposition and do not continue this way of legislating, which, as I said before, deprives Parliament and does not give space and time to exist on technical and practical issues, even shocks, if any, as was done in previous phases. Now, with regard to what the previous government has done, I would like to tell you and remind you that in the last three years the previous government has not brought any urgent bill. Even the bills, which related to the completion of evaluations, came with the urgency of calling for the bodies to be asked, for there to be more discussion in the committees, despite the fact that it was given that time was pressing because of the committee procedure in which the country had been in 2010. Therefore, you should not, in my opinion, use comparisons and set-offs. In conclusion, I would like to say this, Mr President: you said that the Ministry of Civil Protection intends to bring an amendment. I imagine - perhaps I will also make a mistake - that you are aware of its content. Maybe not. In any case, I would like to warn the Government that if it intends to change retroactive terms and conditions to define the choice of a public body, in order to cover illegality, which has been mentioned the previous time on the part of Officerial Response, on the part of SYRIZA, not to dare to do so!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u28	For the sake of history alone, I will tell you that in the previous period we had no urgency, but fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u29	I said that we had three years to testify urgently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u30	Just choose the statistical time that is favorable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u31	Let me tell you that we had three years to submit an urgent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u32	I choose the whole period. You who now choose the first month - and you do well, because the first month has a lot of urgency - let me pick for the last four years, which had fifteen urgency and thirty-two urgents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u33	The first month you've already brought three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u34	I would remind you that under the regulations of 2016 and 2017 - very recent - the emergency was almost urgent, but one day more. All of this, however, is irrelevant, because in a short time, fatality, and the current government will have a past and we will know and speak much more objectively if it brings more or less urgent bills. Has another Parliamentary Representative asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u35	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. According to what you mentioned under the Rules of Procedure of the House, they are typically all right. On the substance of the matter, however, also in the debate yesterday in the committee, but I believe today in plenary, it will seem that this bill has no urgency, because, after two, three days, the legislature - and in particular the proper legislature, by means of a dialogue, would produce much better results and perhaps even more effective solutions to the real problem, which is afflicting hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like you to tell us what their content is. In any case, however, we should have these amendments immediately. We cannot take the amendments at the end of the procedure and do not have time to read them. I would also like to remind you that there were indeed legislative procedures, which Parliament was presenting to the eyes of citizens at the time of the governance of SYRIZA. This should not, however, be an alibi to the new government, which promised another normality. The scripts so far - I am sorry to say, Mr President - are disappointing. In conclusion, I would like to reinstate the request for the speaking time of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u38	As regards the speaking time of the rapporteurs, you should know that this is usually solved with an understanding. However, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, this is the time I have proposed to you. I didn't suggest you an idea of mine. I have proposed the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Of course there will be a relative understanding. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. We had decided to talk about everything in plenary, but in fact, the challenges are too many, listening to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and Mr Janakopoulos. He said that we have a bad experience from the past. So I ask: Why do you go on? You continue it because it's a game between the two. Also, Mr President, and with all due respect, by following this debate - why are you asking us to follow the rules - we wonder why Parliament does not follow the rules, to respect the others. Of course, you have a majority and you can legislate yourself, but you must also show the necessary respect for our own person, who, as a opposition, come here to say our views, to make our proposals and ask for the necessary procedures. You served in a competition for who did less wrong in previous years, if it was fifteen of the urgent bills, twelve, thirteen or if New Democracy already has five or four. Why don't we go back to normality? What we are all asking is for us to return to normality and for this House to function properly. I believe that, with this bill, the New Democracy colleagues have exceeded themselves. All this reminds me of a line from Galilee that “the greatest success is next.” That's what we were talking about for every bill of yours, but that's where you got over yourself. At 11 o'clock it was tabled and we had to be ready for the committee at 10 o'clock in the morning, just like the others here. That's not normal. We ask for a return to normality and not to compare the mistakes of the two. The House is not a New Democracy and a SYRIZA. The House is the rest of the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u40	Mrs Manolakou has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u41	Look, you're saying this isn't an authoritarian process. When five amendments are coming, which the rapporteurs do not know, how will they be put in place? At the same time, they have no right to dentext through the urgency procedure. So you are bringing amendments that you do not want to hear the opinion, the criticism, the opposition of the other parties. That's what you're doing. So it is not a question of fighting who has brought more or less in the form of urgency. The form of urgency, I say again, must be the exception. And you in the month that you're government, 75% of the legislation you brought is in the form of emergency. So it's an autocracy. What are we asking you for? We are calling for the amendments to be withdrawn and for them not to come - we are putting this request - under the responsibility of the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u42	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. We likewise think that - and I shall refer primarily to this bill - there is no specific reference in the explanatory statement to a specific paragraph, because in general, this draft law is introduced in accordance with the urgency procedure. The fact that we can now draw from the provisions, in interpretative terms, such as the requests you mentioned, that this is why it can be introduced in accordance with the urgency procedure, I think it is an arbitrary interpretation. So far, the four of the five bills have been introduced under the urgency procedure. So far we think this is a systematic and permanent tactic of the government. What happens in the future and whether we return to normality is just a guess. We believe that these procedures are in breach of parliamentary practice. This two-party game of what SYRIZA did, as the Greek Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution quite rightly said, brings together the entire parliamentary process, at the end of the day, the Greek people, because these are economic policy issues, government policy, which have a direct impact on the life of the Greek citizen. The Conference of Presidents decided that only the issues of the Ministry of Transport will be introduced under the urgency procedure, and here we have amendments, which concern seven other ministries. We are therefore condemning this policy. We're denounced. We hope to return to normality. In any case, however, when most of the bills are tabled, 11.00 at night, we are not allowed to work them out properly, to follow the process of public consultation, to listen to the bodies, in order to make effective rather than regular legislation. It is not about rapid legitimisation. It is a question of effective legalization, so that we can actually return to normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u44	Mr Lebanese has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u45	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We fully understand the positions of the parliamentary representatives of opposition. But we do not accept that this will continue, as I have said before. From the government's lips this has been heard. We'll give them a chance to see how this is going to turn out. It's the beginning. That won't be normality. But, Mr President, you will allow me to say that we do not accept lessons from the representatives of SYRIZA. We do not accept lessons of democracy from SYRIZA representatives. Urgents have become an emergency in your day. You've made dates that you've changed. You were coming here and creating a subject with all the issues just to pass your views without discussions. You're not innocent pigeons. You can't, you're not entitled to do the innocent doves. You have no right to give up on us in the first one and a half months of government for how we govern. We'll be judged in the process. I would like to say, however - and the Minister will tell you shortly - that I cannot understand your sensitivity. You've left a hundred and a half thousand people for nine months without their diplomas. They can't go to work. Big people can't go to hospitals. The economy is going down. The industry loses money, the state loses money. You come here and tell us how we have to do our work and you are not actually talking about it at all. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] There are many issues that you have not just left out, but you have been dissolving in too many sectors of the economy. One of what was discussed yesterday was PPC. We're trying to save and collect the bones of what you've created.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u46	Now, Mr President, it is causing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u47	If PPC on 24 September does not have a plan, there would be a destabilisation plan for PPC and therefore, banks and the economy as a whole. That was your government. We do not allow you to leave the New Democracy Government forty-five days. We shall proceed with this process and then be judged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u48	I'll give...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u50	No, because this story has to be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u51	I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Vitsa, we've been talking about our opinions. It is time for the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u53	If Mr. Vitch speaks, I'll ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Vitsa, you're inventive, but there's no procedural issue. You will allow me to summarise from now on, and I think we will all agree, because you do not really disagree here today and I will explain why. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, Mr. Janakopoulos, there are other views.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u55	Will you tell us what we're going to think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u56	Listen to something. It's a word...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u57	Are you going to force us what we're going to think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u58	No, I'll try. I won't say it. I may fail, but let me try. Don't forbid me to try. The word - key to your complaint...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u59	It's not a complaint. We're not complaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u60	...to the cause you have submitted, it's a sample of legislative behaviour. The sample has the percentage Mrs Manolaku said. It's arithmetic. No one refuses this sample. The question is: will this be the sample from now on? The sample cannot be taken from the first month, I say, of the legislative work, Mr Janakopoulos. Therefore, since the anxiety is about normal legislature, I am sure, as the government has committed itself, that this is not a sample.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u61	It's a sample.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u62	It is a response to urgent needs that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the majority of them have been deemed to be present. Mr Vitsas has asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. Tell us, Mr. Vitsa, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u63	You said I was inventive, but I said on a point of order. The procedure says this: at the moment we know that three amendments will come which - formally or in fact - we do not know. The rapporteurs will start talking. I would like to say in this context that if the amendments come and there is a request from a Parliamentary group to separate the debate on the amendments or an amendment, it must be accepted. That is the issue. Secondly, I have heard Mr Lebanese. As Harry Clinne would say: "You do not accept it, you do not accept it, but you do it." That's the point. Finally, the third question is how urgent it is. Look at all the articles of the Ministry of Interior. There are two urgent issues. One is the transfer of pupils, and I agree with you. The second one could not solve it either. Instead of saying that if the 1st of September falls Sunday, then procedures can be held on the municipal councils, you say "Only for this time is urgent..." - because Mr Mitsotakis will be 7 and 8 September in Thessaloniki, that is the main issue - "...so we legislate." Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, could I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u66	Here, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I would like to present my experience here in what is happening today. First of all, there is no procedural procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u68	There is a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u69	The Rules of Procedure should have been signed and discussed with the President and given the floor on the Rules of Procedure and, indeed, the President will have to decide whether there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So this whole debate is now taking place on urgency, namely whether the bill will be discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, since the committee has recommended it, because the committee has recommended it and accepted the government's suggestion. From that point of view, the procedure is as follows: we need to speak a word and a copy of the urgency procedure. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, we are giving the floor to the Members of Parliament who are present. But this is in breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, when they take the floor, they should not...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u70	Determined on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u71	Yes, it is a regular practice, but in violation of the Rules of Procedure. So it is not possible - and I saw this in committee - that whenever a parliamentary representative raises his hand to take the floor. It only twice asks the President and the President has the right to give him and indeed to discuss the bill three times. So you realise that this procedure must go ahead. There is the requester to defend the urgent procedure, the one to oppose it and the House to make a decision to complete this procedure. As far as what Mr Vitsas said is concerned, there is no separation of the vote. The separation of the vote is whether an amendment or anything else relates to a position which the Qualified Opposition or the whole Opposition does not accept and may request a roll-call vote. The major point in this matter is now: because there was a comparison and I did not want to go into the urgent and urgent comparison procedure in our previous parliamentary term - I am sorry that Mr Voutsis is not present - at the Conference of Presidents there was a consensus, a good climate. I see now that there is a parliamentary upset, that is, at least from the point of view of the Officerial Response. So you realise that this will cause us problems. Last time we accepted, despite the fact that the procedure was carried out in the form of the urgency procedure, that there should also be an interim day for bodies to be heard, which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We at the Conference of Presidents accepted it and acted. And Mr. Voutsis accepted that. We're talking about the emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u72	Make it up to you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u73	From there on, to complete this issue, I propose: 'Specials, Vice-Presidents, vote and proceed to the legislative process'. With regard to what Mr Janakopoulos said - and I can tell you that with sadness - there has been a 30-seven-page legislative improvement and, indeed, on very basic issues. I do not want to compare, but because you have made the comparison, that is why I am addressing you. In fact, it was a matter of serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u74	I didn't start the comparison. Do you want to see what you were doing in 2012-2014? Don't go into this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u75	Do you know when this legislative improvement came? At 12 o'clock we voted and came 23.59'. He didn't even get to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u76	The debate - and the views - on urgency, i.e. whether it is a permanent or temporary practice is over. Before giving the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr Papadopoulos, I would ask the Deputy Minister for Transport, Mr Kefaliannis, to announce to us some legislative improvements to the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked for the floor precisely to refer to legislative improvements so that they can be distributed to colleagues early and the rapporteurs can also be placed. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis submits, for the record, the above-mentioned legislative improvements:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 48-51]] [[CHANGES OF PAGE)IOANNIS KEFOLOGIANNIS (Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Transport): But before I refer, Mr President, to the legislative improvements you will allow me to make a very brief reference to what I have heard before and in terms of government, I would like to place myself because during the three years I have had the honour of being a parliamentary representative. And if one makes the comparison of the previous period with today, we will indeed admit that this is not a normality. We are, of course, committed that next time we will intervene and come back to normality with regard to the parliamentary procedure. You will probably allow me to paraphrase the well-known phrase that, at the moment, we are in the process of Parliament living a period of monsters, which fortunately the old one has died and the new one is being born at the moment. So the new, what we are creating, will indeed be a regularity.]] As far as legislative improvements are concerned, I should also like to mention the Minutes: In the third paragraph of Article 7 of the draft law, the number ‘2’ is replaced by ‘3’. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of the draft law, the date ‘1.1.2019’ is replaced by the following: ‘01.01.2019’. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of the draft law, the words ‘the Network or the System’ shall be added after the words ‘, which shall be defined as Base Charge’ – ‘XB’’. At the end of the second domestic subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of the draft law, the words ‘base charge’ (CB-based charge) shall be replaced by the words ‘on the Base Charge’. The words ‘and with effect from 01.01.2019’ shall be added in the third inner subparagraph of Article 7(3) of the draft law, immediately after the words ‘specified for the years 2019 and 2020’. In the sixth subparagraph of Article 7(3) of the draft law, the date ‘1.1.2019’ is replaced by the following: ‘01.01.2019’. In the sixth subparagraph of Article 7(3) of the draft law, ‘the term ‘applicable to consumers of low voltage households (CITs), to consumers of low voltage other users (CITs) and to categories of consumers defined by a decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy’ is deleted. in the sixth subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 7 of the draft law, immediately after the words ‘the fourth and fifth subparagraphs’, the words ‘, while from the year 2021 the basic duty (CB) is fixed by the RAE in accordance with and as laid down in the fourth and fifth subparagraphs’; In the seventh inner subparagraph of Article 7(3) of the draft law, that is to say, ‘In a similar decision, the terms and procedure for the revision of the basic debt in the years 2019 and 2020 shall be laid down, the clearance procedure for the debts shall be deleted from 01.01.2019 and any other details of its application.’. At the end of Article 7 of the draft law, paragraph 4 is added as follows: This Article shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.’ Also, in the case of (a) paragraph 2 of Article 10 of the draft law, the words ‘case c’ shall be replaced by ‘case d’. In case (b)(2) of Article 10 of the draft law, the words ‘case c’ shall be replaced by ‘case d’. Mr President, I would ask that this be distributed to colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u78	Good. I repeat the debate on what I told you about the speakers' times and how the debate will take place. I ask, as I have to say, whether this House agrees on the way in which the debate is being held?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u79	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u80	By a majority, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u81	Obviously by a majority. I call on the Step for the speech of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Michael Papadopoulos, for eight minutes of his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill which is really urgent. We've had an hour and a half to talk about it if it's urgent or if it's one or the other or it sounded "not to dare" by some, they haven't figured out where we are. The New Democracy dares and proceeds quickly, because that is what the Government of Mr Mitsotakis does, and that is what our ministers do. If that's annoying, you're knocking the wrong door. That is our role, that is what we promised in the run-up to the election. No Member of Parliament is excited about the urgent draft legislation, but it is not urgent when it is not urgent. This is urgent, and the reasons have been said. Today it is more than a hundred thousand fellow citizens who are waiting to give tests to get their license and not just to go for a ride with their car. A large majority are people who need their professional diploma, which means work. Competitions in the regions for the transport of pupils begin in ten days and there are loose ends. If this is not urgent, what is urgent? I will not go into the logic of the set-aside that has been heard about the urgent procedure. It doesn't make any sense. I can't get into that, because I'm not in SYRIZA's logic. Our logic is quite different from the logic you had for four and a half years, the disastrous logic for the country and for the citizens. You are responsible for waiting for these people to run tests to get their diplomas. Do you know why you're responsible? Because this law never worked. Why didn't it work? Because almost twenty-six regulatory decisions were not adopted. What does that mean to new colleagues? That the Minister for Transport did not sign the regulatory decisions for the law to function on the other hand shouts out why the law is changing. They've never been signed. What does that mean? Retardation, obstruction from the Ministry of Transport. In 2014, when I was honoured to be State Secretary for Transport, I had appointed a committee for this very matter, because it is well known to everyone - and no one disputes it - that there are corruption issues as they exist throughout society. This does not mean that they are the majority, but minority must be struck. This committee by institutional bodies and officials from the Ministry of Transport met and had almost completed its work. In 2015, the new leadership of the Ministry of Transport was completely indifferent to this committee and not only indifferent, but also indifferent to those involved, such as the Federation of Training Managers. Yesterday, in the committee debate, there was a strong tendency from the SYRIZA Members to hear bodies. Didn't they learn for four and a half years that there was no body hearing in the emergency bills? However, it was possible for the Ministry's political leadership to listen to the institutions and never to do so. So I got online and picked up applications from the Panhellenic Federation of Driving Teachers, who since 14 September 2018, since 19 September 2018, since 19 November 2018, from 10 January 2019, have been asking to meet and talk to the Ministry of Transport and this has never happened. On May 23, 2019, the law was passed, they ask why the law does not work. No answer from the Ministry. On 15 March 2019, on 16 March 2019. I would like to put these in the Minutes in order to inform the House and to understand that all these people were asking for consultation. [[At this point, the Member, Michalis Papadopoulos, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Yesterday you told us a hundred times why we don't call bodies, bodies you've never seen or when you've seen them, you've never accepted any of the things they asked for. So, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, don't say things that don't apply. Today you reap what you sow. That's what's happening today. So the New Democracy is coming by astonishing Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Kostas Karamanlis and Deputy State Secretary Giannis Kefaloyannis to do what? To solve a problem which is very essential to Greek society, to solve a problem which has troubled Greek society. What's he doing? Until this committee, which is set up, reach a conclusion after consultation with the parties, after consulting the parties, after consulting all those involved in driving schools, abolishes the law which did not work and did not work - I repeat - because you have not made the regulatory decisions for the law to work and gives an extension of six months plus three months to make a proper system of examinations. We all know the system of examinations has something to do with it. It would be a liar who said he doesn't know it, and we all want to solve it. The issue - to be honest - is even greater in the large centres such as Athens and Thessaloniki, and not in the regional departments of the Ministry of Transport or the regions. Can I tell you something else? You've made ongoing mistakes. You guys are the ones who made the felony of a felony. What's the matter with drivers' exams? The bribery. That's the point. You did, then, the bribery of a felony, come and shout, disagree. These are not urgent. Ladies and gentlemen, all the things I have to say are extremely urgent. I'll get in as long as I can, actually. So I told you that after the completion of the committee, which will have its conclusions in about six to seven months, the creation of a new law will proceed. Why can't the previous law work? [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Your tolerance for a while, Mr President. I'll go on with the articles later. Because it was impossible to find specially designed spaces in order to make special tests, such as backwards and parking. This is an absurdity. KOK forbids reversal, but the exams are backwards to the candidate driver. However, in the areas where this area was found it was not sufficient to examine all candidates, so the quality of the examinations would not be appropriate. To trouble citizens and to avoid any effective examination. A characteristic example is the site of the Cholargos KTEO. Every noon, he will see whoever goes through dozens of candidates waiting for their turn to be examined, when there is no strike and when the tests are carried out. Yesterday the former Minister said that it should not change the fact that the examiner has to have his licence. I would like to remind him, however, that this decision was taken by me in 2013 when I found that an employee of the Ministry of Transport was considering a candidate for a truck while he did not even have a licensed machine or car. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bill that solves problems. It speeds up the resolution of problems, what the Greek society needs today. So be sure that we dare. And don't move your hand to us so we don't dare do that. We're a different story and old ones. We shall dare all that is to the benefit of Greek citizens. We'll dare everything that's for the benefit of the country. This is our mission. That's what we're gonna do. Mr President, I will proceed with the articles later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u83	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Perka, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u84	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's my first place and I'd like to be very sympathetic and consensual, but I won't make it with what I hear and what's coming. The urgent procedure has been mentioned. I won't insist. We had too many violations, I'd say, in order of things. Nor was the Minister of Justice signed, and there were provisions referring to the Ministry of Justice. No public consultation, therefore, had taken place with the institutional speakers of the executive. I keep listening to this conversation about the hundred thousand. We ask you to bring us some data by regional unit from yesterday. If they start exams, how many are pending? The number of hundred thousand quoted in the papers cannot be heard in the House arbitraryly. I hope the Minister has the information we requested from yesterday. In any case, I will be very brief, because I will not have enough time for this whole bill. I am starting with the substance of the matter, because we have heard from the government that it dares. Let's see what he dares to do and what government he dares. The issue of driving licences is a very sensitive issue. Because it is at the same time touching on road safety and corruption. And what corruption? The one who wants three. Where the young people who are their first contact with the administration go out and make a paper, the diploma, and come in contact with corruption directly. And we all know that. There's no man in the room who doesn't know about it. Today we have even reached the point of knowing the price of this transaction. The corruption of consciences is sometimes more serious than the act itself. We are going to road safety, a subject that is also known in the Chamber. About a million people worldwide are killed every year. The Health Agency has registered our country - despite all the slight reduction we have had in recent years, for which we cannot be proud - in the eighth highest position. Suffice it to say that the first cause of death for young people up to 29 is this. The road accident. So science comes and says about the transport technique that the major factors of accidents are three: the first factor is infrastructure, roads, roads, geometric characteristics, maintenance, etc., which has improved considerably in our country, once again, from our government on roads, with the maintenance of the national network and, of course, is a constant presence. The second factor is the vehicle, which in recent years with technology, safety systems, too, has improved. And the third factor is the human, the driver. There are also studies that say that 95% of accidents involve the driver and 75% are the sole responsibility. And only this brief quote of evidence shows that a government must intervene in this very sensitive matter and intervene first with driving licences, because driving behaviour is a cultural issue and a first stage is the training of the candidates. That's exactly what our government and the Minister, Mr. Spirtzis, did. It caught up with this sensitive subject and dared to break circuits, such as those that came yesterday and presented to the committee. Informal advisers of the Minister, the Government, Chairmans of the Federation of Instructors? I don't know. It's left indiscreet. So you're coming today and what are you doing? Repeat this vicious, distorted, corrupt, we all admit, a system that thus comes out of driving licences for nine months. However, before I come to nine months, I would like to know what kind of provisions you are bringing down the law you are bringing. "The draw before the examinations on which the examiner will examine the candidate driver", i.e. there will not be the pair from before "visual audio media, cameras, microphones during the examination and real-time connection to the Ministry control centre, supervision and evaluation of examiners and instructors, absence of the instructor from the vehicle", that is to say, the only examinations that we give to them together with our teacher -, "Company of Transport Operators" and more. It is a product of very serious scientific work and it follows best international practices. Of course, there was not that preparedness in our country, as in many other matters. Also, there were no trails, but the runs are an international practice. But there are transitional provisions. Do we abolish the law? Let's give it more time. And finally, once local government and regions find space, make the necessary markings and the trails work. The system for the electronic recording of all results, the practical examinations, which essentially creates the profile of the factors involved in the examinations, examiners, instructors, drivers' schools where, based on the indications, priority may be given to tests showing extreme values from the statistical analysis and highlighting these points, it was not ready. And? Shouldn't we hurry to prepare it? Again there are transitional provisions. You are giving the wrong signal when you say that we will return even temporarily to the old system and abolish all these provisions, which, as I said, are best practices. It is a logic of 'wrapping'. I would point out once again that when a reform is serious, as I think it is, it goes beyond the average term of office of a government and a minister. But you are consciously ignoring this because you often do not want this reform. It's like the myth of Sisphus: it climbs the rock up to the top, it rolls back into the peninsula. The fact is, of course, that the historian of the future will record that every time the SYRIZA government dared to break circuits, clash with interests, there was an institution of slander, reactions, of course always with the courtesy of your friendly media. We did not expect this reform to be easy too. We did not expect it, and we said that our fellow citizens were afflicted by the fact that there was a problem. You know, it's very nice to hear in here "thousand thousand professionals." There was a problem, indeed. Why? Because there was the strike of the examiners - which was settled - and why there was an informal and insidious strike by the trainers and I bring it back to the debate and I ask for information to be seen in what regional sections this problem still exists and to what extent. So you're saying, even though you've been ready for a while, that you want nine months to bring back a committee to bring the law. And I tell you for sure and with scientific evidence that there is no way that this committee has the political mandate to place order on the matter not to reach the same conclusions: tracks, electronic recording, trainer outside the vehicle. That's what's going to end up with. If, however, the political mandate is 'Let us leave it as we know many years', Minister, I am sorry, but Mr Helios' presence yesterday has caused me this fear. I hope it won't be confirmed. If you are advised by the people who are alleged to be involved in circuits of fake driving diplomas, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u85	Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u86	Oh, good. Then all you will do if this committee works is to lose nine more months, go back, and now the exams are started, do all this again to do the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u87	Maximum nine months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u88	Well, all the issues have been settled and insurance products and the runs are slow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u89	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u90	Of course, slow down. There are transitional provisions. Listen to me. We are not abolished, 'head hurts, head cuts'. We're drinking, and that should be...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u91	That's what we're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Papadopoulos, you've lived with the Ministry. Those circuits didn't work in there? Always. Shouldn't we break them? We have to go nine months to get the committee back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u93	Four years you haven't done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u94	There's the law, you're abolishing it today. Well, I'm on my way to secondary medical committees. You know all the people involved that they never worked because there were no doctors. It didn't work. And I now come to specific issues with your tolerance, Mr President. Four-stroke motorcycles up to 125 cubic cubic metres, known as ‘pigs’, called ‘pigs’, because they are vehicles specifically designed to circulate in soil and mud. So, this is what you want to do on the streets? There are statistics on road accidents caused by these 'pigs' traffic on the islands, on the narrow roads, and there are many accidents on the road. In fact, it comes from some actors in Crete, where the President told you that he would arrange a road safety specialist. It is a great responsibility for the pigs to enter the streets. The one paradox that increased from EUR 10 to EUR 15 and was for the region has meanwhile gathered and is for road safety, trails, etc. What about this? I'm moving on to another issue, the 74-year-olds. We hear from yesterday that nowhere in the world, in Europe, this is not the case. I would first of all like to inform you that Australia and Denmark have tried and are now considering the results of the 74-year-old study on driving again. And, of course, there are programmes in Europe that aim to propose protocols for testing the ability to drive older people. Some tests were carried out and some 74-year-olds didn't pass the driving skill test. What about them? They're getting licenses and they're going out on the street? We'll take that law, take that responsibility? I'm sorry, but you're closing your eyes in a very corrupt system. You are giving the wrong message and I say for the last time, please step in, where there is a problem with patience, perhaps with some more arrangements, but no driver's licenses - "shipping", as Javert says, "not driving licenses, are arms licenses". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some time for the rest of the articles. As far as the vehicle registration fee is concerned, there is an issue of how this strengthens the market for less polluting passenger cars. There is one point that, in the oldest and the previous ones, according to standards, the same increase is being made, 50% is being made. Look at it a little is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u95	Mrs. Perka, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u96	All right, Mr. President. What should I start about EMEMAR? We heard the Minister responsible yesterday, who is constantly destroying PPC. They don't prove what they're saying. The damages are accountable. There are problems. We are waiting for strategic planning and, beyond the sale, we are also waiting for an increase in the electricity price. Today there is a reduction in EMCDDA. I only hope - because this is not our issue - that the RES reserve will not be bothered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u97	What's the financial damage?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u98	Accounting damages: I think Mr Famelos will be further expanded. Everything gets rough, fast and careless. We make a bill and then we start and we fix the urinals. So we give the mayor a majority of the Economic Commission with the bill. Now we come and give the Economic Commission the budgetary authority, the expenditure. He's on his way to the city council. He has nothing to do with it. It's the Economic Commission. You're doing great! Another very serious issue is these environmental issues, which each time a natural disaster occurs, we weep and we reap, which, in every suggestion - yours, I mean - there is the term 'environment' at least ten times and when you come to legislate, the environmental component goes for a walk. Solid Waste Management Body, FATS: The compensatory benefits for years now, because that is how they should, with the old provisions, be made available exclusively for environmental compensation from the operation of their installations. You are now coming to this bill in a little article and you say, no, it may be used for other costs of any. You're not describing. That's very photographic. As far as mergers are concerned, I think it is not applicable, because it does not even provide for a certification procedure, who finds these criteria. For distinguished athletes, we agree. It's a provision we've prepared for. However, I have also asked for information on how many unions and how many unions were involved, because the unions were not recognized. It's not the athletes' fault. Good. And one last thing, Article 18, which badly came the way it came. It also concerns the Ministry of Justice, which does not exist. Tail and this. Suddenly we took the penitentiary system, which existed in the Civil Protection under the doctrine of "law and order" and understood that legal jurisdiction, judiciary caretakers, juvenile caretakers, cannot be. So we bring it back, because the fund that is responsible for funding prisons and shops must also go to the Ministry of Civil Protection. These are the legislation you have brought, the 'junctions'. But above all, I insist that it is unacceptable - and this will be the case - that is what is done with the transport bill. Once a government went to put order on these circuits and you come and close their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u99	The rapporteur for KINAL, Christos Gokas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, do not falsify the party's title. The Change Movement, we've said it many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u101	The rapporteur for the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, this is a 'Movement Movement'. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the procedure for tabling this draft law, which we have described as unacceptable, we have already said enough. The aid, ladies and gentlemen, of the majority of the consultation you have included in the Final State Legislation, has been implemented in this bill rather than in the form of a thin medium-term review. We have in front of us a string of provisions - amendments - which I would describe as a multimodal - draft law, which by its very nature does not have a principle on which we might be able to place ourselves. That is why we are voting against at first reading, because there is no principle in this draft law, in which the principle of good legislation has been violated. It was an urgent matter and it was tabled without consultation. There was no organ hearing. There was no dialogue. Of course, there was a dialogue between the Ministry or the Ministries the day before yesterday, from what we learned. That is not an acceptable framework. We said we didn't agree at first. We have our reservations. We cannot have an integrated view. We will therefore see what provisions and under what conditions, after the end of the debate, we will be positive. With regard to the real serious issue of examinations for driving licences, we all see it, it is an overall problem. This very serious issue, however, has been a very strong initiative in the past few days on the government's legislative initiative in trying to convince it to be ready. It proved, however, - and it turns out - that in the area of road safety, which is an important aspect of driving licences and the other issues mentioned, the government is not at all ready. It's reintroducing an old bill. It abolishes what some of the provisions of Law 4599/2019 were passed, some of which you yourself voted on. I am talking about your resignation because some of the majority Members may not have been in the previous parliament. For example, the allowance to the examiners had voted for it, while you had voted three times in the past, you are bringing it to the vote today. We would therefore expect you to proceed by reducing the delays that exist, adding regulatory provisions or amending provisions that would come to be discussed in a normal procedure. And if this draft law on driving licences were passed on Monday or Tuesday, I don't think people would ruin or that we couldn't give an effective and effective solution. We could give it a better one. There is an extension, there are transitional provisions and possibilities for amendments. Instead of the middle solution, you went to the easy solution, disguising yourself in the preparedness to address the problems left by the previous SYRIZA - ANLE government. Because, in fact, for these hundreds of thousands of people who do not have driving licences today, there is a history of four years that has led to this result and we cannot ignore it or forget it. Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the real needs and conditions for candidate drivers must be taken into account and this framework should not be determined by unnecessarily or short-term parameters. So we are reintroducing an old system and we are generally recommending a committee. We do not know when it will produce results, whether it will actually be able to produce results within six months or six months. That is why we considered it to be wrong in the way that this procedure was introduced. At some point we need to walk in the way that leads us to convergence with the other European countries, with a modern design, which will also involve a modern framework of education, an infrastructure for the examinations, technology. Of course we have to do this, but not by returning to a system which has its own past. Because they have been brought back and many previous laws have been postponed on the SYRIZA - ANEL government and we have seen the results and where this situation has led. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I continue, ladies and gentlemen, on individual issues, such as safety that may exist from the movement of light and heavy four-wheeled vehicles and motorcycles. I think there has been a hasty decision in the previous period, which was indeed taken from what I learned without dialogue. So while we have had problems with the old system, we have problems with the present one. It seems that this measure failed because it was designed without rationalization. So now we have to look at this with more discussion and there should also be dialogue with local government and with those involved in this matter, because there are indeed these problems that have been mentioned in greater detail yesterday in committee since the movement of these vehicles. As regards the secondary medical committee, which was abolished by SYRIZA, there should be such a committee. It should, however, be institutionalised, be in hospitals with specialist doctors, who will also have a specific education, as is the case in Europe. There must be a specific training framework and rules for the examination of the elderly, so that they can provide the service they really have to provide to ensure that the possibilities of each individual examiner are safe. And, of course, we have to look at this issue, which concerns our fellow citizens, who are from some age and above, without intent on any case of discrimination. However, it is objectively necessary to see how better results can be obtained in order to enable these fellow citizens to drive and the right to drive, provided that the conditions exist, both from a medical point of view and on the basis of the possibility of handling the vehicle in circulation, but in accordance with the implementation of a more flexible design in the way all of this is considered for our fellow citizens. The secondary committee should in any event be rewarded according to the services it provides. And that is a serious issue that needs to be considered when these decisions are made. The other articles deal with issues relating to the provisions of the Ministry of Interior. In order to correct the problems created by the abortion of "KLITHENI" or the problems arising under the new problem law of Mr. Theodorikos, we are going to a way of legislating again hasty, clipping again. And, of course, the points that our prolongation had made during the debate on the recent law on local government, are ultimately appropriate and justified in terms of timely and targeted interventions, but also in terms of the characterisation of legislation as a clipboard. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I would like to point out a few things in addition to some articles - you will please give me, Mr President, next year - and some other articles will be placed on our side to deal with a number of issues in particular. In Article 1 of the bill under discussion, provision is made for an examiner. Two examiners should be provided, because it is the right thing to do for all concerned. The examination time should relate to all days and for as long as necessary outside the working time, in order to dismantle the outstanding as well as to compensate for the examiners as they need and with greater reasonable remuneration even for the period of this six-month period until the decomposition and the introduction of the new framework. In Article 2, which is an admission of indifference, as we have said, we are proposing that the committee set up to be composed, among other things, of the Ministry's service actors who have experience, of regional agencies having different experiences, but also of participating or consulting stakeholders, such as examiners, trainers, etc. I have been mentioned in Article 4. In Article 6, there is one issue we must be careful about, because we risk finding ourselves in a more unfavourable process for new passenger cars and therefore a burden on registration fees which also affect traffic charges, since according to the new emission standards, this burden arises. In order to reduce EMFF in PPC's accounts, there should be an assurance that the reduction for the coming years will not cause a problem for increased penetration of RES, as envisaged by the National Energy and Climate Plan, which you want to make even more ambitious. In Articles 8 and 9 there are extensions of extensions. They are, of course, dealing with practical issues, but at some point they must be closed. In Article 13 and in relation to the compensatory benefits of the FVC, there is a risk in practice that we will have free management of the relevant funds. Our position is that these should indeed be made available to environmental compensation projects and actions. After all, there are too many issues in all the regions, in all the municipalities. In Article 15 every year - I mean for school-leaving services - an article is passed in derogating from the provisions on public procurement. However, the relevant ministries or ministries are required to take initiatives to resolve this issue definitively. In Article 16 we have reservations, since the rules have been changed, and there are already results of pan-Hellenic examinations, even though there is a logic in the matter of incentives. However, it is a matter that needs to be considered and updated as a whole, since it supports school sport. However, this article is a fragmentary approach. In Article 17, the provision makes sense. It seems to serve the effective functioning of the PSC, but beyond that I think there should be other incentives to upgrade the institution's prestige, but also a prospect of electing its organs, you should clarify exactly what changes and repeals this provision in relation to the previous one, because they seem to be completely irrelevant among them. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Finally, I believe that Article 18 will be mentioned by another speaker on our side. I shall end by saying this: we have an attempt to resolve the problems created by the hasty legislative procedure by transferring responsibilities from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, and it seems that here too, our reservations and doubts about this procedure are also justified. Madam President, I would like to close by giving us the opportunity and the reason to put on the amendments which started to come before I went to the Step and of course I did not have time to look at them. We should be given the floor to put the amendments on the basis of the substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President. The arguments put forward by the urgent procedure are, in principle, unequivocal. What are you doing with this process? Restrict even the possibility of knowing the content, reaction, expression of opinion and demanding changes from the parties and, of course, from the relevant bodies. They are choices that will not stop being exploited to meet corporate grouping requirements, support mechanisms for the system and other commitments. The selective invitation - because it was not, Minister - to the committee during the debate confirms our claim to the bill we are debating today, especially for the arrangements of the Ministry of Transport. What was the argument? Thousands of candidate drivers, you say, cannot complete the examination and testing process due to the problems arising from the arrangements of the previous law. You present a picture of fake, that no driving tests are being carried out today, and you come to solve the issue with urgent procedures. Examinations take place in most of the country. The seventy-four regional sections of the country are not for various reasons, because there are no examiners, because the appropriate areas in less than ten regional units have not been ensured. However, this fake picture you are projecting in order to justify the erroneous procedures you choose shows that the return to the old, perforated exam system that you have been supporting years of PASOK and New Democracy is not at all transitional. Anyway, one week of processing and consultation is the problem? The bill is not just about transport but also about eight other ministries and now, with the five amendments, the ministries, which are in this bill, became eleven - twelve. The first part of the five articles in the bill relates to the Ministry of Transport. The draft law shall repeal twelve articles, including the penalties provided for in Article 9 for the conduct of a criminal offence when conducting a theoretical examination of the candidates for or tests of qualifications and behaviour by the persons involved. What do we have to talk about? It's a demeanor. Everyone is talking about the poor, perforated and anachronistic legal framework in the matter of driving tests that the people have paid for several years and above all, does not guarantee road safety. It is an abscess that does not break, which is maintained and increases in a fully privatised model with superb amounts paid by each candidate driver for the right to obtain a licence, to extend it, to renew it. Transparency and corruption are intertwined with this system that creates the objective basis for creating and strengthening. In the mechanism of theoretical examinations and tests of qualifications and behaviour of candidates for drivers and drivers, no matter what standards incorporated in its operation, opacity was dominated, with a downgrading of road behaviour as a whole, with a decisive effect on road safety. We are talking about a mechanism that predominates the customer relationship, especially the fastest, and not the essential training for the acquisition of the necessary skills and the objective examination of the skills acquired. Unfortunately, this whole situation is tragically reflected in road accidents. Every year around the world, according to data, over a million two hundred and fifty thousand people are losing their lives in road conflicts and millions more are injured. Our country is a champion in the loss of lives from road accidents. In Greece, from 2010 until the end of 2017, according to data, we had ninety-four thousand seventy-seven traffic accidents with seven thousand forty-three dead, nine thousand-five-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, five-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three thousand-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-things, and seventy-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. 58% of the caravans are made in Attica with 27.8% of the deaths. While there is a clear need for changes in the system in order to ensure transparent implementation of the examination work and its contribution to road safety, the New Democracy Government, on the pretext of the problems in the process of testing candidates' qualifications and conduct of drivers and drivers created by the law of SYRIZA, reverts to the institutional framework before the adoption of these provisions, which you have all complained about. Of course, the law of SYRIZA was not a solution, because many of the aspects that we had raised during the vote were an obstacle to carrying out the examinations. That is why we hadn't agreed. The New Democracy's choice to restore the old institutional framework that everyone agrees is perforated, we think it will not be a temporary solution. The claim that after a maximum of six or nine months, the committee being set up will result in a proposal to reform the framework for the training and examination of candidates is a pretext for maintaining the same mechanism. We understand that there are serious problems. Several candidate drivers and professionals who want to extend the driving licence are afflicted and served at a very slow pace. But returning to the old system is not a solution. The problems remain, such as dealing with the educational process in the driving sector as a commodity, the choice to increase reciprocity, the maintenance of perforated and opaque procedures, the subsistence of the services of the transport directorates of the regions, as in other sectors of the public sector, which your normality will continue to do, but also the general treatment of people's living and working conditions as issues that are subject to profitability in all areas. Article 3 provides for the setting up of secondary medical committees responsible for examining licence holders who have completed the age of eighty and wishing to renew it and for examining candidates for drivers or drivers. We do not disagree with the abolition of examinations for the renewal of the old age leave. We also supported in our previous legislation our position that for the renewal of a driving licence for the elderly, their evaluation, i.e. the ability to drive primarily with medical data, and not with the practical driving examination. Medical data should be linked, not only to the results of ophthalmologist and pathologist examinations, which exist and are to date, but also to the identification of cognitive functions, that is, if it has Alzheimer's speed of reflexes, that is to say with an integrated and thorough medical control of both neurologist and ORL, etc. Such an arrangement will be able to deal with the matter. Medical examinations must be carried out without paradoxical, but free of charge from public hospitals. You, like SYRIZA with some minor differences, do not treat older and older drivers on this basis, in the logic of preventing health problems and free retraining, but in fact as a source of revenue. It is provided for by Article 3 by the driver in the secondary medical committee three times as much as those laid down as a minimum remuneration for doctors who are engaged in the public service. You are abolishing the universal ban on the movement of quadricycles, pigs as they say, with which we agree. We disagreed with this in the previous legislation. In conclusion, for these articles, we have to say that we do not accept the return to a perforated driving test system, which does not serve road safety and safe traffic, with respect to the interested parties, which does not guarantee transparency at all stages of the procedure, public examination trails, decent working conditions for examiners and trainers, staffing the services, public and free education and training of examiners and drivers. In the bill there are other articles of the Ministries, as we have said before. The regulation in Article 7 brings reductions in the specific emission reduction charge for pollutants. The Government argues that with it it balances the increases in PPC's tariffs. This claim is misleading, as the increases announced yesterday in committee by the Minister are significant, are large, they concern all the local households. It will be a fire of up to 20% as the first dose of PPC's anti-Half Rescue Package. It transfers the consequences of the liberalisation of the electricity market to people's backs. The "complex" includes a wide range of measures, such as redundancies of workers and closure of lignite plants. It is a serious account of the liberalisation of electricity for the people's layers. This European Union strategy, which has been faithfully served by all governments to date, leads to huge profits for monopolistic groups at the expense of the people's right to meet their energy needs. The people find it difficult, many are unable to pay back the expensive bills, energy poverty is spreading. The workers and the populace, not only, have nothing to expect of these plans, but we call on the working people's movement to deal with and conflict with the government's plan as a JRC. The Government, by Article 10, shall prioritise and extend the arsenal by means of resolute arrangements for the exploitation of municipal property. With Article 13 and the regulations for the FOSDA, it is causing the people of Attica and especially those who live in the cities near the dump. It enables municipalities hosting FODs to legally channel whatever compensation is made for the environment to take advantage of them in integration and redemption operations. These amounts come directly from the pocket of Attica's people's households. The Mayor of Race is behind this arrangement. The exchanges for its agreement on the extension of the land operation, and so far it has managed such amounts as compensatory amounts and we are right to say, did not save him neither the environment nor the town's debts, which are unthinkable. In a co-operation between SYRIZA and the New Democracy with the mayor, you agreed on the extension of the Ghost dump. The people have the floor with the organization of their struggle and their determination to be able to impose the right to life they deserve. The request for the dump to be closed now should take greater proportions in the area. With the same procedures, in a co-operative New Democracy and SYRIZA, you are moving forward with the implementation of anti-population policy. This is what you are planning under the trade union law, and you are seeking to implement all the anti-territorial laws, old and new. Workers with the existing trade union law through mass procedures are struggling under difficult conditions, under employers' and state terrorism for the bread of their children. You don't want that. You, with 39% - a minority of the people - are condemning the vast majority of workers and the people in poverty and impoverishment with your anti-American policy. You are struggling with the employers, who are struggling to improve the conditions for pay and work. We're telling you that the workers and the people haven't said the last word. The movement, sooner or later, will overthrow anti-grass policy. As a JRC, we try not to delay this. With the innovatory action of the Communists in the labour movement, we are opening a road, we are organizing along with every honest fighter the fight, to prevent, to make it difficult for your anti-government policy. The mass participation of workers at the trade unions' rally, assembled at the FAME on September 7th in Thessaloniki, will claim modern terms of work, life with rights. We are voting 'in principle' and in the vote we will take a position on the articles and amendments you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I just want to remind you to keep your time while you can. Tolerance will always exist, but not to delay the process too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u107	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u108	I would now like to apologise to the rapporteurs of the Greek Solution and of Mera25, Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Janakopoulos who have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, on Articles 87 and 88. I will only give you the floor for two minutes to continue the process. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, because after the time being - I would say - we had a debate at the outset on the bill and procedures there was a clear violation of Rule 87 and 88 by the Government, in particular paragraph 1 and Article 87(2). The second paragraph expressly states that the amendments are tabled at a specific time before the debate on the draft law in plenary. Since someone will say that the bill is urgent, we should also go to Article 88, to which he refers - in particular the third paragraph - that the amendments should relate to the main object of the bill or of the proposal for a law. And paragraph 6 states that the amendments are printed and distributed to Members before the start of the debate on the respective draft or draft law. It is therefore a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but also of the debate that we had before the start of the bill for an effort, which must be done, to ensure that there are no diversions. As there is a substance in the case, I must say that in the amendment specifically concerning the deletion of qualifications for the appointment of the Director of the NRA, where the provision providing for a university degree or corresponding to foreign and administrative experience is abolished, the Government comes to say 'or a degree or even 10 years of professional experience'. As far as the procedure is concerned, therefore, the government today is completely exposed. We are neither prepared to tolerate this process nor the political choices which come to give the wrong signal to society: 'We put our own legislation, it is sufficient to adapt their qualifications to the law, it is sufficient to adapt the law to qualifications and not to adapt the choices of people to what is required, to the rules, to the procedures and to the level required by each position'. We call on Mr Gerapetti - who is present in the Chamber - and Mr Karamanlis - who is the prime minister for the bill - to get this amendment back, to ask the Prime Minister to get this option back and then come and discuss the bill. If you do not do so, we in the debate on such an amendment - or such amendments - will not take part and not just. We'll see your moods. We invite you to be placed and then we will be permanently placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, thank you very much. I have said in this Chamber that the main is not procedural formalism. The main thing is not the process, but the essence. Apart from the fact that Articles 87 and 88 of the Rules of Procedure are actually being violated, the main point is that, on the initiative of Mr Gerapetititi, and also of the Minister for Civil Protection, we have a scandalous amendment before us. We have pointed this out to you, Mr Ministers, since the first time that the appointment of the EUPM commander, without having the titles required by the law, is illegal. With the amendment, which you are bringing here today, you admit that you have blown the functioning of the NRA from the day of the appointment of this gentleman until today and possibly in the future, because the constitutionality of this amendment will also be judged and safeguarded legally. It's disgraceful, it's disgraceful. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is unacceptable that Mr Mitsotakis had said in this Chamber when he was provoked by Mr Tsipras to answer whether the commander of the NRA has the qualifications required to appoint, that he owns them and that he will not make any change to the law, so that he can retroactively legitimise this unacceptable choice. You're very exposed, you're very responsible for everything you've caused this month and for what's going to be provoked in the NSA. We have told you from the outset that we have no desire to make the security issues in the country a central opposition issue. But you do this type of smuggling, this type of law violations, this type of forced choices. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I wonder here: Who is forcing you, Mr. Gerapeitris, to be humiliated in this way by retrospectively legitimising a gentleman as commander of the NSA and not making another choice that could meet the criteria of the law? Why do you also degrade the National Information Service, but much more the Greek Government in the eyes of the entire international community? You are responsible and you are directly required to withdraw this amendment, not to be humiliated, as a government and you as Minister, Mr Gerapititi, but to avoid humiliating the country internationally, in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u112	We interrupted the flow of the rapporteurs. I understand that there were requests under Rules 87 and 88 of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Manolakou, have you also asked for the floor, on the basis of the same Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u113	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u114	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u115	Of course, the specific articles of the Rules of Procedure are being violated. It is provocative for this reason: most of the amendments are neither urgent nor urgent. They correct majorities, particularly in committees, in order to have governmental sovereignty. Also challenging is the provision concerning the commander of the NSA. It's a photographic layout, like previous ones. We want to remind ourselves that the Prime Minister, in response to the criticism that had been made at the time, was committed to not accepting or promoting any change in the institutional framework. But here's where he's disgusting. In this sense, we insist that all the amendments be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u116	Mr Lebanese has asked for the floor on behalf of the New Democracy, on the basis of the same Rules of Procedure as the previous Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, that is what the Rules of Procedure say, but the regular functioning of the House tells us in minutes. There is a given, which has been followed over the past few years. So, I think - the House, of course, and its President will decide - our previous experience leads us to understand that this function is to be tolerated. Now, for the relevance you said before, Mr Kegeroglu, the urgency will be judged by the House. As far as this amendment is concerned, we think it is a good idea to change the amendment, because... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u118	Why shouldn't I laugh? You're being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u119	Why are you laughing? Don't laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Levane!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u121	When people say jokes, the other world laughs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Levane, laughter is health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u123	I'm glad for your sense of humor. Laughing is health too. But I honestly can't understand why you should laugh when we split, say, the universities of foreign land.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u124	Random!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u125	You referred to a matter of retrospectiveness. There's no question of retrospectiveness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u126	So it's illegal to appoint! Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u127	What assignment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Commander of S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u129	Is it done? So we say that we think that this provision is in the right direction. We believe that the essentials for a PSC commander are his administrative qualifications, his operational capacity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u130	And why did you say you wouldn't change the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u131	It will be judged by the outcome of the course it will have in this post. We also believe that it is unacceptable on the part of Officerial Response, as it had never been made by the New Democracy in the past, as has never been done by the PASOK, to enter national security issues and, in particular, with such an immoral look within Parliament. We're sorry about that. We believe that you are escaping in the same way as you are escaping other issues. Because you simply have no political strategy, you have no arguments about the effort made by the government to reorder the country and the economy, to put a class in this mess you inherited us. We insist on administrative capacities, especially in this position and in the context of changes in the structure of the NSD with the three sub-governments and the operational responsibilities of each. I think that you are at least too much and we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr Levane. So we go into the flow of the rapporteurs we interrupted...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, will the government insist on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u134	Does the government insist?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u135	Once the rapporteurs, who are two more, will be given the floor by the ministers for the amendments they have put forward and will answer these questions. Mr. Villardo, please have the floor as the rapporteur for the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we agree with my colleagues on the oral amendments, especially the last one. We have all heard the mass protests of all parties in general about the process. It has now become self-sufficient to denounce the government by saying that the bills under the urgency procedure that it lays down are the rule and not the exception. However, today has exceeded every previous one, after being filed on Wednesday at 11.00 a.m., when we were notified - those who opened their e-mail - that they would be discussed the next day at 10.00 a.m. What seemed to us - having been informed by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament that, when it came, it would only concern the Road Traffic Code - was that it included much more. This was a multiplier draft which recommends that amendments be drawn up in substance. It is about a series of ministries such as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Sports, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Interior. As it was, of course, we denounced the procedure as unacceptable and asked for the bill not only to be withdrawn in the urgency but also to be withdrawn in the wrong information we had from the Conference of Presidents. In addition, there was a lack of the necessary signature of the Minister of Justice, while an informal counsellor of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, as he called him, was present at the committee, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Educational Drivers Mr. Heliadis, probably irregular. As we understand it, there were pretexts for those who wait for driving licences to pass a number of amendments by the government. Because he promised us that he would not do it again, he invented another way, obviously all of this in his "decide and order" that the Prime Minister has inaugurated with his final state. I would like to say the following in the most important articles. Article 1: New compensation for examiners. The report from the General Accounting Office of the State shows a burden on the State budget of around EUR 3 million from the monthly compensation of examiners of EUR 250 from EUR 1 to EUR 240 for 240 today, and will be granted for five instead of six participations in the practical examination. We believe that this article should be particularly careful by the government. Article 2: Reintroduce to the previous theoretical examination, qualification and behaviour status of candidates for nine months until a special committee set up on this subject will propose a new framework in line with European Union standards. In our view, the nine-month period for the proper completion of the procedure is not effective, so it would be better if the government were to think about it so that mistakes could not be made again. Article 3: Recommendation of Secondary Medical Committees, which had been repealed and reactivated. Expenditure is estimated at EUR 1.3 million, and there will be an additional loss of EUR 1.5 million from the abolition of the mandatory driver review over 74 years. According to the Minister, the above costs will be covered by the revenues that the public does not have due to delays in issuing diplomas, but obviously one has nothing to do with the other. In our view, there is no reason to charge the public at the cost of another committee, since this work can be done by public hospitals or private medical services, except that it can help create customer relations between drivers' schools and their management. Article 7: Reduction of EMFF in PPC's electricity accounts to specific categories of consumers. In this respect, the following: First, the entry in the specific customer category register of the beneficiaries of a reduced fee of EMFF has not been preceded by the registration in accordance with the decision of the European Commission. In particular, the criteria for each category of consumers in our national legislative system have not been established. Secondly, the article refers to decreases in the EMCDDA to low-voltage consumers, where it does not sub-classify low-voltage consumers. In simple terms, it incorporates domestic and commercial consumers into the same category. In other words, it identifies the energy needs of a single household, for example, with those of a department store. Thirdly, it does not take into account any social criteria such as sensitive groups or unemployed groups to reduce EMCDDA nor the prevailing climatic conditions per climate area of the country. In other words, it considers that the needs for cooling and thus for power consumption during the summer months in areas of the First Climate Zone, namely southern Greece, are the same as the Second Climate Zone, namely Northern Greece. Fourthly, with the alleged reduction in EMFF by 25%, as announced by the Minister of Energy and the corresponding reduction in VAT from 13% to 6% by the previous government, as well as with the reduction of the discount rate from 10% to 5% in PPC's accounts for consistent consumers, it considers that the consumer will not be charged with the new increase in the PPC tariff. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are presenting in the Minutes a calculation table showing that the next period of electricity consumption in total will be 8%-10%. I'm filing him for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fifthly, in addition to this bill, it does not mention what will happen with average-voltage consumers, with energy buildings such as industries, hospitals, hotels, etc. and, of course, with the farmers. So you continue not to attach any importance to primary production, which should be a key pillar of the Greek economy. It seems clear that this article, due to the pressure of time and the commitments made by the European Union, has been written out manually, so they will normally be followed as subsequent ministerial decisions. Customity seems more generally at PPC, as the governments in the last few decades do not want to understand that its problems are due solely to its always bad management, which consumers have to pay with increases. Thus, it has become costing the Stock Exchange around EUR 650 million, when only its fixed assets exceed EUR 14 billion. As if not all of this were enough, the government wants to sell its most valuable assets, the networks of IPTO and TEDO, claiming that SYRIZA sold part of IPTO and DESFA, so it is entitled to sell the rest along with the Greek Petroleum and the PPC. In other words, Greece will remain without any energy companies, especially when it has energy reserves and will pass through energy pipelines. If that's not a crime, then we don't know what else it could be. However, we wonder if, apart from selling, the government has any other recipe for the development of the country. Continuing, Article 10 resolutely regulates OTA issues, despite the fact that less than a month before a corresponding draft law was submitted. This substantiates the unbelievable manipulation of the government. Likewise, in Article 13, which concerns Solid Waste Management Boilers, it does not refer to which areas the proposed regulation will apply or to whom it will be controlled. In this law, the government expresses its full environmental indifference. Without setting up any control mechanism, it leaves it to the municipalities - who are majority members of the New Democracy - to manage the compensatory measures properly and not for the benefit of the citizens or for the recovery of the environment, with what this entails. This is another gift to the chosen mayors of the New Democracy which, unfortunately, will be literally fatal to the citizens. Article 14 also deals with issues relating to TDs and gives even greater power to the Economic Committees, with the unacceptable deprivation of the rights of the boards of directors. Finally, Article 16 entitles non-legislative practices to be applied to date, such as the possibility of discrimination which leads to more molecules for the introduction to higher education institutions. This possibility is even given to clubs without special athletic recognition, so it could be a photographic layout, such as several others in the bill. In conclusion, I would like to say that there are many additional arrangements in the draft law which fully justify its designation as a multi-legislative bill or a string of mass amendments. It really is a sad event for a party that was supposed to have been taught by its huge mistakes in the past, as are surely the vicious twin deficits and the country's overcompensation in 2009, as well as the signature of the criminal PSI in 2012, with which Greece lost its national sovereignty and mortgaged everything for absolutely no reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis from the party of Mera25, who has the floor for eight minutes, is called in Stepma. He's the last of the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing with regard to Parliament's procedures is shocking and the government is embarrassing not only Greek society but also its own Members. It is also clear from the committee where all these procedures have been discussed, but also from here on the difficulty of the Members of the New Democracy being placed and defending these unauthorised ones. There are four bills in the urgent procedure, four bills without consultation, four bills without time for the MPs to process them in practice. As my colleagues have said, at 23.00 a.m. the night came the bill to be discussed in a committee the other morning. But what is making this bill urgent? I fear that his 'photographic' provisions make it. You give hotels the right to build, get environmental license in hay and forest, pending the ratification of forest maps and the definition of saint. Who asked for this amendment? Tell us! Looks like he's got a name. Are they not created in terms of forest maps? When companies take these permits, hotels, and will not change the final result of forest maps, what are you going to do? Will you bring new provisions to correct by buying fines - or I don't know what else - the forest maps? Another provision: the right of municipalities to use compensatory funding for hosting disposal and waste management sites, not for environmental upgrading, as provided for by the law, but for whatever they want. This is where we know the names. It had been requested by the Mayor of Gender in the CEDEFOP a few days ago. And why are you doing this? In order not to protest against the illegal extension of the Gender HITA to its already saturated facilities, something that Mrs Durou has of course proposed, but, as you agree, you agree with the planned uncontrolled burning of the garbage that you are preparing. Society's reacting. And you saw that, and those of you who went to yesterday's vow of the District Commissioner, Mr. Patoulis. At the same time you deprive the neighbouring municipalities of this funding, as if and when the Race is downgraded, Petroupoli is not affected, Illion is not affected, the Saints Anargyroes are not affected. I am talking about Petroupoli because there is another extension being prepared on the basis of Mrs Durou's last decision. Your "photographic" provisions relate to specific athletes and regions that did not complete the school bus notices in time. Tell us what these regions are. Shouldn't we know? Everything in your bill seems to have a name. For these reasons, in private interests and in particular people, every procedure of Parliament is being violated. What was decided at the Conference of Presidents was that a draft transport legislation should be introduced in the urgent procedure. Finally, a bill differently came, a bill that has issues of the Ministries of Finance, the Protection of Citizens, Education, Health, Environment, Interior, Tourism, Culture, Justice and Signed by these Ministers. Another decision was taken, another one adopted and another one came. Why did that happen? Because the government defines the procedures in this Parliament, because the Rules of Procedure of the House are ultimately advisory. It is optional to implement it in practice. As if that were not enough, the signature of the Minister of Justice was missing from the bill. After a lot of discussion and a fuss in the committee, after many hours of discussion, these provisions were withdrawn to come as a late amendment today. But let's see what the original transport bill provided for. We have a system of examinations for driving licences recorded in society as corrupt. We also know the prices that citizens pay. The SYRIZA government has brought changes that are moving in the right direction with obvious clutch in preparing for implementation. But you did what you do on all matters. Instead of improving the bill where the problem exists, you come to abolish it and come back to the previous "sin" situation. It was socially acceptable, of course, that it was a corruption situation. You're telling us it's 105,000 citizens, young people and young people waiting to get driving licences. These people in the nine months that you give until the law has changed again, as you have announced, will be led to this corruption system in order to get their diplomas out. With this pressure, as you tell us, for the 105,000 people what will happen? Will corruption increase or not? Don't you know that corruption is going to multiply even in relation to the old system? Do you know it and allow it? This sloppy extension, in fact, did it take a month and a half to prepare itself? Since you were not in a hurry for a month and a half to testify to this simple abolition in practice, why is this bill urgent? Because you've been late for a month and a half? Now you are also bringing us the delayed amendments. That's not just the Rules of Procedure. That's what Parliament's services say. We have from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food an amendment that is late. It's writing it up - up. We have an amendment from the Ministry of Shipping. Late, he writes it up - up. We have an amendment from the Ministry of Health. In the short term, the services of this House are writing it. We've got from the Citizen's Department. Late. Of course, it is also the terrible amendment to the NSA. Late. But what does it matter if the services of this House are written, since the regulations in this Parliament are not respected? As far as the amendment to the NSA is concerned, it is a shocking one. You've hidden his CV for many days. Revealed why you hid it. You hid it because it just doesn't have a degree recognized by this man. You are now coming back to legalize the illegal, that someone can be a commander of the NSA without a university degree. Eventually the perfect ones and the laws are for others! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You are calling for parliamentary procedures. Mera25 will be up against your efforts. We're not going to vote on this bill. We shall remain in this Chamber to denounce this violation of the Rules of Procedure of the House, this disgracefulness of Parliament. It will also depend on the procedure with the amendment of the EEA Agreement. We will remain to defend the social interest and democracy. But everything will have a limit. I would ask you to withdraw the amendment to the NSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u139	With the speech by Mr Arsenis, who has kept his time in many respects, and we thank him, the circle of special speakers is closed on the part of the parties. I would then ask the five ministers who have brought the five amendments to the floor. The acceding Minister, Mr Karamanlis, will then be placed on the acceptance of the amendments or not. Then we'll enter the first circle of speakers. Please take the floor for the amendment by Mr Eleftherios Economou, State Secretary for Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed amendment number 35 and special 5, paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 are added to Article 18 of the draft law entitled ‘Confidentiality of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions’, which are as follows: The proposed regulation adds paragraph 5 to Article 10 of Decree-Law 1017/71, according to which the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Civil Protection will receive 20% of the annual financial resources of the FIFG. In other words, the financing of part of the operation of the penitentiary stores continues, as has been the case so far, and this ensures the smooth functioning of the prisons. It is a provision that is necessary and urgent in order to continue the operation of prisons and to ensure that immediate needs are met. The provision is also designed to provide 31-12-2019 administrative support from the Ministry of Justice to the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy in order to give the necessary time and to make a smooth adjustment to the new structure of the Ministry of Public Order, where it is transferred. At the same time, the General Secretariat of Crime Policy is recommended, the Directorate-General for Economic Services and Administrative Support, with three Directors: An Economic Management, a Supplies and a Human Resources and Administrative Support. Also, in the General Secretariat of the Anti-Fraud Policy, a Directorate-General is set up for the Management of Booking and Management of Crisis Stores, with two Directorates: A Booking Shop Management and a Crisis Management, in order to ensure the fullest and best functioning of detention stores and the General Secretariat, which will coordinate this whole project, but at the same time, in terms of the operational part, can be better coordinated, since, as you all know, the problems within prisons in terms of order, security and safeguarding the rights of detainees as well as penitentiary officials, are intensified and require immediate solutions in order to ensure fairness and well-being within the prison area. It is necessary, of course, to ensure the smooth functioning of the Scientific Council, which has so far been eleven. As you know, the provision of the services of the members of the Scientific Council is unpaid. As eleven who were, it was practically difficult to function, since it was very difficult to form. So now she's trying to be five-member. This ensures that it is well established and can be recommended, that it operates effectively, so that we can implement a penitentiary policy in our country, which responds to our own culture, but at the same time harmonise ourselves, at last, with the suggestions of both the Council of Europe and the international organisations. I would also like to make a brief reference to the proposed amendment with a general number of 34 and a specialist number 4, which concerns the National Information Service. As you are aware, there is an attempt to have an institutional service for the first time on the part of its cooperation, both externally and internally. The dangers for the country are known, they are visible. The challenges in both the international and internal environments are great, existential. The Information Service is now required both in its cooperation with foreign institutions and internal bodies, to have transparency and an institutional character. This is a very important provision. For the first time, the restoration, I would say, of the prestige of the service and its functioning in an institutional way is being attempted. At the same time, we are trying to create through the final office of his commander and the sub-government, which is re-established, a better function, so that the commander and the sub-government can also have the necessary secretarial support, with the individual provisions which are regulated. Finally, with regard to the issue of the competences of the commander, a great deal of importance is attached to the professional formation and essentially to ensuring all those necessary criteria, so that the work of the commander of the service is effective. I would like to make a reminder at this point. So far, at least, it has never been exercised by any party in this House, I would say, a criticism of the issue of the administrations of the National Intelligence Service in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u141	You're welcome. You'll talk. Then you'll take the floor. The Minister must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u142	At this point I would like to make an appeal: it is good for national issues, for security and for the risks that we face both from the external and internal threats, for restraint to be given to the micro-group approach of these victims and to micro-policy. The dangers are real, they are great, and I think that in terms of safety - especially for these risks - we can all have the necessary consensus and approach on all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u143	I would ask Mr Vorides to take the floor on the amendment, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are hearing various paradoxes in this Chamber. And I'm saying paradoxical, because, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Janakopoulos, you've been in the Chamber for a while. Right? You have not been elected recently, so you are aware of the practice of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u145	I'm recently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u146	You know that, on a number of occasions, this House has expressed its opinion on the issues and the wording and relevance of the amendments. And we're going a little bit. But there is, in principle, your objection. That's what you said. You raised a point of order and said that there was a violation of Articles 87 and 88. That's what you said, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u147	Not just that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u148	We'll go to the others, Mr. Bored. One, one, finish it. Let's go to Articles 87 and 88. What does Article 87 say? It says that in order for the amendment to be in time, its statement must be made three days ago. And what does Article 88 refer to? It states that there must be relevance to the general topic of the subject. Yes, sir. On the main, the issue of voting and supposedly surprise, I would remind you that we are discussing urgent legislation. When the bill was lodged yesterday, how can it be observed on the three-day day? So, obviously, it has been well interpreted on several occasions by this House that, when we discuss urgent matters, it makes no sense to respect the three-day, not once, many times. Mr. Janakopoulos, I see you strong. You've never done that! Isn't that right? Your government's late amendment and irrelevant has not brought to bills. This has not happened to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u150	But let's go to the big one. What's important? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't be in a hurry. What's your hurry? I don't want stress. Calm down and sobering and I'll see you around. What has the Council of State said on several occasions? These questions of Articles 87 and 88 are unregulated judicial matters and are judged to be interna corporations of this House. What does the Council say? It says that we here in Parliament dominately have the opportunity to decide on them. Why does the Council say that? Because he wants to go to the point. So what? To let us judge whether there is a matter of urgency, if there is indeed an essential need to regulate a question of criticality. And he wants to leave this in Parliament's domination. Is that so? It is. So instead of going to the substance of the matter now and saying 'we disagree, because the regulation is not urgent, or (a) and should not be introduced because it is not urgent', you put on a general topic, which is not a problem. I come to my point, to explain the urgency of my amendment. My amendment is the incorporation of an amendment to a Community directive which has a deadline for transposition on 30 August. After that date, there is a question of sanctions for the country. Will the House agree that urgency is justified in order to avoid sanctions? Will the House agree, therefore, that by incorporating this directive, we are doing our job well, and this directive should have been incorporated far before, from others who had years in their hands and did not incorporate it, and now we are being blamed, why are we following this accelerated procedure to keep a deadline that could have been observed? So, as far as urgent is concerned, is it clear? It's clear. The substance of my order - what is this, that is, the change in the Rules of Procedure - concerns matters relating to plant protection, indications and risk. European legislation is tightened in relation to the use and authorisation procedures of certain plant protection preparations. I don't go into any more details. There are extensive and technical tables on this issue. The second provision I am bringing here also has an urgent matter. I am referring to paragraph 2, which regulates a specific fisheries issue and relates to an extension of a period of time for fishermen who, if we do not give them this extension - the deadline is actually ending on 31 August - will not be subject to a regulation made by the previous government. We are asking here to approve the extension of these actions, of the deadline, for a two-month period, to be subject to a regulation that you have made. I hope you're not sad about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u151	We'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u152	If I may, although I have explained my issues, all I want to say to you is that I will table a legislative improvement, because in the explanatory statement there is a printing error. The Rules of Procedure are incorrect. Instead of 1108, refers to 1008. So we now come to legislation to improve this typographical error in the explanatory statement. But if I may, I would like to say a half word about this big issue of the EUPM commander. It's a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u153	As Minister of State now says that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u154	The commander of S.H.I.E.L.D. says Mr. Janakopoulos has done huge damage this month. The commander who has not been appointed and has not been to the NSA! So much Mr. Janakopoulos knows, and he says so obsessed is his criticism that he has appointed him and he has gone and done damage to the unappointed commander! But now we are going on the issue of change. I have not heard the essence of your criticism. Why would I expect from you? I'd expect you to turn around and have a talk about the substance, not about the face. What's the point? Kuveda, you haven't said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u155	That he doesn't have a degree!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u156	That he doesn't have a degree. Watch me: When you say he has no degree, you talk about the face. Here's the question you need to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u157	For who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u158	Listen a little. She's different. Read the two settings and place on it. What does one regulation say, ladies and gentlemen? He says he must have a university degree and an administrative experience. So who can be appointed commander of the NSA with the prior arrangement? Graduate in a university school, with administrative experience...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u159	Time has stopped, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u160	What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u161	Time's stopped, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u162	See? That's not bad. You're so shocked that time stops, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u164	Mr Vellopoulou, unfortunately, time doesn't stop. That's the problem. It's technical, but, unfortunately, it doesn't stop. It's solved now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u165	Will Mr. Voridis speak by morning? And he speaks nicely!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u166	No, I won't talk until morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u167	He won't talk until morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u168	Two arguments and I'm done. I repeat: what does the previous provision say? It says, "graduate and some administrative experience". So who can be appointed? Someone who graduated yesterday, went and took up a management position in a private company for three months, is appointed commander of the NSA. Right? Could be twenty-three years old. Is it done with the previous arrangement? It can be done. What do we say? We say, 'graduate or ten years of professional experience'. Question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u169	Wasn't it both together?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u170	Listen a little. I do not doubt that both of them and the other provision leave a wide discretionary choice of persons. In fact, the will of the legislator, both the previous and the current legislature, to what the government is proposing today, is indeed for the choice of a person in such a critical position to have a wide-ranging discretion. In other words, you say that people with great professional experience may be less qualified for this position than someone who has a degree from anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u171	What about excellence?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u172	And that's not what you're talking about. You are talking about hitting a choice in advance. And that is what the Minister said to you here, that you do not respect the broadly required consensus on these matters. Why? To put out a micro-political part of today! That's all. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question! It is right for the government to legislate and move on to what we have to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u173	Awesome!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u175	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Kegeroglu, we have agreed that this will continue. The procedure is short and clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u177	Let's make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u178	The Ministers will finish reading the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u179	For the amendment which the Minister has spoken about, I shall say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u180	Let me speak, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Ministers will finish the five amendments, we will typically see whether the government, through the acceding minister, Mr Karamanlis, accepts them one by one and then before the debate on the first circle of speakers, will see if the parliamentary representatives are to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u181	But he's insulting us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u182	Parliamentary representatives cannot be placed before the formal incorporation of the amendments into the chamber of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u183	This is about insulting our personality!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u184	Mr Velopoulos, who is the leader of a party and not a parliamentary representative, has rightly called for his post to be followed by the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u185	There's a moral theme here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. So, Mr Plackatotakis is now called on to develop the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u187	What do you thank, Mr President? Will you thank us for being offended by the ministers? Where we were owed, did they take the ox?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u189	Is that possible? Mr Vorides was talking about other issues than his amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't have the floor! Mr Placiotakis will be speaking about the amendment by the Ministry of Shipping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u191	How can I not have him? Others speak among the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u192	Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u193	The practice of even SYRIZA was that between ministers and ordinary MPs! Even at SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're not just a congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I will make the statement. You don't have to listen to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u196	No, that's not how it works! That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u197	The statement is that this disgrace is not legitimising.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Kegeroglu, that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u199	Stay alone, discuss them, the ministers and the Members who vote without asking! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u200	It's not like that, who talks louder. This is done in other arenas! This is where the Minister will speak. Mr. Plackotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. The provision submitted by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy relates to the costs incurred by public service contracts. To this day, what happened? These expenditures were covered by the regular budget of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. And I am referring to the barren lines, which are best known. With what we are doing today, they will actually be covered by the appropriations for the Public Investment Programme. This, practically, what does it give us? First of all, they will not be left unreserved at the end of the year - it is well known that the Public Investment Programme is being carried over to the next financial year until the object is exhausted - and, of course, there will be a better financial result. Why is the order urgent? Because we want to proceed with the competitive procedures in order to promote new public service contracts from 1-11-2019. And what do we intend to do as a government? First of all, to improve the coastline with better ships, with better features, with the possibility of establishing a replacement ship and, of course, to improve the shipping connections of the island. The intention of the current government is to support island Greece, where 15% of Greek citizens live. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask for this provision to be voted on. And let me add at this point that today the new, improved master plan of PPA S.A. was tabled. the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. We had made clear from the first days of the Ministry's political leadership, that we are interested in promoting all the necessary investments that will send the green light to the candidate investors that at last Greece is a friendly country for investment. That is our first concern. This step is taking place within a very short period of time. I want to note that we have been fighting this master plan for the last three and a half years. We, too, in almost a month and a half in cooperation with investors, manage to testify to an improved master plan, of course, in the context of legality. Finally, Greece sends 'green light' and goes ahead with those structural changes that are necessary. This is how we create a competitive climate for investment at last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr Plakkatakis for the brief. Mr Contozamanis has the floor. Mr. Kontozamani, as State Secretary for Health you will speak of the amendment concerning your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. The amendment - adding the Ministry of Health is indeed urgent, because it concerns the consistency of deadlines on the part of the State and on the day-to-day operation of hospitals. In particular, Law 4613 stipulates 1 September as the date of the launch of a new procedure for the approval and funding of conferences and scientific events in the field of health.The competence is transferred from the National Medicines Agency to the Central Board of Health. For technical reasons and due to the fact that advances are required specifically in information systems, it is not possible to be consistent with the deadline, and we are therefore calling for an extension of the deadline for the opening of this procedure until 31 December of this year. Secondly, with regard to the day-to-day operation of hospitals, it is our concern to offer the best health services to the citizens. We are aware of the poor situation of hospitals that we have received and the government has made it clear that the assessment of the administrations of hospitals will be continuous and specific, so that we can provide the best health services. For this reason, in the Committee on the Evaluation of Hospital Managers, we replace a member and put a fighter, a head of the Ministry of Health. She is the most appropriate person who is aware of both anthropogeography in the health system and the daily needs of nursing establishments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u204	The fifth amendment will be developed by the Justice Minister, Mr Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I will try with arguments to strengthen the justification that the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Economou, did earlier. And, of course, I am referring to the amendment that aggregates the resources of the TAXDIK in order to finance, in essence, the functions of the Anti-Criminal Policy Secretariat. I imagine that it is a self-evident amendment, which I do not think raises any question, so that there are different arguments from either side. You realise that it is, in fact, the development that is being undertaken by the transfer of the anti-criminal policy by the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. That is all, Mr President. I think that the basic justification has already been set by Mr Economou earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u206	I would urge the Minister-in-Office, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, to be placed on the amendments tabled by his colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, following the ministerial amendments, which have been developed in plenary by the relevant ministers, I would like to inform you that they are accepted and incorporated into the body of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, a statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u209	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade. This is the formal order of procedure. The Minister of State, Mr Gerapitris, has asked for the floor to be put on these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I did not intend to speak, but Mr Janakopoulos once again gave me the honour to refer to me many times, although I do not propose these provisions, so I have to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u211	Who recommends them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u212	He recommended them, Mr. Economou, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u213	Why, Mr. Gerapetite? Were you afraid?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u214	However, I have to say this and I will try to be as clear as possible. There has been a great reproach for the fact that there are repeated bills that are urgent and urgent. I give a part of who has brought most of the urgency, because as far as I'm concerned, this type of pastology is none of my business. I'm going to get to the bottom of things. Today, the government has been completing thirty-five days since it received a vote of confidence from the House. Thirty-five days! In these thirty-five days, five bills will have been passed, if the House makes the honour of voting today's bill. Let me just remind you that the previous government has brought it to its first bill forty-five days. I therefore urgently request an urgent debate, ladies and gentlemen. Let's see what each one was. The final state came by regular procedure. The rulership of the municipalities had to be voted on by September 1st, because otherwise the system of government of the municipalities would collapse because of the system that was adopted. The tax provisions that came as urgent had to be voted on, because the HIS clearing provisions were issued on the day after tomorrow, which were kept for this reason. Or do we not agree with that, which was voted on by all the governments of the Parliament? The fourth bill was the protection of personal data. We had sixteen months to incorporate the Community directive, which cost EUR 2 500 000, EUR 5 500 every day, which was in progress. Is that not urgent? That was not urgent either. Let me just remind you that all citizens' personal data have remained pending. Let one apologise for the fact that there were two legislative committees and two draft laws and none of them did in previous governance to come within the thirty-five days to settle the issue of stopping the fine. This is urgent, isn't it? This is not a matter of urgency either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u215	For the NSA, say now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u216	Okay, it's not urgent. Today's bill, too, is not urgent. It makes no difference that thousands of citizens are trapped today. None of this matters. It is not urgent that we all be able to drive our car while a large number of people are entangled, because there was a bill, which actually introduced a system that could not actually be implemented this year. This is not urgent. If it is urgent or not - you will allow me to say - to ask those who have been trapped all this time. Then we will see whether it is urgent or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u217	How many thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u218	Will you tell us about the NSA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u219	I'll talk about the NSA, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u220	Is that what Mr. Heliodis tells you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Janakopoulos, obviously, you don't have the floor. You know that. So you're talking for a while. The speaker has his own flow and is unreasonable in relation to your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u222	We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u223	Minister, obviously, you're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u224	Thank you. Thank you for not falling. I would like to point out, therefore, the simple thing: because half the debate on urgency and urgency went out today, I would like to say that - you can recognise that, because you are also legal - that I am the one, who has already dealt with good legislature, that all these legislative initiatives were fireworks to cure floods in previous governance, all one by one. So when the order that was disturbed is restored - you will allow me to say - then you will see the good legislature and assess it in relation to what has happened in the past. Then you will assess it and not in the first thirty - five days that we are forced by de facto to heal gaps, ambiguities, defects that you have created. Second matter. Mr Janakopoulos, I do not like to address people in Parliament at all. But I'll do it once exceptionally. The expressions, as 'we warn you' and 'do not dare', are an insult to democracy, Mr Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u225	Make us lessons of democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u226	The laughing means you don't understand what democracy means. For democracy means, Mr Janakopoulos, respect the rules that have brought this very balance of political forces into Parliament. So let us respect this once. The 'we warn you' and 'don't dare' are expressions which, in my humble opinion, reflect from this space. So let's go see the famous NSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, how long will the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u228	If you want, Mr. Janakopoulou, I don't want to talk about the NSA, then I'm sitting. I don't have a problem. If you want me not to talk about the NSA, I'll sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Janakopoulos, do you want to speak or tell you how long he's going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u230	To speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u231	Whatever Mr. Janakopoulos says, Mr. Gerapitritis. We're subjecting ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u232	I respect that because I respect parliamentary minorities and their rights. I want to say one thing about the famous S.H.I.E.L.D. I am not a parliamentarian for many years, but I know one thing from the House, that there are rules of parliamentary morality, which are too serious and are serious, I am not talking about the Greek Parliament, I am talking about parliaments which have a lot more tradition than we do. So look for a Parliament in the world - I will accept it, because I do not know all about it, I know the very basic things - in which the opposition objects to the Couple on issues relating to the respective national intelligence office. Look at it. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I made you know, I'm not laughing. Because it's a very serious matter. I'm not laughing. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So the question is this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u233	You're exhibiting the NSA. You're the ones who broke the NSA!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u234	You don't have the floor, Mr. Ragosi. Don't make that kind of principle. Mr Ragosisi, you have no say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u235	Did he or didn't he say he wouldn't change anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u236	Mr Ragosisi, you have no say. Mr Ragus speaks poorly and inadmissiblely. Mr Ragosi's holidays are not recorded in the Minutes. Mr. Gerapititi, please continue. Mr. Raguss doesn't sound, he doesn't record.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u237	...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u238	Mr Ragossi, I can speak more than you do. You're not logging. You're predictable too. Mr. Gerapititi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u239	I don't want to use the microphone for the sake of equality when Mr. Raguss doesn't have it. If you want to stop and yell at each other without a microphone, I'm fine. But as long as I have the microphone, you'll do me a favor to finish, and then we'll talk about it. So I say the simple thing: the national intelligence office means a single thing, the government's ability to set the conditions so that it can operate in the public interest, national security and public order. Unless you want this choice in terms of qualifications and the faces to leave them in the Opposition. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Mr President, I cannot go on. I'm sorry. That's not a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u240	Well, Mr. Gerapetritis will certainly finish what he wants to say and then we will proceed to the debate properly. He has a right to say his opinion. Oddly, you have to accept it. Go on, Mr. Gerapititis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u241	So I say this, what the democratic state demands....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u242	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u243	Intelligence is a relevant thing. We must not go into this, Mr Ragosi. Intelligence is a relevant thing. Parliament does not define intelligence. It's a matter of other procedures. We must let him speak and do not interrupt him, because you are insulting the process that is clearer than what you say. Come on, Mr. Gerapititi, we'll make it at the end, you can be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u244	I've heard a lot in my life, but that I don't have intelligence or that I'm insulting the intelligence of others is the first time I've heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u245	And you'll hear it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u246	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u247	I would like to say, therefore, that this simple, national information service means in fact that there is the possibility of appointing a person and defining qualifications so as to serve the public interest. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] It is a matter and there has been no retrospectiveness. Please be technically precise. There's no retrospective. They are defined today and for the future, and there will be the definition of the commander. So, please, much more attention and technical excellence to what we are talking about. I would also like to say a word about the substance, because the subject of the substance is also raised. So let me say, to see that not even the previous commander qualified. Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u248	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u249	Do you know if he was qualified? So let me tell you that the former Commander, Mr Rubatis, did not have an equal or recognised degree. This was never offended by the then opposition. Because the rule of parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u250	It's a false thing to say!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u251	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u252	We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u253	The rule of parliamentary morality requires that there should be a consensus of this kind on matters of national security. I'll go. No change in qualifications! No change in qualifications!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u254	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u255	Please, the situation is now unacceptable! You're not honored by what you're doing! The debate will continue afterwards. We're not a choir here, we're a parliament! Carry on, Mr. Gerapitris.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u256	What was in existence, the requirement of qualifications, administrative experience is increased in ten years, so that it does not mean even one day of administrative experience, so as to enable a degree or major administrative experience to be replaced. That's the reality! No change in qualifications! In any case, greater respect for democracy and greater respect for national security issues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u257	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u258	If you can't stand it, I can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u259	Good. The leader of the party Greek Solution Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos has requested the floor. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u260	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Ragossi, do not trouble your vocal chords. Don't strain your vocal strings. Mr. Velopoulos, please, you have the floor. If possible, Mr. Velopoulos will take over Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Ragossi, will you do us a favor to talk? Can we, Mr. Ragossi? For 15 minutes you are stalling our speech. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u263	We're not delaying anything, the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u264	You've been delayed, Mr. Ragosi, for 15 minutes! You're opposition, but we're here, anyway! Respect the rest a little!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u265	They're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u266	You've done the lie here all those who ruled! Now you remember lying? Come on! Let's take it seriously. Let's start some of the serious stuff. Listen, Mr. Gerapitris. Is he gone? No, he's here. I very much like Mr. Gerapititi. What Mr Gerapitris said to us: those who were struggling for excellence and accused SYRIZA of excellence, that he does not want excellence, now they do not want degrees. That's unbelievable. Mr. Gerapetritis, do you hear what you told us? In other words, you who yelled and blamed the gentlemen here for fighting excellence, you come today and say "do not need degrees, we appoint them!" Listen a little, Mr. Gerapetti: A portrait in an embassy, "secoururitas", is not worthy of being a Commander of the EEA. Don't fool in here! It was at the door of the embassy! So why do you say other things? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's actually go. I have nothing with the man,'secourt' was, like many kids of 700 euros, but as far as the Commander of the NSA is concerned - and we all fight in here because you have committed a crime, a mistake, because you are partying to the state again and I will prove it to you in a little bit with another amendment - the Commander of the NSA, therefore, has the keys to the country's national security in his hands, if we understand correctly. There had to be harmony here, so it shouldn't have been like this, Mr. Gerapetti. Arrest hands unrighteous! You gave SYRIZA the right to say to us and the rest: Excellence without degrees does not exist! What can we do now? It can't be done! And we're going to the next amendment. I liked my friend Makis Voridis - with Maki - we've been friends for years, we've met from the old - in a style - you know, because he has a nice look as a political man - to tell the others from the side: "Between scoundrels honesty! Didn't you do that? You didn't know them in here? Didn't you know you did it, too? So because you do it too, we will do it!' This is a theatre, a pragmatism, and it's not politics, let me go! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's the point. Now tell me about the appointment of the NSA, I mentioned it. We are now going to talk about Mr Chrysochoidis: setting up new addresses, more staff. So, more flexible state, what state are you finally telling us? It is Amendment No 35/5. So, what state are you finally serving? You want to make people comfortable, I get it. You want to make your own party state. I understand, but you should come here and say it rawly, 'we are here and want to plunder the state with our own officials', because the other amendment, which concerns the head of the Ministry of Health, is not because you want to change it, it saves him well, but because he places the managers of the hospitals. And you want all your failed MPs to make them commanders! That's the truth! That's what you have to say so people can believe and believe you, because you really want to rule as a new party with a new spirit and a new style! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the next one. Firstly, I sincerely want to say that I was saddened by Mr Mitsotakis' presence in Germany. I don't care if Mrs. Merkel is a patient. Be good for the lady, because she has a problem. In the national anthem, however, the Prime Minister had to stand up. And I say that as a human and as a Greek. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Secondly, I never expected a Greek Prime Minister to thank the German people. Were we compensated? The statement was: "Thank the German people for their firm understanding of the Greek people for the last 10 years." So what did the German people do to us, gentlemen? Gentlemen of the New Democracy, the German people - I have nothing with him, I was born there, I grew up, there have my relatives' home, I live - what good has it done to us for ten years and I have not understood it? Did he compensate us for 1944? Did he give us the war compensation and the corrections? And should we thank the German people? My grandfather was killed in Janitsa, murdered by the Nazis. May I thank them? No, gentlemen! If they do not make up for their national crime, we do not thank any German and no American people! It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go to the rest. Why does our Minister for Foreign Affairs not go to Poland, ladies and gentlemen? Poland has already initiated an official claim of EUR 850 billion in compensation, which is why it is against Germany. Why don't the Minister go join forces? It is a European country too. Let one of you go. What are you finally afraid of from Germany? Why are you afraid of her? The urgent bills are pretexts in sin. The Minister is right. Most importantly, hundreds of thousands of drivers, but they pass "trailer" from behind and other things, Minister. It is not that you go through this and agree to vote on it. You spend more with it. That's not happening. In other words, prophecies in sins. We justify unjustified. So you say - we are not lying - but at least it is also plausible, to tell the Greek that you are telling truths. Half the truth isn't true, it's a lie. Nor did the consultation take place, the hearing of bodies did not take place, in eighteen articles, of nine ministries involved. It was an emergency somewhere. Let's not be fooled. I'm just wondering the New Democracy MPs. How do you put up with this? How can you handle this? How can you stand this process? Some of you are new, but the oldest ones here yelling for them here, that they brought everything as an emergency and yelling, you got up from the benches and yelling "what are these?" You're doing the same thing exactly. Let's go seriously. Did anyone hear Turkey's Defence Minister today? Have you heard what he said today at noon? "We are in the same place as 1974. It will be done everything it needs from Turkey's side." What happened in 1974, ladies and gentlemen? What happened and threatens us by Turkey's Minister of National Defence? And the political system is not working. Walkers make drills, nobody talks. We're in danger of going to Kastelorizo, getting the Turks pierced and some people smiling in here. They do not realize that we are honestly a step ahead of a bad one - because no one wants war in here - conflict. At some point, however, the Prime Minister may convene the Political Council and say what we can do, what the red line is. I scream: Set an EOZ. It is important that the Greek EEZ finally be made. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because you may not know this: if a drill goes to Kastelorizo, in the fourteen nautical miles and pierce, we have no right to intervene because we have not defined an EEZ. Understood? By 12 we can do anything. In thirteen, 14, fifteen, Greece is not entitled. Let the Greek Parliament decide that we have an EOZ, we determine an EOZ. All parties together to vote so that the Turks are not free to perpetuate in the Aegean. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's just. But something scares you. What are you afraid of? I don't get it. I'm not going to talk about the rest, but I'm going to actually go to PPC. Listen a little, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the question: Article 7. EMEAFAR. I remember some new-democratic Members very well - and Mr Papadimitriou, if I am not mistaken, when he was in SCAI before becoming a MP - that PPC has a lot of taxes, normal taxes. These are ravines. MEMEAR, municipal fees, ERT, a lot of fees. You want to save PPC? Take all these fees off the inside and leave the invoice. They will pay it properly, believe me, all Greeks, because it is the fifth value of the invoice. That's the current. And if all Greeks paid that price, PPC wouldn't go bankrupt. But, you wanted PPC to have been a collector for decades. And let me say one more thing. Mr Gerapetititi has said something very nice: responsibilities will be sought. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] I congratulate you, and if you do, we are with you, to see who went bankrupt the largest company in our country, the engine of industry! We're with you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Look for the moral and natural perpetrators, get some prison. Do you know what PPC means? If PPC closes, the industry ends, Greece ends. So we let her get busted by anyone. But what didn't you tell us? You didn't tell us anything very simple. You did not tell us that the gentlemen here on the left were selling to private individuals - because, he says, it was a memorial obligation - the current lower and they were selling it to us. The known companies. That's not an investment, because you've heard of investments. The well-known private energy companies in Greece are not investment, they are service providers. They have contracts with PPC, they buy cheaper electricity than PPC sells it, and they sell it a little more expensive than they get it. Free business. This was signed by the gentlemen and today they are shouting about PPC. In other words, they put PPC in every day to shut the individuals and gentlemen of SYRIZA have the courage today and are shouting and protesting against those who continue the same crime. Something's wrong. There's something I can't understand. Or I don't understand what's going on around me. As well, I have answers from the ministries. Approximately 12 million are owed by the General Secretariat of Public Orders to PPC. I give the Minister's reply in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] About a million and a half defensive systems. The Ministry of National Defence owes 600,000 euros for giving them to the hot spots of the poachers, Hassan and Ibrahim, and cut off the current of the Greek! Five hundred thousand euros! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Democritus 770,000 euros. The National Observatory of 25,000 euros. A lot of hundreds of thousands of euros owes the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u267	The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u268	Wait a minute, don't rush. When the state owes PPC, why is the state or government now coming to close or sell PPC? To pay the state to PPC. Not to mention the arrangements of the New Democracy. Do you owe or don't you owe? We know that the loans will be arranged. A friend of mine in the village is waiting to regulate his loans in the same way, but he can't. I don't know what happened. A couple of years later, he says, you'll pay. Did you configure your PPC? Did you pay her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Janakopoulos and Mr. Barkas, I don't need any help. I can answer that, too. You didn't pay her. So how do you cut off the current of the one who owes you two hundred euros? The Ministry owes 1,300,000 euros since February and does not pay them. He's not paying! Let's cut the power at the Ministry. Can you? So I tell you that all this proves something very simple. You were unable to do what you were saying. I thought you were ready to plan and implement. You're glue. Let me tell you differently. If it were so urgent, Mr. Gerapetritis, you were 19 of August, all back and not to come 30 and 25 of the month with two bills. On the 20th you were here! I was waiting for you here 20 August and you weren't here most of them. We were alone in the House, walking around. Let's go to the rest, let's close, Mr. President. And thanks for the time. I have a document from a non-governmental organisation before me. Ladies and gentlemen, will you check on the NGOs? Mr. Voridis, you have a weakness in the NGOs. You're going to check them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u271	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u272	I'm glad. So listen. The NGO took 7 million euros, Mr. Voridis. Don't laugh, it's the Greek people's money. It's from the public spending program. I'll give it to you. He took EUR 7 million from the state. Not in New Democracy, don't get confused. I want to say one more thing. Check them out. Turn them off. Close NGOs that are paralyzing in Greece. Seven million euros! So I'm giving you the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u273	Who's that? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u274	I'll tell you right away. Don't rush, Admiral. It's all me. I'm fine with it. About seven million euros, listen, it's from the public spending programme, if I'm not mistaken. They're talking about the documents here. Take yours, with one obligation, to deposit documents of 16,000 euros. What a nice business! I'm figuring out 16,000 euros and I'm taking 7 million. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I don't even get that in my business, one to six million euros, but I don't get those profits either. It can't be done. Something's wrong. Check them. Get them into legality. Can you? With you! It's sunshine, sir. All lies are for you. It's with the Ministry's paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Velopoulos, you thanked me for the time. How much longer do you count? Two, three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u276	Do you know why they're disturbed? Because it's SYRIZA. So let's look it up. Applicable or not. It's a public document, you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Vellopoulou, I'll give you two - three more minutes to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much. So here I have other issues, but I will close down as follows. Friends and friends I have a document in front of me which is aimed at people who have not come here. You say'refugees' to them, 'laughter immigrants'. They're poachers. It doesn't matter to me. They receive a heating oil allowance, a social dividend, a guaranteed social income - CSR - social income of solidarity. We give them money, therefore, and they go and close the railways, they go and close the crossing of the national roads. Today we only had three similar events, not one. They're NGO professionals, most of them. So these foreigners outside Larissa the other day, threats from people to shut down Idomen, all of them show something that if poachers don't leave here, Greece will never really resuscitate. In Exarcheia, you didn't do anything. Nothing really. Do you want the story of the Exarchates to end? Beat the drug dealers, hit gun dealers. Don't pick up every poor guy and take him from here and there. Repeat: Hit our children's killers. To close - because some have a peculiarity on this issue, to close the Greek solution at all times and not to speak - I will say this: it is not a question of voting on the bill, ladies and gentlemen. The question is whether this bill, like the others you brought in, solve the country's problem. Unfortunately, you do not understand one thing, that the Prime Minister went to Germany, nor did it set any surpluses, nor any Ambassadors' Agreement, or German corrections, and all he said was 'thank the Germans'. We "thank you" to no one will ever say. "Thank you" we'll tell the man who proved to be a friend. Germany and every country are not our friend. We're alone, we'll work alone, we'll plan and we'll do it again. "Thanks" to Germans and Americans don't say Greeks when they are blackmailed and raped every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u280	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u281	Wait a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu. We shall proceed with the parliamentary representatives. Parliamentary representatives have the floor in this urgent bill, obviously. I think they've got ten minutes. But before that, on an extremely urgent matter that has to be left, I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Education to develop for just a minute the part of the Ministry of Education, which relates to this bill. Immediately after that, the parliamentary representatives will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u283	Mr Janakopoulou, there are some issues to be understood as basic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u284	For thirty seconds, I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u285	Ma'am, you have a minute to develop the part that concerns you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer not to an amendment, but to two normal provisions in the bill that is being discussed. In Article 16, concerning issues of distinguished athletes in pan-Hellenic matches, the following indent is provided: When distinguished athletes have achieved their distinction before their association is recognised before the publication of the law and the corresponding case, when distinguished athletes exist, the minimum number of clubs, which is necessary to benefit from the distinction, was not present at the time of the publication of this law. So we are doing this in order for these distinguished Greek students to be able to benefit from the law. A second provision, Article 17: The President and Vice-Presidents of the Open University Committee may choose whether or not to suspend administrative, teaching and research tasks in any HEI in which they are serving. This option is therefore given. They choose a parole or not. Thank you very much, Mr President. I think I kept the minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u287	And we thank Mrs Kerameus for keeping the time she has told us. The debate is now at a stage. We are before the first circle of speakers, that is, before the first circle of six colleagues from each party who will speak after the special speakers. Parliamentary representatives are asking for the floor. We will obviously give the floor to the Members of Parliament who are entitled to speak for ten minutes. I propose that every two parliamentary representatives be followed by two Members. If you want all the Members of Parliament to speak, i.e. sixty minutes in formal terms - which will not be sixty, because they will speak twelve and thirteen minutes - and then colleagues in the first circle will speak. My opinion is that they should be two parliamentary representatives, two MPs, two parliamentary representatives, two Members. Please for your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u289	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, we have no objection to what you say, except that we will not be involved in the process. We want to make a simple statement at this stage and we will therefore ask you to speak before the other parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u291	Please make the statement. Alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, we have raised an important issue, beyond the standard of the Rules of Procedure, which is, of course, a matter of fact, and which leads to the poor legacy and Mr Gerapitris, whose books in many cases I have read, the next work that I believe will be written will be how the scientist comes into conflict with what he does as a politician. And it'll be interesting for the next generations. However, today we are at a stage where we are discussing serious issues and there should be no risk of moves being made. Indeed, the issue of the NSA, which may be a matter of national dimensions - put it in this way - must not be confronted in Parliament in one way or another. It requires, as in other cases, prior consultation. If, therefore, it is a national matter, you should have made a national understanding in order not to have this picture here today, which was your sole responsibility. I believe that, as on other issues - for example, Mr Velopoulos has previously raised the issue of Greek-Turkish - the government is lacking - as the previous one in the matter of understanding, given that the government insists on the issue of the EEA in a set of, of course, amendments that we could'suppress' in procedural terms, as we have done in the past with the previous ones. I said it in advance. But this is a very serious matter. You are in opposition to yourself over the past period and to issues of excellence and to the fact that, if reality is different, we say change reality or change issues that do not benefit the place. We therefore believe that the withdrawal of this amendment for further consultation and consultation, which we believe is required, leads us not to take part from here and beyond the procedure, as we have told you beforehand. The choices are yours and the consequences are of course yours. But be careful. This cannot go on. It can't be! We call on the name of the Parliamentary Republic, so that the House, Parliament and, therefore, democracy, in a way worthy of the expectations of the Greek people, will no longer make such challenges, because they are challenges. Thank you. You can tell each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u293	Good. This statement has been understood. I would like to say to you this: Mr Kegeroglu's statement is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Yet the word was given and man spoke two, three minutes. It is up to us to be able to do things beyond the strict concept of the Rules of Procedure, provided that we do not go too far. Obviously, I am telling you in general, because it is a shame to fortify behind a strict observance of the Rules of Procedure. So it's up to us to get the process better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u295	I have now proposed that the parliamentary representatives speak. Obviously, you are not asking me why you should start talking, but to place yourself on the procedure I have proposed. Here, then, you have the floor, Mr Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u296	Look, Mr President, I have no objection to the procedure you propose. We have no objections. However, this is where we are faced with a reality. In an urgent bill, five, six ministers spoke as long as they spoke, and what we end up with, especially given the huge issue that has arisen in our opinion with the amendment concerning the Director of the EEA, is this: If Parliamentary Representatives speak for ten minutes, we will either not have the opportunity to talk about the amendments that have been tabled and are extremely important, or we will have to put aside the substance of the bill. Not everything can be done at the same time. I therefore think that there should be a circle of parliamentary representatives in relation to what has been said - if we accept it here, because you also said that we should be relatively flexible in relation to the procedure - on the issues of the amendments. We cannot exhaust all the issues in the tenth quarter that we have as Parliamentary Representatives to talk about the bill, because in this way there will be no debate on the bill after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u297	No one said it'd be ten minutes. In fact, I said it could be twelve and thirteen and fourteen. But speaking for two quarters - which will be fourteen minutes - is not possible, i.e. I cannot invent a new procedure. The urgent procedure has been decided. This has been judged. It's over. So, as Parliamentary Representatives, you think it is now time to speak your tenth minute, which will obviously be slightly larger, or do you want to continue to accumulate issues and then answer them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u298	Now I want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u299	You want it now. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u301	Do you agree with the process of interrupting and talking to two Members from the first cycle? It seems that we are also in agreement with this that the debate with the six parliamentary representatives is not going to take place. Now, before the six Parliamentary Representatives speak on the subject of procedure - our adorable subject, the procedure! - Mr. Manolakou, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u302	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u304	Mr Levane, would you like the floor on a point of order too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u305	In reply, Mr President, to what Mr Janakopoulos said in relation to our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u306	The Court ruled as follows: Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u307	I want to make a statement. Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists has denounced the government's tactics with the repeated tabling of bills in urgent procedure, without giving time for study and preparation, which is why it left yesterday's meeting of the competent parliamentary committee, warning the Government to stop this tactic. Today, in the debate in plenary, the Government insists on its provocative tactic by tabling delayed amendments that are not in line with the draft legislation which is being discussed, with rousphetological and photographic main content, such as the contested amendment to change the ratings of the EDPS commander, despite the friendly efforts made by the Minister of Gerapetritis to convince us that nothing has changed. We were also in the debate and the contents of the bill - which we are of course voting against - and we have repeatedly called for the withdrawal of all the amendments, but the government insists on its tactics. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists does not want to legitimise this unacceptable procedure and we will withdraw from the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u308	This is the statement recorded in the Minutes. Mr Levane, you want to talk about the point of order. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. The view of the two parties that leave is respected. Mr Janakopoulos, who keeps asking the procedural questions, tells us that he does not like to talk about the procedure, but that is what keeps it going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u310	What did I put? What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u311	I think that also on the issue of the PPE amendment, but also on the issue of urgency, we have taken the floor, the parliamentary representatives have expressed all the arguments, the procedure has gone ahead. We will agree with your proposal that, with your tolerance for a few minutes, the normal course of the circle of those representing the representatives is left in the Chamber and I think there is enough time - the first arguments have been exhausted - to talk about the amendments or about what everyone wants. I understand that Mr Janakopoulos is looking for whether he should leave too or not. Well, if he decides, we'll be here to greet them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u312	Patience, patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u313	We don't mind. You're used to us leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u314	All right, so we shall proceed with the parliamentary representatives with a slight tolerance. Mr. Janakopoulos, you want to lead. Well, you have the floor.DIMITRIOS GANACOPOULOS: Thank you, Mr President. Once again we have to face an empty Chamber, and I think that this is an absolute responsibility for the government and the way in which we are now accustomed to legislating. It has great talent in blowing down procedures and parliamentary debates in the air. That is what he has done with the Brooklyn amendments, and this is what he is doing today with the unacceptable amendment for the commander of the PPE Group. I wonder why Mr Mitsotakis did not come here to defend this amendment? It is probably not a privileged subject for show, such as what he did last week in the other bill in relation to the lifting of capital controls, which was specified as being done. You know, Mr Mitsotakis, if he came here to defend this amendment, he would have to admit that he lied when he answered the President of SYRIZA on a relevant question, he had clearly stated that he would not table any amendments that would change the qualifications for the selection of the commander of SYRIZA. He should admit that he lied when he claimed that his choice had no legal effect and should admit that the appointment in question was illegal. It is here, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment - a scandal, because you are choosing to humiliate the National Intelligence Agency and I insist. You insist and choose to humiliate yourself and insist and choose - and this is most important of all - to humiliate the country itself, because the commander of the NSA is not one of the leaders of any organisation or body. It has a crucial role both internally and with regard to the country's international relations. Instead of answering the majors, you chose as a government through the competent or unauthorised ministers to make a legal and entrepreneurial hammer. This was the government's choice today to make a legal and entrepreneurial hammer. But the credibility of the NSA, ladies and gentlemen, is not a mess. Its powers and powers do not allow a mess. However, I would also like to insist on something else concerning the democratic sensitivities for which the Minister of State, Mr Gerapepitris, has a tendency to recognise to himself a special privilege, which I certainly do not understand exactly where it arises from. The last thing I want to do is say what I understood was that the Minister told us. He told us that in no country in the world Parliament is discussing the terms and conditions on which the functioning of the National Information Services is regulated. So what exactly does the Minister want? Do we abolish the law? Does the government have unlimited power, without being limited by the law on the terms of operation of the National Intelligence Service? Is that the state of law? Is that parliamentary and democratic sensitivity? Is that the sensitivity to the democratic principle? But I would like to say that democratic sensitivity is ultimately not measured when we constantly invoke it. It shall be measured in practice, measured in practice and demonstrated in practice. I would like to reverse the question posed by Mr Gerapetti and ask the government to tell us a country in the world which is asking Parliament whether it has or does not have any command of the National Intelligence Service! For I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a few weeks ago the receipt ceremony was held between Mr Rubbai and the new commander, which you have chosen. What exactly did the unappointed commander receive? And I want to ask another question. Tell me a country of the world, if the commander of the NDP has not been appointed, who the Prime Minister chooses to leave the country unprotected and chooses to leave the country undetermined for 30 whole days, so that he can legally create the terms to suit the principal he has chosen and who does not have the necessary qualifications! Tell me a country in the world where the commander of the NSA has no degree, but he's the manager of a security company! Because that's what this is all about. No country like this in the world you'll find. Now we're going to law-making because you like it very much, and because it's heard that they don't change the appointment qualifications of the NSA commander. Of course they change. As the phrase ‘certificate of national or foreign and administrative experience’, which applied under the previous law, is converted into ‘university degree or foreign or professional experience for a ten-year period’. And it does not specify exactly what professional experience is going on. Any professional experience? Is it sufficient for any professional experience without the necessary educational and educational skills to be appointed by an NRA commander? It's obvious what we're dealing with here. We're dealing with a scandalous arrangement. We are dealing with a huge Prime Ministerial scandal, because Mr Mitsotakis chooses to self-determination, to degrade his Government and to degrade it primarily - because we are concerned with this - the country to suit a gentleman who may be prepared to offer Mr Mitsotakis and the new government. Indeed, it is unacceptable that we are talking here about a national matter, a matter of sensitive national intelligence. But - why do we have a limit - I wonder who is responsible for the fact that this huge issue is coming to the Greek Parliament and for the fact that there are no conditions of credibility and confidence that all the political parties in the National Intelligence Service have to have? Is it the Opposition that you choose to change the terms and conditions for the appointment of the EUPM commander? And what exactly do you want us to do? Be quiet? Do you want to let it go through this huge prime scandal? Do you even ask us for the fact that we show up and reveal the unbelievable poaching you are doing? Can the Opposition be invoked for revealing this huge prime ministerial scandal, which has been mentioned for over twenty-five or thirty days? I am also aware that I said that we are warning the government not to go ahead with this amendment. Of course we warned her. Of course, we told you 'do not dare, do not dare', because it is an anti-democratic, institutional diversion, that you chose to change the terms and conditions for the appointment of the OSH commander for whom there should be a relative consensus and, above all, there should be conditions of his confidence and credibility with regard to all the citizens of that country. There are currently no such conditions and this is done and this is chosen by the government in a specific way. But, Mr President, I would like to speak for two or three minutes on the bill, for which I was also insulted by the Minister of State, because I criticised its urgency. However, the basic criticism is not procedural and I will insist on it. It's essential. I would like to ask the government and the relevant ministers something, none of which makes us the honor of what I see to be here for the bill we are discussing today. I don't know where they are, they may have more important jobs than listening to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u315	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u316	We welcome Mr. Kefaliannis now. Mr. Karamanlis did us the honor for no fourth, twenty minutes. Perhaps, due to the fact that Mr Kefaliannis has no legislative initiative and could not accept the amendments tabled by the ministers, Mr Karamanlis accepted the amendments and we went further. So I wonder about this in relation to this bill: Who imposed its urgency? Is the advice to proceed so quickly with this bill related to the presence of Mr Helios yesterday in committee, Mr Ministers? And do you know who Mr. Heliodis is? If you don't know, I'll tell you. Yesterday in committee, Mr Spirtzi, Member of the SYRIZA, pointed out the fact that in the Committee on Production and Trade there was a gentleman, who is President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Educational Guides, without this being provided for in the Rules of Procedure, because there was no hearing procedure. We have asked the President of the Commission, therefore, exactly how this gentleman was found in the committee. The chairman of the committee replied that this gentleman is a partner of the Minister and as a partner of the Minister there is indeed someone attending the committees to be able to monitor what is being distributed and to be able to inform him accordingly. However, when we pointed out that this Mr. Heliodis is accused of a felony on the corruption circuits, which were tying the tests for driving licences, he suddenly changed the trophy, and this gentleman was converted by counselor into an informal consultant. It was then converted by an informal minister of the Minister into an informal advisor of the state and in the next phase it was forgotten and, to my mind, the Minister replied that he did not know this gentleman. So what's going on? What exactly advice does Mr Helios give the Government, accuse - I repeat - of the corruption circuits which culminated in the examination procedures? Why am I saying all this? I am saying all this because it is directly related to the bill we are discussing today. Why is this bill coming to do? It actually comes to abolish a law of the previous government, which aimed precisely at fighting corruption circuits in the examination procedures of driving licences. Have you heard these circuits? Has it taken your ears what exactly happened to your own governance in the past few years in relation to driving licences? And what do we have here now? We have the reactions on the part of these circuits, which undermined the application of the previous government's law, precisely because they put the finger on the type of suns and created conditions to combat these circuits. And for what? In order to return to the old regime, instead of discussing what conditions the law that we in the previous Parliament had passed could be implemented and precisely aimed at fighting corruption. In short, what is aimed at by the bill we are debating today, from the point of view of the guilt, because the basic debate on government's responsibility has again gone elsewhere, is that of returning to the old corruption regime, to the old regime of circuits that were tying the tests for driving licences. This is the political substance of the bill and everything else is nothing but prophecies in sin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u317	Mr Hetas has been asked for the floor as a Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution rather than a Solution. You should know that you have half the time, because the President of your Party has spoken, so you will have five minutes. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Mr President. In any case, I will be brief, and I would say so myself, because our President has spoken. As far as the bill is concerned, our special speaker spoke. This is not a good picture presented by Parliament. We don't like it at all, I said it at first. Today we met here to talk a very serious bill. It should be serious. We should be talking about road education, road behaviour, and instead we are discussing other issues. The problem of Parliament - let me convey the image from outside to inside, because I am new to Parliament - is that you think that what we are talking about here is between us. You forget the world is watching us. You forget the fact that we are representatives of the world, of the citizens. We do not represent ourselves, neither do we nor the party criteria. The world is the one who sent us here and we are being watched, and the image we have, unfortunately, is not good. We must invoke logic and reason in here today does not exist. You're trying to convince us, Mr. Gerapetiti, of something that's wrong and you know it's wrong. This story about the NSA and the leader of the NSA is wrong. Every common mind understands that it's wrong what you're doing. You're trying to convince us it's okay because from now on the deal or measures will enter into force. It's wrong. And I wonder why it is a government with a hundred and fifty-eight MPs, why is a new one-month government sitting fresh and dragging behind a PPS commander, since he does not meet the conditions himself? I don't understand what a violin that is. I don't really understand it. Why do you take such a big blow? This is a matter of yours and your communications, it's none of my business, but you're wrong and you know it. But don't try to convince us about the opposite. I told you something. You forget we're talking about the world. What example are we here today in society? Are the perfect ones going on, or are the cozy ones going on? What's the password? What's the message we're going through in the world today? Tell us, Professor. You're talking to your students. What are you going to tell them tomorrow in the teaching room, that those who do us the job or those who are excellent and are worth it to go on? For the bill, I will say two or three things, because I spoke to one of the two committees. Yesterday we had two committees, the Committee on Trade, which is to say that we would talk about the bill - which we never spoke about - and the Commission on road safety. You know what? It's not gonna change anything. We cannot talk in this House about road safety and driving education, because these should be discussed today and we should go over these problems, about how our children will learn from us first, because road safety and road education start from swinging, not from school, how we can become people and stop this undeclared war on asphalt. But how dare we talk about road safety and road education when there is no - Mrs Keramea is not here, she has left - a course of traffic education, as is the case in other countries, because we do not see the other examples. I tabled it to the committee yesterday, and I will put it before you today. In Sweden since 1924, this lesson has been taught, which is why people have almost minor accidents. She has been taught since 1924. So the Greeks we taught culture, history, which we gave our lights, what do we do? We're getting killed in the streets. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned manual, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So this is the manual that, over the years, is of course evolving, but it has been taught to children since 1924 and we today, instead of making a decision to put it into our schools, are discussing other things. I don't have time. I'll have to run too much. I will make a brief comment on PPC. I shall refer to PPC's enormous theme. Mr. Hatzidakis, who likes twitter, wrote: "If we hadn't taken measures on September 24th, PPC and the country would face tragic consequences. The sworn auditor would ask for violent measures for the operation. Overall, the Greek economy, due to the problem that makes it uncontrollable, would be in an incredible circumstance." Listen a little. In one paragraph it says 'tragic consequences, violent measures, uncontrolled problem, unbelievable circumcision'. Let us start by saying: 'Lords, the invoices are increasing.' There is no need for this terrorism. "We increase tariffs" and the case is over. Do you have to terrorize us, Mr. Hatzidakis? But he doesn't do that. You know why he doesn't, but he's trying to get through sweets and gold up the pill? Because on 22 July Mr Hatzidakis had said - and I will table it in the Minutes - "I promise that PPC will not increase its tariffs." Thank you very much, Mr Hatzidakis, for the new frame. It's not just about us, you know. It's mostly about people out there. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll make a comment, because we're on PPC. In the draft law, Article 7 does not take account of any social criteria. This is a crime. We must bend and listen to the world, the citizen, the people with problems. It does not take into account any social criteria in the bill. It does not take into account the sensitive social groups, nothing, or even - if you like, the climate areas. The same I will be asked to pay for myself and my fellow citizens in northern Greece, which has a minus ten, with the citizen in Chania, who never lights up his califer or air conditioner? Shouldn't these be taken into account? Aren't we here because we represent the world? Shouldn't we listen to them? Everybody in the same bag? Today we've been on our way out to Lesvos. Five hundred forty - seven young men went there, one hundred seventy - seven men, one twenty - four women and two hundred - six children. We live again days of 2015. Moria broke the record. We have a new negative record. Of nine thousand six hundred forty who were in there, today with them, they went to the ten thousand and eighty. These are the problems we have to deal with and we are looking at how the New Democracy convinces SYRIZA who made greater mistakes or greater uncertainties and irregularities. I close with the irregularities and the Rules of Procedure of the House. Decide whether or not we should overlook certain rules for the good of discussion and dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The debate will then begin, as we have said, between parliamentary representatives, ministers and first-cycle speakers. Mr Simopoulos has the floor now, who is the first in the first circle of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and today we are in the same spectators' work, and we are in the same spectators' work as the Chief of Staff. For two days in the Committee on Production and Trade, and today, we are constantly seeing a point of order, which in many respects does not really allow us to discuss the subject. Also, the Civic Opposition usually moves with the logic of the killer - I put the word "political" because they have easily learned to distort things - who turns to the scene of the crime and asks for the change from the relatives of the victims or ultimately "where they owed us, they took the ox". What did we talk about yesterday in the Committee on Production and Trade? We talked about this bill and of course PPC. Today's Opposition, which, for four and a half years - unconsciously, I believe - has literally repudiated the largest company in the country, does not want to help with proposals to rescue it. In fact, we spoke with representatives of yesterday who did not know basic economic issues, with representatives who - note this - had critical government positions. There was a minister of the previous government who told us: “And what do you want? From NOME, the previous government collected 2 billion." She did not say, however, that the NOMEs cost her 2.5 billion or 3 billion. I believe that what he said is due to the complete ignorance of minimum economic policy rules. I now come to this bill. The intentions were good. No one's denying it. The road to hell, however, often is in good intentions. You went to rationalise or, if you want to revert completely, a situation that was in a very wrong direction, agreeing with you that radical change was needed. And what did you manage? A complete mess! You created a social problem where it did not exist. Yes, it may not be a hundred thousand, a hundred, ninety or eighty. The number's from the Ministry, and I believe it. Inside them, however, as I said yesterday, there are professionals who cannot work, young people who may not be able to move to or from work to home. And you know, politics is not just about big ones. To restore normality is not just about capital controls or asylum. He's referring to the little ones too. And being able to get a hundred thousand people to have their diploma is a return to normality. On the substance, twenty-six regulations have not been adopted. I do not have to say one, the rapporteur has said one. It was a fully inapplicable bill. The government says: we want time to solve this problem on a temporary basis. We will probably keep whatever provisions and measures from the previous bill were right and as soon as possible we will bring in a new bill. You spoke yesterday, mainly, but also today, the rapporteur for Officerial Response spoke about road safety. What kind of road safety are you talking about? Do you know that you have stopped work that had pre-supposed appropriations of EUR 500 million for road safety and had actually been allocated to EGNATIA for road safety assistance throughout Greece? You didn't do anything. You played with this particular pre-binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u321	You're confusing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u322	What did you do with the Patras Tower project? There you are politicians - politicians, again I stress - murderers! The mothers of those who have been killed there in recent years and their relatives have to apologize politically. A project ready for four to five years to be auctioned and now we haven't moved a step since.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u323	When was it ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u324	So don't worry about road safety. You have a full responsibility for what has happened for four and a half years throughout Greece with the works, which you have delivered and cut, while it was 95% ready. That's what you did. You cut ribbons! The Minister with the ribbons! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u326	No, it's a show. Mrs Perka, you have spoken more than your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u327	It's personal. He referred to me. He showed me with his finger and I'm a rapporteur. Please, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u328	This is inspiring. The Rules of Procedure do not speak of inspiring. He's talking about an abomination and a change of words. There's no offense to inspiring.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u329	You just said we shouldn't be so strict. He referred to me on a subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u330	No, there isn't. And the need to talk - which I understand - cannot be covered with a description of other ways of speaking, such as personnel. The Minister has the floor, Mr Thomas, and then he's Mr. Bored. Mr. Thomas, you have the floor to refer to the object of your ministry embedded in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 7 on EMFF ensures the implementation of Law 4585, which was voted on by the previous government in December 2018 and which was not implemented until July. The appropriate Ministerial Decision was not adopted to implement this law, which would, among other things, have provisions to make the charge of EMFF compatible with State aid in the fields of energy and environment. There was a loose end as of 2014. Since this law has not been implemented by the previous government, it is urgent to table an amendment so that the validity of the law begins with a ministerial decision. Apart from this, in the monthly issues of the EMFF, issued until May 2019, a net surplus has occurred in its revenue due to the EMFF. And these increased revenues are due to an increase in the price of greenhouse gas emissions. With the law and with the next ministerial decision, we are given the opportunity to normalise the situation, to exploit the surplus in the ETUCAR account to reduce the similar contributions to households and low-voltage entrepreneurs and to help PPC, which faces serious liquidity problems, as we presented yesterday to the relevant committee of Parliament and this morning and this afternoon. PPC is one of the largest payers of the EMCDDA, due to its market share, and the reduction in this amount will enable PPC to be able to obtain liquidity as a result of the corresponding increase in the competitive part of its invoice. The new charges, which will be lower, will not have a negative impact - as was requested yesterday and today and I confirm - on RES producers. The fund will remain surplus. And we have held appropriate consultations with the institutions to ensure this. And as I said, the government's general policy is to promote renewable energy with the necessary resources and not less. We therefore make this arrangement fully committed that there will be no negative impact on renewable energy producers. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In addition, there will be a decision in time on the annual allocation of emission allowances, which will allow us to increase the EMFF fund. I would like to make a little reference to Article 8, which extends the deadline for objecting to forest maps, which have been posted for all citizens. It gives an extension from 30 August to 30 October to allow citizens to object to the forest maps which have been posted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bored for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. You would say, ladies and gentlemen, that everything that's been going on in the last few days is obscene or demystic about the way a government is conducting with such a recent and strong mandate if it wasn't very serious. Look at you: here we are not alarmed, as has been done before, so that the Greek people do not understand what this is about and what we are talking about. It was urgent: this is where we went through the urgent procedure. When the Rules of Procedure were saying that something needs to be done in secret, that is to say to make something at 3 p.m. and call on Parliament to discuss at 10 p.m. It goes beyond that, because what's going on? The way, drunkenness reveals and betrays the springs, because as soon as morning it is not whether or not the MPs have been able to read the bill. There's something else. Revealed to the Committee of Parliament because this precursor. And how was he revealed? A gentleman at the meeting who, as Mr Janakopoulos said, is not only involved in a category of serious, that he is involved in a ring of fake driving licences, but is a representative of a narrow, hard lobby with which the local driving schools, which this lobby, this core of interests, had announced, will come back to the old system. I would like to say this: if the government really wanted it, it was of the opinion, as the abstention of the minister had allowed it to be implied in May, that this law needs corrections or that it could not work directly and effectively, it would take an initiative to improve this law. But that's not what this is all about. Openly, clearly and in the preamble, the government says "we are returning to the old regime of driving licences", a regime which had been denounced as a stadium of corruption and transaction not only by today's Opposition, major or minor, but by the New Democracy itself. And you know what? I do not know what this gentleman is who was present in committee after all. At first, the Minister said he was a consultant, then said an informal counselor. I'll say this, I'll call him superintendent. He was supervised to oversee whether what had been decided was applied literally. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do not shake the finger, Minister, because I will tell you what is serious: you say that there are no tests. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u334	Leave the theatrics, Mr. Varemene.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u335	Don't steal the time, please. You're saying there's no test. Examinations are also being carried out in certain areas, such as Crete, as mentioned in the committee yesterday, 50 over-ages have been cut off along the road. If these fifty in Crete, Minister, and I do not know how many of the rest of the country now that you have given them freedom are starting to drive and we have the accidents, who will take responsibility? Do you take care of it? I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Heliodis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Heliodis anyway is irresponsible. It's the lobby that it imposes without checking. If, then, we have accidents, who takes responsibility? I ask you directly. Can I tell you something? Is there a serious political misunderstanding in this House and not just? That the order given to you by the Greek people is to return to the old regime? I claim that this is not the order and will sooner or later be verified what was the meaning of the order and what exactly you receive. For most of these things, which I have briefly described, because I do not have time for today's amendment. How do you want us to characterize it? Has Mr. Vorides been here with various pirouettes to say that this is where we are discussing what should be the qualifications of the commander of the NSA? That's not what we're talking about. If we are discussing this, we may indeed find that the commander of the NSA must have worked on security services. That's not what we're talking about. Here we are discussing the major political issue that arose when the Prime Minister of the country from Stepa - I do not know which - in reply to Tsipras said to him 'no law will change, Mr Tsipras'. And you come today and you change the law. What European country is this doing? Because I hear you say 'to see what is going on in Europe'. Did you involve the continents? And I say that without wishing to touch any continent. What kind of practice is this? You are coming back and you have a law to adapt to a person you said - not just in general and abstractly, but the Prime Minister - that the law is not going to change. And you want us to call you "bravo"? Hey, let's tell you. 'Bravo', go on and you'll see at some point that it's too late to review this practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u338	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Charles Marx argued that history was repeated the first time as a tragedy and the second time as a hoax. So then, after the tragicity of your previous government that carried out the disastrous historical past - and I am referring to the historical government past of this government - it is time for the greatest farce, the parliamentary pragmatism and the grief of the urgency. For a long time, it has been attempting, in fact, to consolidate a parliamentary and constitutionally unacceptable legislative practice, which, in view of the amendment on the commander of the EIB, also makes the parliamentary procedure absolves democracy, and touches the limits of the constitutional diversion. The pattern of all four bills, which the government has brought up to now, is common: three urgency and one urgency. Even the process in which the final state bill, which was very short, was discussed and passed, could be said to be part of this urgent spirit. We therefore believe that this contempt for the institutional functioning of Parliament and of the civil society has no end. We are deciding and ordering without respect for the basic constitutional and legislative ethics, with a mania - and we would say - political totalitarianism and a clear aim, in essence, to involve democracy in the moving sand of the opposite side from what the government has announced and formulated, which is the most irregular normality. In relation to the articles, I shall refer to some, very few of the articles, because, as we condemn the rough and hasty legalization, we are also violating a sloppy and hasty opposition, a skinly positioning on the articles. The ability to drive citizens over eighty years of age has been decided by the Government to certify secondary medical committees with simple clinical examinations. There is no provision at all for testing in actual vehicle traffic. Is that really the case in the rest of the countries? Is the licence renewed to eighty or seventy years? According to a US survey, drivers over sixty-five years of age are 73% more likely to end up in injury after a car accident and have 17 times more likely to end up in general by an accident. Is the government aware that in many countries renewal of the licence entails not only participation in information sessions and simple clinical examinations, but also testing on the road itself? So, what do we do instead of self-evident? We fly the ball to the secondary medical committees, which, if they judge it wrong, if there is any medical negligence, can then be traced back to a holiday and in a way not so impartial and objective. It is well-known that reflexes of this age group of people, who are particularly vulnerable, are subordinated, are dangerous to road safety and, in particular, to a country where there is a fact that substantial traffic treatment is lacking, so that there is a phenomenon of inconsistent driving behaviour and the loss of traffic accidents can be compared to the tragic losses of a war country. In the face of these regulations, therefore, the government should take substantial steps to make traffic education more essential and to develop prudentness and compliance with road traffic rules from an early age. With regard to Article 4 for the famous ‘guineas’, therefore, municipalities or the region are deemed to be responsible for whether or not these vehicles can be circulated in the areas within the jurisdiction of the municipalities. When in the tourist areas, where there is increased interest in these vehicles, the interests of the tenants and merchants in these vehicles are embraced by the respective interests and expectations of the mayors, the local rulers, to ensure their re-election, we all understand that the logic and care of the lives and physical integrity of the tourists who will drive these vehicles will not be the same. Is it possible, then, to put so many people at risk, especially young people and hence also to influence the country's tourism, which is the number one product and these issues instead of assigning them to the central design, assigning them to regional administration, decentralisation? I'm coming to Article 18. You have literally transferred to a night with a Presidential Decree of the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, without any prior consultation, without even ignoring the Council of Europe's Prison Rules, which recommend penitentiary, penitentiary policy, to be subject only to the justice portfolio and to matters relating to the service or political administration of prisons, to be completely distinct from the Security Body. What do we really want to do? Be like the country of Orban? Even in Brazil, Bolsonar has not dared the government on such a legislative initiative to regulate such important issues. So it is now so much love for justice that this ministry is actually weakening on matters that are of a legal nature! And at this point we would like to mention the contradiction in the provision of the article, which stipulates that matters of penitentiary policy are also matters of administrative and technical nature, so it falls within the Ministry of Civil Protection, but forensic services and judiciaries remain the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Honestly, this distinction between these issues cannot be understood when anti-crime policy even governs the spirit of the articles of the Criminal Code themselves. This is therefore a transport which poses serious risks. It marks the passage from the time when the prisoner was treated as a human, now treated as a security threat. It is a particularly dangerous passage, as the former Secretary-General for Crime Policy has already pointed out. So there is a basis for security alone. This transfer basically symbolizes the removal from the model of the prisoner's social reintegration, the introduction of a new penitentiary policy, characterised by revenge, punishment, from the doctrine of "class and security", with the sole aim of avoiding the escape of the prisoner, thereby neglecting the living conditions of the detainees, the social reintegration programs, the education programs, which all these issues are solely the responsibility of justice. In fact, and by its nature, we believe that the Ministry of Civil Protection does not have the institutional foundation, it does not have the necessary structures to prepare and implement a proper penitentiary policy. Education and training programmes will be replaced by a weapon, which will be carved in every corner of the prison, with all known consequences, all known misconduct, known disciplinary and duty violations, which are observed, regardless of whether they are before justice and whether or not they are finally punished. We therefore call on the Government to withdraw this provision, it is extremely problematic and dangerous and, above all, the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of detainees, taking into account all international conditions, taking into account the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and, above all, all the reports made by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture on the conditions of inhuman and degrading treatment in which prisoners are subjected very often, so that all these incidents can be investigated and living conditions are finally consistent with human dignity. Therefore, anti-crime policy must be harmonized with a policy which treats the prisoner as a human, with specific social reintegration and education needs. Finally, on the issue of the FIFG, the Court of Justice Fund: under this provision this fund will be a co-manager with prisons by the Ministry of Civil Protection, who will in fact finance the projects of the penitentiary policy. The question is: where will the fund draw the resources from? What the government does not tell us is where it will draw from to strengthen the fund's budget and be able to finance this issue of penitentiary policy. It is clear that this will be done using the method of cuts and one of the institutions that will be affected primarily by these cuts will be the very important institution of the social rule of law, we believe, the institution of legal aid to the most deprived citizens, the citizens of low incomes. I shall now refer to the amendment on the PSP commander. The Minister said that this provision serves the public interest, and Mr Economou said that the appointment of a person with operational capacity is to be ensured when, in essence, this amendment degrades the qualifications of the person to be appointed and it will not be necessary for him to have university education and without specialising in his previous 10-year professional experience. Because the question is how a person, who, for example, can have an experience in private security, can have a very important role in such a major issue of public interest and what the knowledge of this person will be, inherent in public security, such as cyber defence, information collection, interrogation techniques, such as foreign policy issues, such as administrative matters. Not even pre-service or administrative knowledge specializes in the law. So, with regard to these issues of such increased public interest, how is it ensured by this provision that the person appointed will be able to fulfil his or her duties in conjunction with, of course, - I am now referring to the additional responsibilities that this person has - by working with the respective departments of other countries and international organisations to carry out his or her mission more effectively? It may sign Memorandums of Cooperation with these bodies, in particular with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. How, then, can this person, without even university education and previous administrative experience and knowledge in all the areas I mentioned above, have such an important role? In any case, we denounce the way in which this amendment was introduced, which is not inherent to the object of the bill, as laid down in Article 88. We denounce the current policy of the government to despise the Rules of Procedure and make an abusive interpretation of the urgency. The government is of the opinion that it has been exposed not only to the MPs but also to the entire Greek people, who sees the famous account of political decency and institutional commitment. We would really like the government to explain what happened to those glorious promises to strengthen democracy, to public permanent consultation. After all these and all the unacceptable parliamentary procedures we also denounce the amendment, we denounce the whole procedure and, as MERA25, we declare that we will abstain from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u341	I will give the floor to the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theochari. You weren't here, Minister of Health. As regards the time you complain, the parliamentary representatives have a tolerance from the outset from the Bureau. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, thank you. I won't take much time. Two issues I want to mention. Of course, I would first like to support Article 9 of our Ministry, which refers to a real situation that we are trying to resolve. The deadline for tourism operators to obtain environmental permits has already expired, because a horizontal provision has come from the previous SYRIZA government, which all had to obtain permits. But this is a complex matter. In many cases - I would say most - the public is what cannot grant them permission, because the yachts have not been designated, the forest maps have not been ratified. In other words, there is a number of problems. And as the Greek Chamber of Hotel in its letter, which I present in the Minutes, says: "The issues of the environmental licensing of existing hotels are complex and complex due to frequent changes in the legislative framework, which does not take into account the time of establishment of the hotels, dealing in a uniform and horizontal way with existing hotels, without recognising the specificities". And the letter concludes: "Despite the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism to deal with the problem by introducing time extensions to deposit environmental licensing, however there is still a significant number of hotels that are unable to complete the licensing procedure for reasons that do not go back to their own field of responsibility". I give the letter as well. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore a necessary and late extension, and that is why we are tabling it as a Ministry of Tourism in this urgent bill, so that we can resolve the problem that had, of course, to be solved before the elections and, as I said, was created by this horizontal extension. Allow me, Mr President, to make a more general comment on what we are hearing all the time we are waiting for. We saw Mr. Bored to move the finger and to tell the Minister "Don't move the finger!" in a typical reversal of the reality that SYRIZA has used to do, or we hear them talking to us about PPC, those who have led it to the lip of destruction. However, what I wanted to say is one: The main criticism of SYRIZA towards this bill by the Ministry of Infrastructure is that there is corruption and therefore we had to allow the current bill to continue. With the current bill, they don't get permission. So we suggest that in this 'good' practice you have, so that there is no corruption in towns, that building permits be banned, and that there is no corruption in tax revenues, that economic transactions be banned! That's the concept of politics you're bringing SYRIZA into.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament should be working at night. It's taking us more. Not that 'we have midnight' - we know what happens to us - but then the bills pass as an emergency, a few minutes before midnight. And it would be a good thing if we don't have the time to study them at that time, to point out some things. It's a lot of pages. I'm trying to locate some points from last night when it comes to driving licences. Listen, ladies and gentlemen: Politics is made with proposals of the heart and suggestions of reason. We need to get both together. There is also a popular saying, "no matter how much the mind runs, it does not reach the heart." We can't just go with emotion. I understand that thousands of fellow citizens expect us to get the diplomas and many of them need them, because they must also use them in their work. And I wouldn't want to be in their place. However, there are some points, such as the one with the elderly in the seventy-four years. I read from the inside the argument - and, if possible, ladies and gentlemen, this is a political argument - of the Government: 'Subject to subsistence of services, the elderly must not give way'. I'm not going to like it, when I get to that age, to walk, because I'm going to understand that I'm no longer weak and I don't have the reflexes that are needed. But are we going to let an old man, with his grandchildren, without driving through, be on the Greek streets just so that we don't put him in a painful process? Is this another country in the European Union? One realizes that his mentality gives him strength when he has a diploma. A friend tells me the other day: That's a very good bill, because if you take the car from my father, you take his whole life and he won't give any tests. It is not an argument, however, against a culture, in a treatment that we want to give our children, to say that the elderly, because of subsistence of services, will not pass tests on. If that's possible! Let's go to the so-called pigs, in the quadruples. Because I have been driving too many years of two-wheeled, normally those driving two-wheeled should be subsidised because I was helping to decongested traffic. But four-wheeled pigs are another procedure. It does not mean that because you drive a two-wheel, you will also drive a 'pig'. He wants another process that I know very well. That's where he wants attention. We fly the ball to the municipalities, to the local government, to see if it allows some streets to run because they pay traffic charges. Is that what this is about? Only because they're paying traffic fees, are we gonna let them drive on the streets? As far as vehicles circulating in enclosed areas are concerned, workers will not enter a procedure in order to obtain a special certificate - good sounds - so that they do not get too many obstacles to obtaining a licence. But drive a clark in a closed space. It must be a driver's skill, because there is a risk of serious accidents being made at work, as has been done in the past. There are many points. With regard to the way in which the bill is examined, it moves like educational vehicles. These vehicles have the clutch, brake and gas and, on the other hand, the teacher has only the clutch and the brake. So it must be a bill, which yes it will help people get out of this stagnation, but we have a bill in the form of nine months' gestation, and once nine months have passed, we will go with what the Commission is protecting, it is soothing. For in Greece there is the other saying that 'no more permanent'. That's what I'm afraid of. For forest maps, which have not yet been established, I think we agree with the extension given, in order to allow some people to object. For the OTAs, I and the Greek Solution told you: It's a great school, self-government, and it wants attention. It can't be within a few 24 hours that other issues come in order to determine what mistakes have been made. There is again centralisation of powers in a mayor, who will have unlimited authority. We need to change, you know, and the title. Cleisthenes had done the triplets. He had given the municipality a larger entity than the Pentacosia Parliament. In other words, the House was preparing issues that were discussed in the municipality. That's what Cleisthenes did. You do the opposite. At least to change the name of Cleisthenes with the fifty tribes he had made in the Mesogeia, the bourgeois and the plain, and he had given this possibility. Let's go a little quick, because I don't have time, Mr. President, in the tourist accommodations. It is what I say, 'No more permanent than temporary'. So, someone's presenting, injecting the file, and it's over? He said the Minister was not going to get permission, but I'm very afraid of what would happen. As far as sports clubs are concerned, a statute could come out which says what the law is, what the non-legal ones are. Because I know that athletes like Korakaki - I have Matina Sotiria in Serres, a world class athlete - have no place to train. Couldn't a booze come out - just like that, to the catapult - with which unions meet the obligations and who doesn't, to get the moleculum? And finally, for emissions of pollutants from cars, give people guarantees of going to a new fleet of cars. Put the measure of retirement. Lower the registration fee. There are ways. And, finally, because the Prime Minister also raised the issue of German allowances - as I read a little while ago -, as Greek Solution we say not only compensation from the Germans, but there are also the stolen ones taken by Bulgarians from monasteries in northern Greece, such as the Timios Prodromos and the Twenty-Sixteen, to make a step back because they are ours. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u345	My colleague from New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Lazarus Tsavdaridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the past one and a half months New Democracy has shown a lot of work, commitment and credibility, what it means to the citizen, what it means to recognise and deal with issues that were afflicting his daily lives. Today we are discussing another aspect of this pleasant, new reality with a draft law by the Ministry of Infrastructure which comes to give a direct solution to the suffering of a hundred and five thousand candidates and more, as well as the deadlock of the schools of drivers and thousands of older citizens who want to renew their diplomas. But why is it a dead end? Quite simply because the previous government of SYRIZA voted six months ago in favour of Law 4599/2019, since the previous leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport did not agree to go even further than the adoption of a regulatory act of the twenty-six anticipated law, a law which not only solved problems but created even more in the process of issuing driving licences. What are these problems? First, no candidate driver examinations have been carried out since October 2018, so that citizens cannot serve their needs and, in particular, the candidate drivers of the professional categories that are subject to this profession. Secondly, despite the fact that SYRIZA provided for the creation of specially designed spaces for special tests - backsliding and parking - such sites were not found throughout Greece, and even in the areas where the examinations were found, the waiting for the examinations was so great, resulting in a dramatic drop in the quality of the examinations. Thirdly, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport does not have the necessary equipment - cameras for monitoring - in order to implement the provisions it has adopted. Fourthly, trainers refuse to make their training vehicles available without their presence. It makes perfect sense to think that in the immediate event of an accident, insurance companies do not cover them if they do not accompany the trainee. Fifth, the SYRIZA Act forced candidate drivers to proceed at their own expense with compulsory individual insurance in order to give examinations. As a result, major problems arose, as insurance companies initially refused to grant such insurance premiums, and then individual insurance of candidate drivers were granted at huge cost, such as EUR 120 for a half-hour examination, when the same amount covers annual insurance. At the same time, the benefits of applying the current law not only brought the owners of the driver schools to an economic stalemate and their employees, but they caused huge anomaly in the functioning of the appropriate transport services, which, by the application of the law, were called on within hours to refrain from their duties within the services. As a consequence it was the inappropriate service of car dealers, private individuals, free traders and public lorries owners, especially in a prefecture such as Imathia, which is a great transport hub especially for agricultural production. These on SYRIZA's planet, on the planet where every solution has its own problem. But, as it is understandable, this framework cannot continue to exist an hour. That is why the New Democracy is coming, not to dismantle the law, as the Accuracy Anti-Civilization unnecessarily cries, but to abolish certain provisions that have brought thousands of citizens hostage, mainly professional drivers. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the settlement of the issue of driving licences, the New Democracy Government proves that it is a track driver, who knows not only to hold the steering wheel firmly and effectively, but also that it has now lit the green light for the return of the country and its citizens to normality, labour and common sense, the lack of which... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't bother, gentlemen of SYRIZA! Don't bother! Fortunately, for Greek citizens, the country is returning to normality, labour and common sense, the lack of which has so much cost the country over recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u347	Mr. Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, at the beginning of and until the end of my position, to highlight various myths that I have heard in this Chamber - although the New Democracy colleagues will be particularly saddened - for both the procedure and the substance of the bill and the amendments. I am starting from the latter not for any other reason, but because one amendment relates to the National Information Service. And because you have information and "True Group", to put some things in place. For the database you have as information and because we are talking about the National Intelligence Service, Mr. Rubatis has PhD from John Hopkins University in America - one of the best universities in the world - recognized by the judiciary. I wonder why many of you who don't know about it, you're friends with Mr. Rubbipail for years now. And now, Mr Gerapetritis - the concern we had when we said that many are gatherings to the Prime Minister as responsibilities - in conjunction with the final state and with the fact that the PPE is in the office of the Prime Minister and with this regulation, we would like to suggest you - because we have been saying so since then that you have been trying to reconstitute the State of Right - to rename the PPE into a CFP, so that there is a regularity like the one you want to bring, so that the Greek people can understand what is going to happen. I wonder - why did I hear it before the rapporteur of Mera25 - with the following: Will the NSA make a contract with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do its job? Are we serious? Memorandum of cooperation? What's undercover? Let's go to the other myths. They have been sufficiently developed by the SYRIZA Members, by our parliamentary representative and by the rapporteur. However, I will insist that I speak on two issues in relation to the procedure. One is the rules of good law. These are just to be invoked by the government. You are blaming us that we did not consult - and we are going to show it later - on the bill, and there is no consultation report here. Who did the government consult and bring this bill? The second concerns the amendments made by the Ministry of Interior. Changes what was voted last week. It's an amazing process of good lawmaking! It degrades municipal councils and relocates powers to the Economic Committee. But we go to the main theme of the Transport Ministry and the myths we hear about the emergency. We have also asked the committee, because what we are hearing is a pretext. They say the law does not apply. So we asked which regions do not carry out tests. We didn't get an answer. When are you going to answer that? After the bill was passed? Why didn't you answer that? And you don't answer, because exams are given everywhere except some services, which could be three, four. However, you have to ask your district managers why they are not done in these three, four, and are done in the others. Two... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I have not spoken for four minutes, and I would really ask for your tolerance, because I served in this ministry and it will be constructive to provide information that I will give Parliament and the Greek people. I'll take time from Mr. Famell, if you agree. So the answer is: there are no pistes. But it is foreseen in the draft law - in law now - that where there are no trails, examinations are carried out on the streets. You're saying there's no electronic system in the Ministry. But it is foreseen that the computer files will be kept until the electronic system becomes the Ministry. You're saying there's a hundred thousand emptys left. The President of Parliament said eighty thousand. The flagship of the newspapers of New Democracy leaked and wrote a hundred and fifty thousand. You don't know what the number is. Why? There's the electronic system at the Ministry. We ask you: How many of these applications are new licences, how many professional, how many for renewing the seventy-four above? You don't say it because you know that more than seventy-four until they've been examined have been extended. It's not a hundred thousand. There's an electronic system. Why don't you just bring us the evidence? Because all these years you have been doing committees, and you have done nothing - Mr Papadopoulos said so before - to see what you have done so far: the over seventy-four have been squandered by the agencies and everyone else, because some have closed their eyes. You're saying we didn't consult. I shall table the positions of the WTO, Mr Helios. I will testify when they did their own, if you want, announcements in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, of Mr. Gritzalis, because it is not just Mr. Helios who is controlled. There are others in the federation that are controlled. I'm filing them for the Minister to be informed. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Mr. Kalyvas at the committee of Parliament in 2017 said the same. So what did he say? Body of examiners, start examination at a fixed time, early examinations, examinations in two phases, etc. These are the articles that you are abolishing, Minister. It's one, two, three, four, five, eight and nine. It's the articles that you're abolishing and extinguishing what your adviser, Mr. Heliodis, proposes. Today, therefore, Mr Helios, while asking for these, celebrates where he abolishes them. Why? Because, he says, the licenses are cumulated. Yes, sir. Oh, no. For some have sabotaged the implementation of the draft law and sabotaged it, because some have closed their eyes to the fact that the law will not be implemented. The Undersecretary, Mr. Kefaliannis, did not make a potato, who said he was his counselor. Mr. Kefaliannis doesn't say so. Mr. Helios says so himself. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I would therefore like to say, from Mr Helios's page, how he defines himself as the President of the WTO, the Board of Directors of GSEVE, the Road Safety Adviser of the Transport Sector of New Democracy, Constantine Karamanlis, and his partner, Mr Patulis. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] On the 7th of July, Mr. Helios got this out here. Rejoice! "The Minister is gone, Helios is left." And he took it out of the site New Democracy centrally, Piraeus 62. Congratulations. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have fought to break circuits.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u349	Finish it, Mr. Spirtzi. You've exceeded time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u350	I took time from Mr. Famello.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u351	No, you do not change the Rules of Procedure, nor do you manage a procedure. Please hang up. After that, close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u352	I'm inconvenience! So I will say what we did in Corfu, Piraeus, Elefsina, with the circuits in the southern Athens sector, which are both Mr. Helios and the others. There are, however, driver schools and federations that you have not bothered to invite them to the committee, which people do not want to make their bread like this, with black money, or any examiners who want to take it. There are others. Minister, road safety issues are an area that we all owe, the whole political system, the players, the society, to fight together, to convene. Unfortunately, in the way this draft law is handled, you confirm that a neoliberal, reformist government, as you say, returns to the traditional old-fashioned decades of right even in road safety issues. Return to yesterday, and Mr Helios himself says: "When you have to do with serious political leadership that respects the citizen and the professional as ministers - I do not want to name - '...four in four in less than two months'. 'The normality has come' - says Mr Helios - '...in the lives of the seventy-four years of plus'. ‘Extension for one year and economic benefit for the citizens. Suspension of Law 4599. The creation of a small-scale flexible committee with participation of our industry." "And we continue..." - says Mr. Heliodis - "with circulars that will simply clarify the subject, functionally..." by what you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u353	Shut up, Mr. Spirtzi. You doubled the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u354	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u355	You're done and thank you very much. Mr Janakopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u356	Minister, we managed to break circuits...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u357	Good. Good. You've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u358	When someone serves at the Ministry of Transport, he wonders if he has...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u359	Don't make it any more difficult for us, Mr. Spirtzi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u360	Please, Mr President, I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u361	You've said seven, eight times that you're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u362	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u363	You're closed, Mr. Spirtzi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u364	You're all referring to me and I haven't interrupted one! So when you've served or served at the Transport Ministry and you have the slightest, elementary sensitivity, you think about what you should have done when a child is killed when you have a fatal accident. You, indeed, when you would come back not to the normality of old-fashioned communism, but to finding convergences about road safety...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u365	Excuse me, Mr. Spirtzi, but now I don't know how I should interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u366	...we'll be here to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u367	Well, that can't be. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet! Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, as long as time allowed, we have had a debate on the amendment tabled to change the terms, conditions and qualifications for the appointment of the Director of the NRA. For our part, for SYRIZA, we have called on the government to withdraw this shameful, unacceptable, scandalous amendment, for which the Prime Minister is entirely responsible. It seems that the government has decided not to withdraw and complete this scandal by silence or by continuing its support for the amendment. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We therefore have to, Mr President, instead of selecting the solution to the withdrawal and leaving the New Democracy alone to decide, firstly, that Parliament with the responsibility of the government and the majority is degenerating every day more and more. At the moment we have already left three parliamentary parties. For our part, we are not prepared to do so, at least at this stage, and given that it seems that the government does not understand any departures. We left one, we left two, and the government doesn't seem to mind. We will therefore submit a request for a roll-call vote. We call for the roll-call vote on the amendment to the SPS commander, as is well-established parliamentary practice, to be set until tomorrow morning or Monday morning so that all Members can be informed and come here. I say to you: this was the practice followed by the previous Parliament and I think it is a well-established parliamentary and democratic practice. From there, listen. Don't be afraid. I'll tell you. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't be embarrassed. Your embarrassment has been apparent for too long. So I say to you this: since, apparently, you are not prepared to put this democratic demand into practice, which, in my opinion, is a democratic obligation and a sign of respect for Parliament, I will tell you that you will take one by one and the hundred and fifty eight - we will see whether it will be fifty-eight - the responsibility for this scandalous amendment. Mr. Mitsotakis won't take responsibility alone. The prime scandal will also have accomplices and these accomplices will be you, one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u369	Once the request for a roll-call vote has been received, the Bureau will be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u371	Here, Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. As the process is slowly completed, I am taking the floor to say about the legislative technique to which Mr Voridis referred earlier that it is of course accepted. There is also a legislative improvement in Article 10. the words ‘In case of a matching isotope’ shall be replaced by ‘In case of a tie between the first two combinations’. I say this to be recorded in the Minutes. As far as the essence of my position is concerned, I'll do it at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Sedetakis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today seeks to correct an unfavourable situation that has arisen by the previous government at the expense of our fellow citizens, at the expense of professionals and at the expense of third-age citizens. The Left Government, which is supposed to be cutting off for equality of citizens, has implemented a discrimination policy against our older fellow citizens. Without criteria, without anywhere else in Europe, this example has arbitrarily discovered that people over seventy-five years of age cannot drive and because they are not capable of being re-examined in order to renew their driving licence. Only they legislated something that was not based on any scientific study. For example, no research exists to indicate that drivers of some age cause traffic accidents or accidents. I will invoke your example here, which you have said is in progress, because I hear you. In Australia and Denmark you said that the studies are ongoing. We have no evidence and we will, of course, wait for this information to be put into the law that is to come, but at the moment, unless you anticipate the future - something that is a little difficult, because today you are where you are - and you were able to put this information into your legislation. So they did it in a rough way, without organisation and care, so that all these people are troubled and - most importantly - feel like citizens of the second category. Even worse, as citizens of the second category, they were exploited by those who took advantage of the sloppiness of the law to offer their supposedly good services, of course. The government is today legislating to restore this injustice. With Article 1 we are going back to the former regime in order to normalise the situation. Of course, here we are not saying that everything is going well. We recognise that there is a question of training and examination of candidate drivers. We all know and recognize the importance of education in dealing with the scourge of wheels affecting our country and especially Crete at the moment when it has taken dimensions of an undeclared war. But this is of course a matter for all of us. We're not discriminatory. The previous government with Law 4599/2019 attempted to reform the education and examination framework. You said you solved the problem. No problem is solved. Obviously this was to tackle the problem, not to do what is causing the problems. You stopped giving diplomas. You have not solved any problems, with hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens being unable to take a driving licence. This problem is solved by this bill. It is not possible for the state to pay for it with suffering. This is where I want to address the government. And I want to say here, Minister, that we have to prove that we do not have the same practices and that we are here to do better. We've set a nine-month schedule for the program. I would like, please, Minister, to keep up with the timetable, because the problem is a big one. Mr Ex-Secretary, this whole debate that took place within the committee did not raise the question of the bill to come. That's where we want your criticism. That's where you'll see a lot of things that you might have had. Then I want your criticism. Then tell us whether we are serving these interests and then see, since the diplomas are produced, whether we are really solving the problem. So until the Committee, Minister, reaches the new framework, candidate drivers will be given a driving licence with the former regime. For us it is fundamentally respectful to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that SYRIZA has applied for a roll-call vote. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative was asked to vote tomorrow or Monday. The bill, I repeat, is urgent. So the vote cannot take place tomorrow or Monday, because there are deadlines, as has been explained. I also want to tell you that there is no prior postponement of a roll-call vote in an urgent bill. There are other bills under the ordinary procedure, but not as it has been done now, but after consultation of the secretaries of the parliamentary groups. There's a colleague left to talk to from SYRIZA, I think Mr. Famelos. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese, has been left to speak and the Deputy Minister, Mr Kefaloyannis, should be closed. Therefore, in view of these loose ends, the time needed to make the roll-call vote and to have a short margin is at 18:30 this afternoon. The request for a roll-call vote was therefore received. We will continue the process if we have three colleagues with the distinctive qualities of each and one hour from now, at 18:30, the roll-call vote requested by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will take place. In other words, at 18:30, we are going to give the names for the necessary statement of the presence of at least fifteen Members. Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, you will allow me, Mr Kefaloniann, first of all, to refer to the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetti. You did it, Mr. Gerapitris. Ultimately, the state. Let's get them in order. We have a bill that was tabled without consultation and without a consultation report. A bill that was filed without the signature of a competent Minister of Justice and with an irresponsible retreat, withdrawing the article from the committee. Nice performance. I have to admit, too. I'm glad to meet you, Mr. Gerapitris. I imagine you're having a great time! It's a bill submitted 11 hours before the committee. A bill, which was filed and discussed in a committee that was an informal minister of the Minister in his statement, but which represented professional interests related to the bill and involved in a judicial procedure. All right, Mr. Gerapititi, you're checking on the ministers. You've done great! And the culmination - 'pentacle' - is that there is an amendment from the window to have a commander in the NDP without a degree. And Mr Gerapettitis tells us to respect the national bodies. How do you respect it, Mr. Gerapetritis, in contrast to the Prime Minister's statement here at the Step of the House, by putting a man with an ex post amendment without a degree in the EEA? Is that respect for national security? You're harming national security, Mr. Gerapititi. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this choice of democracy really runs counter to the interests of national security, because it also affects us abroad. They will laugh at what you are doing abroad, and indeed about a country that needs to be strong and developmental and democratic and productive. The only problem New Democracy has, however, is that an allergy with democracy is catching it. You don't like normal procedures, you don't like consultation, transparency, you don't like a degree. That's a nice message we're giving to the kids who entered the university this week, a very nice message, Mr. Gerapetti. Your students when you go back to university - and I wish you could go quickly - tell them that exactly, that they deserve to study so that they never do anything to an important body in our country. This is the normality of the New Democracy, nothing to do with democracy, but Europe, with the European acquis. This is a serious issue that we need to address. Let's look at two more specific articles. An article in the bill from New Democracy on the exploitation of the surplus of EMCDDA is under way. First theme, why does the EMFF have a surplus? No, of course not because you gave him. Mr rapporteur, 800 million had left a deficit in the RES account leaving the Samara - Venizelos Government. It has a surplus of 180 million, because there was a government that respected Greeks and their troubles. What was the purpose of this surplus? Firstly, to pay for the investments of renewable energy sources and, secondly, to reduce the cost of electricity. And what does the moderate, liberal, Mr. Hatzidakis do now? It comes to increase the price of electricity, consuming a surplus of the work of the Greeks, the work within a memorandum and cuts. Now that we do not have to have such hard cuts you consume surpluses, that is, you eat from the ready, and at the same time you also create other increases that are hidden behind the reduction in VAT, which we have again managed to do. A benefit of between 200 and 300 million is cut from society and charged to EUR 500 million from the increase in electricity prices. And don't lie that the citizen won't feel it. 5% of the discount reduction will feel it directly, all households will feel it. And all professionals in our country, all small and medium-sized enterprises, all traders and all craftsmen will have a direct footprint of at least 12% increase in energy costs in their accounting books and production costs. You soon proved how much you love middle class. Very quickly, increasing in a month 12% energy costs for all small and medium-sized production in Greece and then you say that you will bring growth and jobs. Indeed, you do not only at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises, but you also close the eye on all private alternative providers who have 25% of the market, because they can increase the price of electricity without eating a single euro in investments and new jobs. Nice entrepreneurship, so you imagine it, raise private investment profits without putting money on investment and not putting money on work. The last episode, however, in PPC’s work is the examination. Because you obviously have a very high social cost of all that society learns about its unnecessarily charged EUR 500 million, obviously Mr Gerapeitris and Mr Hatzidakis indirectly remembered the examination. Clean sky lightnings aren't afraid, Mr. Gerapitri. No relationship is obviously unrelated to the profile of the liberal and the center you're taking out. You do not have it, it is false, because the substance is this criminalised dimension of the policy that the Right always has, which wants to criminalise its political opponent, who cannot tolerate the existence of PPC's administration that was able to reduce the stream, not to sell any energy, not to sell networks, to apply social invoices and to design a perspective with renewable energy sources, for that is why we are apologizing and that is why we are being judged. No unit was sold. The network wasn't sold. The cost of electricity decreased. You, as soon as you're here, manoe, raise 500 million electricity costs, and you're about to sell units by making profits for private individuals. This is the extreme neoliberal and conservative profile, which is now cleared in society. And lastly, Mr President, and I will conclude, a comment on the ELDR article. I have heard the Deputy Minister Livano in committee say that the government does not intervene in how the compensatorys are used and gives this right to the municipalities. You said that, Mr. Undersecretary. In other words, the government does not have the political responsibility to protect citizens so that compensatory investments are invested for the environment, to leave policy and to allow municipalities to make use of a compensatory resource which is just an environmental burden. Good ministries, Mr. Levanie! If you are going to leave politics, ignore the needs of the citizens, do not take care of the environment, then that is not the Ministry of Interior, this is the "Ministry of Settlement". Because that's what they do with the FLOWS. They arrange, by abolishing accreditation acts of the Secretaries of the Decentralised Administrations, the Coordinators, without any legality problem. Which acts I must remind you that with Law 4555 they are based on votes of municipal councils expressing 80% of the citizens. In other words, they ignore decisions expressing 80% of the citizens and abolishing them retrospectively. That is a very good view of democracy, Mr Levanie! We still haven't learned, however, why no one knew - and I asked the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy to tell me - what the credentials you're abolishing are? Why have you not dared to tell them here in the Greek Parliament? What are the deletion operations already taken? And let the Greek MPs know which bodies they are preparing to become aalum. Where's the litter party? Tell us! Where do you abolish institutions with this article, which you have created? It is very simple, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The government states by means of the bill that it will eat from the work and work of the Greek citizens that it will make up 500 million Greek citizens for the current, that it will withdraw from the control of the environment that has to be exercised by law, that it will also let parties to self-government and that it will abolish democratic decisions of selfgovernment. This is the real accomplishment, a "occupational", hard right state of the 1960 ’ s! Rejoice!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u377	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u378	He asked for the floor for a reply. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Gerapetiti.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u379	But please don't interrupt me this time. Because, as you have seen, respect presupposes, when the speaker is in Step or buying, that he does not sound under a mob. And that was what the side of the Chamber kept here and not the other side.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u380	I don't think so! You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u381	I've been interrupted by a lot of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u382	See? That was a simple test to confirm. It wasn't anything different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u383	When you address us, we will address you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u384	When the speaker is in Stepma, you must show a tolerance, even if things are not pleasant. And I'm on my way... First of all, if we think that the fact - because this is a fact - that the profits of 90 million were made at 600 million are not a problem, let us not look into it. If anyone thinks that the stock market value, which was at 1.9 billion and is today at 0.3 billion, is not to investigate it, let us not look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u385	Was IPTO in?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u386	Let us assume that we should, if anything, seek some responsibility towards the Greek people. And, in any case, I know that I am not going to talk about what is happening in the past, but not that we are making the committees of inquiry a political weapon. Because I consider this to be a reminder, based on the fact that it has happened in the past in relation to the right and the wrong. And let's remember Mr. Pikramenos a little. Question two: Let's read the U.S. layout a little bit. The degree is not removed. Let's read it a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u387	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u388	What do you think? We're not good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, he has a right to his views and you are not entitled to interrupt him. I invite you to think about the originality you're not interrupting!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u390	You're pretending to be the bourgeois!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u391	Come on, Mr. Gerapitris, keep going. We'll make it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u392	He wants a job to make it! And say a third, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u393	Keep the caterpillar down. It's getting lower!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u394	There goes another one down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Janakopoulos, you're probably not used to a debate with arguments. It's just things. And to close by saying this because he appreciated me, rather ironically, and he applauded Mr. Janakopoulos, that he wished me to return quickly to the university. I have a job to return that is an honor for the country!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u396	Why, we don't have a job?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u397	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u398	Your stress seems!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u399	You've lost your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u400	Please, the Parliamentary spokesman of New Democracy, Spelion Lebanese, Member of Parliament, is here to speak for ten minutes, and the list of parliamentary representatives is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be calmer now that the tons fall, although it is not easy after all this debate that took place here today and places them. Mr. Janakopoulos, you threatened us again, third time today...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u402	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u403	You, with the exam. You showed us with your finger and told us we'd come one by one and the hundred and fifty-eight to vote for this oath...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u404	What exam? You mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u405	The denomination, I'm sorry. We shall therefore come to the roll-call vote one by one. I don't know if you, who's been on the phone all day, were able to collect the ones you needed to testify on the denomination and see how many of you would be here to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u406	Now what is this? Smart?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u407	It's the answer to what you said so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u408	You have a degree and you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u409	Yes, but at some point you who invoke the Rules of Procedure must keep him to become apostostic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u410	Do not address me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u411	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u412	You won't tell us, Mr. Janakopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u413	I suggest ways to become apostostic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u414	Let go, Mr. President. I'll be my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u415	Well, Mr. Levane, you're addressing this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u416	I shall turn to this House. So both Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Ragus - we see it again - have not been satisfied with their new roles. They consider that they are still governmental, that they will designate the country as they have done in recent years and that they will even direct the debate and tell us what is democratic and what is not. They want to be someone else. They'll have to wait. You're not in that position yet. Expose and you will continue to be exposed. With regard to the lies you bring back and bring back, it is well known and I think that the traditional goat will also laugh if you come to tell us that we lie to the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. There's been a lot of talk about the NSA. What you did not even understand after all this debate is that you should not continue to talk about the NSA in this Chamber in this stubborn way. You talked about retrospectiveness. It's not true. You talked about qualifications. It's not true. We insist that this provision is good. We insist that what matters to the Commander of the EUPM is his administrative capacity. And we insist that the service capabilities of the relevant EUPM Commander are the reason and criteria we must judge him. As far as Mr Rubbai is concerned, no one from the governmental majority of the New Democracy now, nor in the past from the other governments made any comment, regardless of whether the degrees were recognized or not, regardless of whether there might be failures or not. In any case, these criteria never entered the debate and never dropped the level so low when we were talking about the PPE. You're calling us ironically to rename it because we're resuscitating the state of the right. You're just not serious. I'm telling you to register it. As far as the urgent procedure is concerned, I think it has been overtaken, and we have discussed it. You understand why these bills come in the form of emergency. Forty-five days you have brought your first bill, when you were preparing so much for the previous government through the election of the President of the Republic. You have left behind a chaos which the government is forced to cover with various provisions which it brings to an emergency indeed draft laws. And as we have said, we accept the position of the Government representative, who told us that this would not be normality. In this context, the main priority that our Government has is to change the situation of the country from where you left it. And I will not list what has happened in Greece in this short period of time. I'm not going to record them again from this Step now. But you realise that the Greek people have understood it, that allies abroad have understood it, that markets abroad and abroad have understood it. The only ones who have not understood what is going on in this country - and continue to place you in the way you were placed today - are you. The Prime Minister of the country was right to choose, as all the Prime Ministers traditionally do, to visit Cyprus first and foremost and then France and Germany. We are proud of his logic, his policy and his positions. We are proud, too, of how he has behaved, what he has analysed there and how the climate has changed. Mr Velopoulos just now denounced us and also accused us - because he follows your example - that he did not raise all national issues and that his behaviour was not what he should have been. It is precisely the attitude we would like from a responsible and serious Prime Minister. On the right lines, he raised all these national issues. And the good thing here - which we did not achieve in the past few years - is that it also received consensus on our burning national issues today. You came and you were ironic to us a moment ago - he was a Member of the opposition - that with this logic the government governs will laugh abroad. It hasn't been a couple of months since we became a junkie with Mr. Tsipras' presence abroad. And not only did the others laugh at us - with Greece laughing on his face - but we were all here crying about it. So, once again, I will tell you that 'the house of the hanged man is not talking about rope'. As far as PPC is concerned, precisely these urgent problems that you left us behind are coming to resolve. You said nothing about the substance of the matter. You didn't tell us what your plan was. You didn't tell us, if you were government by September 24th, what would you do if the sworn accountant got out of the report and said there was a problem with PPC? You did not tell us how you would deal with the bankruptcy of this company, which, as you can see - if you understand it - would cause a great deal of trouble for the banks that have borrowed it and, of course, a great problem for the entire economy in the country, because it is one of its main pillars. He said before one of your executives that debts are accountable, as if they were accountable is not debts. These are unprecedented and unprecedented things, which you are saying! Obviously, even though you ruled four to four and a half years, you still don't understand what's going on. So for the record alone - to understand once again the Greek people as well because you do not have the right to complain, but you simply have to apologize for the issue of PPC - to repeat the numbers. Profit in 2014 was 90 million. In 2018, the damage was 903 million. In 2014, the market value was 1,9 billion. And in July 2019 it was 300 million. Your dues have doubled and your responsibilities are absolute. You said you didn't sell the units because you were supposed to be nationally proud. You couldn't sell them because you just deceived them! The rejection of the "little PPC" project cost 2 billion. Then the Samara government had arranged that these 2 billion should not go to debt, as they should, and go to PPC's funds. That's all you lost. At the same time, there you could not do any more - you gave 40% of the market - that is, from 90% you went to 50% - for free! And that's all you're not talking about. The NOME 600 million in favour of individuals on SYRIZA, too, do not mention them. For all this, then - which can lead one to conclude that you really want to serve the great interests and others, a little more naive and mild, that you just don't know how to govern the country - we will just be looking for responsibilities. And we are glad that your representative has said that he is happy to accept the investigation into the PPC issue, but we would like to see it, not because we are curious, but because the Greek people also understand what happened with this major issue for our economy. In order not to abuse the time, I will not talk about the bill, which has been discussed a lot, but I would just like to make a little point about this, which you have insisted on with Mr Helios. Mr. Heliodis is not a government adviser and he is not a minister. It's over and out. All the other things - I see them here yet, photographs from Mr Spirtzi have been left - are just an attempt to draw your opposition to the conflict and to create impressions precisely because you have no arguments to deal with our policy. Finally, in order to come a little more serious and to feel what Greek citizens think out there - let us leave all these clashes - does our political system not have the capacity to build a way, a system that gives diplomas? Should we be fighting about everything? So giving on time too and not a hundred thousand people without a diploma is a matter right or left? You will try - and you must try - to follow the logic of this government, to understand that politics wants effectiveness and not a vacant rhetoric and to come to the new reality which - we all realize - is very difficult for you. In conclusion, I would like to say that every government, like any man who does and has so much to do, will obviously make mistakes. At this stage we are seeing a government that is rushing, achieves things - which had not been done in the past few years - in a few days, makes us proud and gives us another chance for Greek citizens to feel too, once after ten years of proud. The Prime Minister has said a phrase that you, too, should remember. Yesterday in Germany he said: 'The changes will be made by us because they concern us primarily with a restructuring plan of ours.' It does not have the obligation of our government and Mr Mitsotakis to do the fucked-up things you have done, because we really believe in this reform policy, we really believe in the country's change of course. We therefore call on you - and I wish you at least the next bill to be in this direction - to stop the irresponsible, denouncing, structural, gossip-bolist opposition and to come into a modern and creative dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u417	The debate will end with the placement of the State Secretary, Mr. Kefaliannis. However, the Secretary of State for Home Affairs, Mr Lebanon, has previously asked for the floor, apparently because there was a reference to him. Mr. Lebanon, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't mean to take the floor, just Mr. Famelou's report made me say a few things and I'll say two words. Firstly, the device that comes for the reward, the FLOWER, is a reset of a set-up of 2013. It was a passive law, Law 4164/2013. This law is being brought back and this law will now be in place, as one of the many incredible things that have been done with "KLITHENH" was to tie hand and municipalities to their money as they want. But I heard this amazing, the state telling the municipalities what to do, how to invest them. Is that the self-government you want? Honestly, is that for you self-government? The central state decides what projects each mayor will do? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] In any case, I say this and I believe that it is an inalienable right for the mayor and the mayor and for every regional mayor, regardless of his origin, to decide what money he receives in the context of legality, and that is why he will be judged at the end of the day. We're not going to let her fall apart. We won't let her be tied to the state, we have another plan for self-government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u419	We saw it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u420	Of course you did. And you'll see it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u421	And for the environment, too, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u422	In conclusion, I would like to say that exactly the same thing you went to do with the FODs. Handles, no questions, no consultation to join, no planning. What's the result? We risk having a serious problem with garbage, which everyone recognises. Uh, we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u423	What credentials are abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr. Livano. Please take the floor, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, for the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in committee, we are not here to have a trial of intent, but those who are concerned with politics, of course, are judged of the effectiveness, of our actions or our omissions. This draft law, in fact, comes to cover a major incompetence, a blockade, as I said in the committee, of the previous government, because we have come before a large social issue, a very big social problem, where more than 100 000 of our fellow citizens are responsible - I would say - and the previous government - I will explain the reasons - cannot, in fact, get their diplomas. And when we talk about fellow citizens who can't get their diploma, we're talking about people who have found a job and they need the car for a tool to work. We are talking about professionals, to whom it is essential, in fact, for this specific diploma. You are also aware of the major social problems that are created. Many of the interlocutors, previously, referred to a number of reasons why this law was inappropriate. Among these, the main reason is that twenty-six regulatory acts should have been adopted by the prior leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. In fact, in the past five months, during the course of the elections, there has been no time or mood for a single regulatory act to be adopted. In fact, the former Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has whispered something in committee. We were - he says - in an election period. From February to July we were in a pre-election period and the man, who, as we saw at the Ministry, issued the circulars and the ministerial decisions more quickly and of a photocopying machine, was unable to issue one of the twenty-six ministerial decisions required in order for this law to come into force. And you come today hypocritically from the Opposition to tell us that we are to blame on this issue. I heard the former Minister say that it was actually some people who sabotaged us. He confessed that for five months there has been this hurricanes, because some - allegedly - were blocking the adoption of a ministerial decision. Who? Was he in his office? Was he out of the office? He has to tell us. Let me say that he had issued two, three, five ministerial decisions and could not adopt the other twenty, to understand it. But not one of the twenty-six regulatory acts that had to be adopted under the law had not been adopted by Mr Spirtzi. So we have to stop this hypocrisy sometime. As I pointed out in committee, here we are not coming to take out any law. In particular, we are abolishing provisions that have created these problems. I'll just make one report. For example, one of the provisions of the law, which is not repealed, is Article 17, which refers to the College of Auditors of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which is responsible for making controls. And that is an answer to whether or not there will be transparency. Of course, we realise that there are problems with the current regime. That's why we're saying we're not going into the former regime. That is why we are enacting this committee, which, in a binding time-limit, can also have such a conclusion so that all the wings of this House can actually - I hope - once I have completed the task of saying that a proper project has actually been done. As I also said in committee, of course many of the proposals, which were before us, will be adopted. Of course, many of the provisions which have unfortunately not been implemented for other reasons by the previous government and which are in this direction will be adopted. We do not come here with an equivalent logic. As far as transparency is concerned, of course, I should also like to remind you of something else that we have said in committee. In addition to the establishment of that committee, which will undertake this task, we have said that there will be an intensification, both on the part of the Greek police and on the control mechanisms of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and, of course, the drafting of the new law, following the work of the committee, will be carried out in cooperation with the Single Transparency Authority. In short, I should like to mention the reasons why the previous bill was, unfortunately, inapplicable. In fact, the tests of the candidate drivers have been stopped for too many months. The law, as other speakers have said, provided for certain specially designed spaces to make these special tests. Even at Attiki the only space there was is in Holargos, next to the Ministry. So you realize that a hundred and twenty to fifty people normally, if they accumulate in one day, it would be impossible not only to carry out tests and get the time right, but also substantial tests, as there was little time and unfortunately there was a sense that in two-three minutes we should finish the tests to get the diplomas and the one with the existing framework. A second reason to which other colleagues have referred is that in fact trainers refuse to make available their training vehicles, which were, of course, vehicles without their presence, because in the event of an accident, insurance companies did not cover this risk, since they did not accompany the trainee. There was also the obligation to provide insurance for candidate drivers individually, which had originally created the problem that insurance companies refused to grant insurance of this kind. And then, when they proceeded with this process, for a half-hour process, candidate drivers were asked to pay EUR 150 for cars and heavy vehicles, the sum was several times EUR 180 and EUR 200. If we followed SYRIZA's political logic, the SYRIZA's political chariot, one would say that this provision was made to favour insurance companies. But we don't do that thing. I say this in response to a fellow Member who spoke of a complication in committee. I would also remind the House that there was not really the necessary equipment in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to make the transmission of the examination in real time, nor, of course, the cameras. In fact, when the services were invited to tell me when this integration will exist, I was told that there is a competition in order to hire a technical consultant who would give the specifications to make a new tender in order to get the equipment, which you realise that with the Greek reality this would take two to three years. For two or three more years it would be in hostage tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. We have said before that that no one can claim the former regime has had no problems, which we too recognise. And, of course, it must be wondered whether, even in the way it worked these five or six months, this regime, the current one, there were issues or cases of corruption. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, that these have not only been reduced but have been increased. The reason for this is that many times there were some scientists who, precisely because of the dropping point, were willing to intercede in order to become faster or to get into these tests. And unfortunately it seemed that these corruption phenomena were not fought with the existing system either. As regards the setting-up of the committee which I have told you, on the basis of Article 2, this will of course draw up a new legislative framework for the examination of the candidate drivers, both theoretical and practical. And I would say to SYRIZA's colleagues that they should not be inclined, because the same thing was said about the Competition Authority, and once they saw the people who actually set up this committee, then a silence prevailed. So let me say, let us also see the faces that are going to enter this committee and there, of course, accept any positive criticism. However, beforehand, you must say that this committee may reintroduce a system that is corrupt or in the wrong direction, I would say that it is a shape earlier. As regards the medical control of the elderly, I have already told you - and I think many have agreed on various aspects of this House - that the secondary committees are indeed necessary. They are committees that have been abolished by the previous government. And if you want, I should also like to give you some interesting statistics, those secondary committees, that is, for over eighty years, in fact, just to say a little bit, cut 25% to 30%, unlike what is now happening, which is much less. So, in essence, we are going to tighten up the framework and not to what the Opposition tried to pass, that we are closing our eyes to some categories of fellow citizens. As regards, of course, the abolition of the universal ban on light and heavy four-wheel motor cycles - that is, the famous 'guinees' under 125 cubic centimeters - there is another paradox, ladies and gentlemen, which you may not know: at the moment we are talking about the current framework, over 125 cubic centimeters are allowed. That is, theoretically, the most dangerous vehicle, which is bigger cubicosis, is allowed and is not allowed under 125 cubic. In fact, when I asked Mr Spirtzi and Mrs Perka why they were forbidden, I was told that they had not actually received the type-approval of vehicles. I submit two vehicle type-approvals for similar vehicles with a forty-n cubic metres in order to see unfortunately that you were not properly informed. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] There are, therefore, authorisations, because we are talking about vehicles that have been approved, in accordance with European Union legislation, have been licensed and, of course, pay annual traffic charges. In any case, however, we also give the municipality or region concerned the opportunity, if it considers, in accordance with Article 52 of the Road Traffic Code, that it should place certain restrictions on this traffic - and, of course, no one will argue that it is the local authority that is best aware of the local needs and where this restriction may be introduced - we give the mayor or the district manager the opportunity to place these restrictions. As regards paragraph 2 of this Article, we in fact solve a problem that has been created for the traffic of vehicles moving within a closed space, i.e. only in ports and airports, where another paradox had been observed, that the same vehicle that was put into circulation before 12 October 2016, had been designated as a special tractor, and after that date had been designated as a project machine. So for the same - I repeat - it was just a vehicle that needed two different types of diplomas. We are actually doing a homogenisation, and I think we are solving a practical problem facing these workplaces. In the article on the abolition of the compulsory review of licence holders for over seventy-four years, I told the committee something - and indeed we had an exchange of arguments with the SYRIZA rapporteur - that there is no European Union country to look at these people, that is to say, over seventy-four years, but only medical examinations. My colleague mentioned Denmark. I put forward what is happening in Denmark for the record. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] What is true in Denmark is only medical examinations. What has happened so far, ladies and gentlemen? These fellow citizens had to visit the regional services four times. In other words, once again to testify to the documents, a second time to plan on the day they will be examined, a third time to get a paper which would say they have achieved a fourth time to get the driving licence. I also want to say that the number of this category of our fellow citizens is tens of thousands. So you realise that this is how we resolve another major social problem. But let us see what happened with the existing regime. That exam was subtle. In other words, they were put on a road of five hundred or eight hundred meters, which is why the rejected ones were too few. In fact, with statistics - and I am tabling it in the Minutes - by the Police Directorate, this category of fellow citizens is only responsible for 7% of the deadly traffic. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] So you realise that another of the bourgeois myths, that it allegedly creates more problems than it possibly corrects, I think it is being broken down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u426	It's not like that, it's not police evidence, studies have been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u427	I give you specific information, Mrs. Perka. So you realise that, with this issue in mind, harmonisation is taking place on the basis of what is - and I repeat - in every country of the European Union. Therefore, it may have to stop this specula, which was done in this Chamber, that we are supposedly going to restore a system that is contrary to the rules of good practice. This is true, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA - at least as far as we have searched - in the state of Oklahoma in the United States, perhaps in another country, but nowhere else in the European Union. From there on we will have all the time, and I think this committee will be open to hearing and having the views of the parties and, of course, the market operators, so that we can actually go to good legislation. Finally, Article 5 of the Regulations in fact continues to pay the monthly compensation of examiners, as the previous Government had rightly established, until 31 October and from 1 November 2019, in fact the payment of a new compensation - but the same amount - in order to carry out these examinations. Before addressing an issue concerning yesterday's committee meeting, which has been mentioned by many colleagues, I would simply like to give a very brief answer to Mr Spirtzi, who asked which regions are not being examined at the moment. There are no tests basically in Central Greece, Thessaloniki, Crete. In Attica, there's just as I told you, only the Cholargos race floor. So you realise that, at the moment in practice, most of the territory has become aware of the problems - they have already been mentioned - the examinations are unfortunately not being carried out and there is this great suffering. I will close, although I did not intend to do so, with an issue on which, indeed, a lot of Members have been mentioned and about which I would say a political exploitation yesterday. I do not happen to have any privileged information on justice, as Mr Janakopoulos has, to know who is accused and who is not accused. To accept what he says, however, as a given. Yesterday in committee, he was indeed the President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Driving Teachers. He wasn't an accident, someone passing by. It was an agency. And to see the hypocrisy of SYRIZA, just before Mr. Spirtz told us that with this man he consulted in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, and in the minutes he testified that in fact with the federation he consulted. When he referred to his presence, because it was not done either by my invitation or, of course, by some initial permission, I said that since he was a body, as was repeated on the SYRIZA government...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u428	Don't twist...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u429	You don't like it, but you'll hear the truth. I said that as it has been done on several occasions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u430	You're not talking to the rhetoric on the Step. You're listening to the rhetoric on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u431	You don't like these because you've twisted them. I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u432	Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u433	I said that since he represents a body, a federation, a primary union, since there is no problem with staying. But then he left the Chamber. From there on... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Well, not with my invitation and my approval. To close this issue, therefore, this man is neither my advisor nor the Ministry. So to stop her, she...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u434	But you were saying yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Barka, we meet in this Chamber. I think you're willing to use the exact...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Kefaliannis, please address this House as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u437	You are quite urging to adopt opinions and I am sorry, precisely because we all know each other well in this Chamber. In any case, I urge anyone, to see if this man has any formal or informal relationship with the Ministry, and then we can talk about it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u438	With the position of the Deputy Minister, Mr Kefaliannis, the list of speakers, namely rapporteurs, parliamentary representatives, party presidents and ministers, has been closed for this bill. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 299a]] He is calling for twenty-eight colleagues of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for a roll-call vote. We will be adjourned for ten minutes, and at 18.30, ladies and gentlemen, the names of the signatories will be given the name of the signatories, immediately after a roll-call vote will be taken, and then the other articles that have not been put down for roll-call vote will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u439	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is closed: 'Confidentiality of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for the roll-call vote of SYRIZA Members on Amendment 34/30-8-2019, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u440	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr Alexiadis Trev. Here you go. Mrs. Anagnostopoulos Sias. Here. Mrs. Evgiris Gifts. Here. Mrs. Ahchioglou Afe. Here. Mr. Bored George. Here you go. Mr. Vitsas Dimitris. Here you go. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. Here. Mr. Giolas Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Zachariadis Costas. Here you go. Mr. Kalamatian Dionysus. Here you go. Mrs. Kafantari Joy. Here. Mr. Mamulakis Harry. Here you go. Mr. Barcas Constantine. Here you go. Mrs. Notopoulou Katerina. Here. Mr. Blonde Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Xanthiopoulos Theophilus. Here you go. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. Here. Mr. Poppas Nikos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment number 34 and a special 4 of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in accordance with the provisions of Rules 72 and 72A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to accept this amendment. The non-acceptance of the amendment is said to be 'OH.' The voters say 'PARON'. Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy and Mrs Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA are on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that they have also come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, letters from fellow Members present at a mission from the Government abroad, with whom they make their votes known. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u442	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter sent to the Bureau by my colleague, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, and Mr von der Vring, have taken part in this debate. Spyridon Tsigligiris, Athanasios Davakis, Tsabika (Micha), Iatridis, Theodora Bakoyannis, Elena Raptis, Olga Kefefaliannis and Konstantinos Ah. Karamanlis won't be present in today's roll-call vote and they tell us by letter that if they were present, they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but shall not be counted on the counting of votes. [[The letters referred to above are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 306 to 312]] [[The vote is adjourned and I ask the electorate to count the votes and to export the result.]] [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward with the completion of the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u444	Mr President, I would like to say that we are voting on the bill and we abstain from taking part in the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u445	Yes, sir. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u448	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u449	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u451	Mera25 is far away. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Consolidations of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We shall now vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u455	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u457	Mera25 is far away. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u461	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u463	Mera25 is far away. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u467	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u469	Mera25 is far away. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u473	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u475	Mera25 is far away. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u479	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u481	Mera25 is far away. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u483	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u485	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u487	Mera25 is far away. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u491	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u493	Mera25 is far away. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u497	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u499	Mera25 is far away. Article 8 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u503	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u505	Mera25 is far away. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u509	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u511	Mera25 is far away. Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u515	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u517	Mera25 is far away. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u521	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u523	Mera25 is far away. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u527	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u529	Mera25 is far away. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u533	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u535	Mera25 is far away. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u539	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u541	Mera25 is far away. Article 15 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u545	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u547	Mera25 is far away. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u551	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u553	Mera25 is far away. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u557	The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u559	Mera25 is far away. Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. In this article, Article 18, the amendment is included with a general number of 35 and a special number of 5, which will be voted on separately at the end. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 31 and a special number one as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u562	KINAL is from there. The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no. We do not accept any amendment because they are late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u564	Mera25 is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 31 and a special 1 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 33 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u567	KINAL is from there. The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u569	Mera25 is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 33 and a special 3 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. The amendment with a general number 34 and a special 4 was put into roll-call vote. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number of 35 and a special number of five?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u572	KINAL is from there. The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u574	Mera25 is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 35 and a special 5 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 18 of the bill. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 36 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u577	KINAL is from there. The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u579	Mera25 is far away. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 36 and a special 6 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u580	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote on the amendment with a general number of 34 and a special number of 4. A total of 220 Members voted. In favour of Amendment No 34 and a special number 4, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 150 Members. On the other hand, there is a need for the Commission to take action in this field, and I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to do so. ‘PARON’ no Member of Parliament voted, in accordance with the roll-call roll-call protocol below.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u581	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 34 and a special 4 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are moving on to the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u584	KINAL is from there. The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u586	Merra25 is far away. The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport was therefore adopted by a majority on the principle and the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u589	KINAL is from there. The JRC is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u591	Mera25 is far away. The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Consolidations of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and other urgent provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u592	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u593	The House has given the authorization requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-30-S1-commons.u594	It is with the consent of the House that the sitting is closed. Time expired 19.30 p.m.
