ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to make four announcements to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Minister of State: "Following State: The organisation, functioning and transparency of the Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration". The Ministers for the Interior, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Tourism and State tabled a draft law on 2-8-2019: “Confidence of the Ministry of Interior, provisions on digital governance and other urgent issues”. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It was referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that I have the honour of informing you of the number one. 12997/7440, since August 2, 2019, the decision of the President of the Parliament, established under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Special Committees of the Hellenic Dissemination, Environmental Protection, Research and Technology, Equality, Youth and Human Rights, Regions, Road Safety and Sufficient Security and other Refugee Enforcement Structures for the First Synod, of the Ith Review House, of the Parliamentary Period. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u2	Finally, I have the honour to inform you that with No. 12994/7438 of August 2, 2019, the decision of the President of the Parliament was made in accordance with Rule 46 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Parliament's Library Committee for the First Session, of the IH's Parliamentary Period, was established. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Minister of State: "Executive State: Organisation, operation and transparency of the Government, Governmental Institutions and Central Public Administration". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 1 August 2019 to discuss the draft law at one or two meetings, one on principle, articles and amendments. This means that depending on how many colleagues will be registered - you are already registered, but I will say how you register - we will see whether today is coming or we will go tomorrow. I think there will be two meetings today and tomorrow. Tomorrow, as you know, we'll start at 6:00 this afternoon. I think that there is no objection from this House, it is by majority in the Conference of Presidents and in the committee. Because electronic identities, from what I have asked and learned, for the old and new colleagues, will be ready early in September, the entries become a little unorthodox to the ladies sitting there, in the old, good way. It doesn't matter now how many of you registered, we'll see how many of them are from each party, and there'll be a rotation so that they're not six or seven from one party. Before the two - three first rapporteurs are finished, they will have drawn up the list to give you and to have a picture or if they want colleagues between the same party to make a mutual change of position possible. In any case, you will be able to go to the ladies and sign up for those who come or who have not been registered and wish to do so until they come from the Step and Mr Christos Spirtzis. We have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u4	Until what time do you expect it to go today, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u5	Let's see, Mrs. Canelle, how many people will be registered and, given that we're going to go tomorrow, I suggest we go in a reasonable time, but see the registered ones first. There is a protology and a dentext to the rapporteurs and the special speakers and a little tolerance of time, because the bill is a big one. I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stavros Keletsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the first emblematic bill tabled by our Government is a great reform of the functioning of the government and state. Breakdown, because it places itself on a new, modern and innovative basis the functioning of the government and state, which must meet the needs and requirements of modern times. Dispersible is the concept in Greek society that we have an incompetent state. Which one of us, in contact with the citizens, has not heard the phrase: “What are you waiting for? There is no State.’ This perception is largely well founded and is based on the shortcomings, inability, inefficiency, inefficiency, mistrust with which the state is often dealing with citizens. 'Build a state', then. This is the mandate we have from the Greek society. It is the mandate that this government has and that is what it is doing today. It sets the foundation for this state to be built. But what state do we really want? We want a state of modern, well-organised and effective, that meets the needs of citizens and society. We want a state of citizens-friendlyness, which will effectively and in a short time, without having to search for cross-cutting instruments for this, which will facilitate entrepreneurship and operate as a catalyst in the economy, as an accelerator and not as an accelerator in development, which will respond and operate directly, coordinatedly and effectively in exceptional circumstances and in crisis situations. The example of the confusion, the inadequacy and inefficiency of the state machine a year ago in the Eye is typical. So what are the characteristics of a modern and well-organised state? First of all, the modern state operates with principles and rules, where everyone, each string on the state machine, from the first and the highest positioned to the last, will know its role, its work and the rules and principles on which it operates. This is how harmony and order are achieved in administration. A key factor for the state to function properly is man, human element. Trust, merit, growth based on merit and efficiency, awareness and satisfaction that your work is recognised, are the principles and values that must govern the functioning of the public administration. These, together with the continuous improvement of skills, education in new technologies, particularly information technology, in order to make the most of the possibilities offered by technologies and rapid developments to them and the continuing retraining on the development of the subject of each official's competence, are the guarantees for the harmonious and effective functioning of a modern state. So all this takes account of the bill we are discussing today. The draft law in Article 19 describes in detail the principles governing the functioning of the State and central administration. It is the principle of the rule of law, as specialises in the principles of legality and good administration, transparency and accountability, efficiency and efficiency, necessity and subsidiarity, merit and professionalism. The principles of confidence, dignity, neutrality and depopulation of the state and administration shall be strengthened by the arrangements of the draft law and shall apply to it as a whole. Here, then, are some of these arrangements: The establishment of the Office's position with a three-year term, renewable three years, from the public service hierarchy, with essential powers for the administrative and financial operation of the Ministry, coordination of the services, the power to sign a final signature, which is not chosen by the Government, but through ASA and clear and transparent, crystallised procedures. The delegation of responsibilities and in particular the final signature of all individual administrative acts to the Directors-General again taking prestige. The replacement of the head of audit bodies, such as the ILO, the IEA, the IEA and the Environment Inspectors, who have so far been posted General or Special Secretaries, i.e. political persons selected by the relevant government, who are now replaced by the Directors-General, i.e. high-level civil servants on the basis of objective criteria through the Services Councils. The annual meeting of the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council with the Directors-General of the Ministries in January each year. What do they look like? All of this shows the confidence of the New Democracy Government, the confidence of the Mitsotakis Government in the worthy public officials who trust them and give them substantial powers. This is how another myth of today's Antipopulation and yesterday's government is being destroyed, namely that Mitsotakis does not trust civil servants, that Mitsotakis will be after civil servants, that he will destroy them more many dangers, which we have heard mainly during the election period. On the contrary, this government is coming and trusts in practice the civil servant who wants him to be a real partner, which is why he is given substantial powers. So, trust in civil servants, but also merits these features, are these values, these principles governing the draft law, and these, together with the provision of quality, upgraded human resources. It's very typical of the importance that the bill gives to them. On this occasion I would like to congratulate the Minister, who, during the debate on the bill in the committee responsible, showed an unprecedented sensitivity to parliamentary data, taking into account all the comments, wherever they came from, either from the institutions, or from the Members of Parliament of the House of Commons and Opposition, in order to improve the draft law, which he has done to the greatest extent. So the graduates of the National School of Public Administration have the treatment that they really deserve, because the Greek state has wasted, given a lot of money to build this school and to have the students of this school and get out of there executives, who can deserve to manoeuvre the government. There is also the establishment of new sectors, such as legislators, public policy analysts, digital policy analysts. So ensuring quality human resources is one of the predictions of this bill. This, together with the exploitation of technologies and all modern means and the appropriate refurbishment equipment, can actually give a new impetus and change the way the central state operates. But modern, organised and efficient state also means planning, namely forecasting, planning and targeting. It also means implementation of the actions and actions planned within a given time, i.e. timing and monitoring of policy implementation and finally measuring the result, i.e. performance. That's what we're interested in. I think we all agree that the best return is guaranteed through programming. The benefits are maximized. Costs and total costs are minimised. The results shall be accelerated. Thus, the state becomes more efficient, more effective. It can cope with and satisfy the needs of the citizens - each one separately - but also the social system as a whole, quickly and successfully. The government itself, on the basis of these principles, works: targeting, monitoring the implementation of objectives and measuring the outcome. All this is the aim of the bill we are discussing today. In particular, in relation to planning and objectives, a strong support centre is set up at central level next to the Prime Minister, in Article 21 of the bill, the presidency of the government. It is a strong support centre for the Prime Minister's work that coordinates the planning and monitoring of the implementation of the government programme. The same happens, however, in all areas: economy, education, health, welfare, social policy, security. The Ministries finally have a final role and operate on the basis of a concrete action plan that is measurable. At the same time, there is central planning and monitoring of achieving the objectives. The Ministerial Council acquires a central, substantial, effective policy-making role and meets, not formally, to meet communication needs, but essentially, on a regular basis every month and exceptionally whenever necessary. In December each year, the Ministerial Council is introduced and approved the Consolidated Government Policy Plan and the Ministries' Action Plans. These are provided for in Article 49 et seq. of the bill. A specific role is also the ministerial councils of April and September, which are the planning and evaluation boards of the government project. The bill even introduces incompatibility and impediments to the ministers, the Secretary-General and the executives of the agencies, i.e. to all senior political executives, so that there is no conflict of interest and sets clear, clear rules in the functioning of these institutions in relation to qualities, both earlier and during the term of office, but even for a period after leaving office. It introduces rules of good legislation and codification of existing legislation. We all know, especially those who deal with the application of law, the great problem of the wrongdoing and of the pluralism that tortures the lawmakers. Here, then, the government comes to adopt, firstly, the rules of good legislation and, secondly, the existing laws, the possibility of codifying legislation, so that there are no doubts about the existing provisions and that any conflicts - if any - will be eliminated. In the fourth part of the draft law, the National Transparency Authority is institutionalised which incorporates all the scattered public and private corruption control structures that are currently in place, such as the Public Administration Inspectors' Body, Public Works Inspectorate, Health, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will need two or three minutes to finish. I would therefore like to point out that this National Transparency Authority, which is described in detail both its powers and its operating methods, presents annually a report on the evaluation and programming of Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency on 31 March, and that is very important, because this principle - let me not use the term 'legalised' - but informs the relevant committee of Parliament and through this National Representation of its programming and its accounts. This is also very important. So this law is the foundation for the new operation of the state. We naturally start from the central state at the level of the government and the ministries. What we are seeking, ladies and gentlemen, is, as I said at the outset, a more efficient state for the benefit of the citizen and society. What we are seeking is the recovery of the citizens' confidence in the state, of this lost confidence and the creation of a new relationship between the state and the citizen, and through the restoration of this confidence between the state and the citizen, a new relationship between the citizen and the political system. That's the bet, that's what it is. It makes sense that there is a large part of the civilian staff who are adapted to old attitudes and perceptions, which is stuck with the old one, with established attitudes, with established practices and perceptions of the past, who wants the client state to exist just to have reason to exist. It wants to be partisan in order to serve other interests and other reasonable ones. It makes sense, after so many years of implementing such policies, that there are reactions. Not everyone can follow, we understand that, but that does not mean that these attitudes and these established practices will become an obstacle to moving forward. Because the Greek society that has suffered so many over the last decade with this great monumental cycle and the pressure it has suffered from it, a memorandum that is largely due to this poor and customer function of the state, is now mature to accept these changes, not only is mature, but encourages us to make these changes. Wherever we have been, all my fellow Members in our provinces, in society, in the world, have been in contact with the citizens, who have all told us with one voice: "Continue as you have started, do not stop. Continue with the same momentum!' This is the command: "Do change, change the state". And yes, well, we're moving on, we're not stopping. At the same moment we continue with the aim of changing the state, changing the economy, changing everything, because that is the mandate of the Greek people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u7	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Christos Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President, and good start. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the first draft law by the Mitsotakis Government on the final state. At the same time, the Standing Committee on Public Administration is meeting for the other draft law. Following the lack of an opinion by the CENE, the ex-post pre-consultative consultation report, the incomplete report by the General Accounting Office of the State in order to have a gray zone in relation to costs, we are living another process of misrepresentation in the draft law which includes the principles of good legislature. What's the rush, Minister? Of course, by tabling the new draft law you are helping us draw conclusions and helping the Greek people as well. What we are saying, of course, is a drop in the ocean, even though the Minister is a worshiper of procedures, as he said in the committees. What do we define as a final state such as the title of the draft law on the organisation, operation and transparency of government and central government? What does the citizen understand when he hears the title and reads the government's leaks? The government, the ministries and therefore the ministers should have four main functions in the final state: legislative initiative and the adoption of rules, the planning - strategic, short-term and long-term - of hierarchy and funding, monitoring procedures, legality and their implementation. Of course, in order to implement this plan and implement it, because we have a state at last, and we want an effective state in line with what the government says, it should be included in the draft law and which bodies are implementing, namely local authorities, regions, municipalities, other organisations, something has to be done. It is not an end to the state, if they do not exist, at least as is stated in our Constitution and in the legal systems of European countries, if such provisions concerning decentralised administration and self-government are not included, that is to say, the regional bodies of the state. It is not a final state, without provisions on the relationship between these regional bodies of the State and the central government, i.e. with the central bodies of the State, the degree of decentralisation, the degree of decisive competence given to regional bodies and all the rest. This is a modern European ending state, especially in the advanced European countries invoked by the government. Otherwise it doesn't mean. Let's see now what the government plans for these four functions as a final state in the bill. Does it include them? The answer is no. Unfortunately, the objective, the government's plan, is not the ultimate state. It is not the transparency of the functioning of the government and central government. It's not the fight against bureaucracy. They're not modern government structures. It's not the state's abstraction. It's exactly the opposite. And we'll prove it then. The first basic function of the state of staff, the legislative initiative, the adoption of rules, the establishment of procedures, the rules of good law, all of this is under the suffocation of the government's Presidency, the six special secretariats, the four hundred delegates and partners, the ETUC, the ERT, the RES, all those transferred as responsibilities to the Prime Minister. For the rest that the Minister said about rationalisation procedures and everything else we didn't find anything. All we found is a faithful copy of all the articles of the existing presidential Decree 63 of the D.C., as applicable. Selectively only and intentionally are exclusions or additions to the current presidential decree to establish, consolidate, even by introducing provisions that are directly in breach of the Constitution. It is all over-concentrating on the Prime Minister even the CENE, for which we do not have an opinion, the CEC, the Committee on Codification, the Official Journal of the Government and a number of other things. Minister, I would like to ask - because the New Democracy is a lover of regulatory and independent authorities - the following: Have you received an opinion from EFSA, from the Public Procurement Authority for Article 37? The Secretary-General, according to your bill, acquires a final signature as emerging control, study, service and directors-general have transferred individual operations. According to Law 4412/2016 and European legislation, you should have received at least an opinion. Similarly, to see the mismatch with the other draft law that is in the committee at the same time and is being discussed, the Economic Committee becomes a contracting authority. In other words, one bill takes from the ministers and takes them to the Director-General. The other bill removes them from the municipal council and does not take them to the service, but takes them to the structured, corrupted body called an economic committee, so that we can understand what the same principles of legislation are. The second basic function is the strategic or annual design. And this is approved by the presidency of the government. Finally, I wonder what the ministers will do to this government. Even the article of Constitution 83(2) stipulates that the State Secretarys are taking responsibilities from their Minister. But here, they only get them from the Prime Minister. We therefore have a 'Prime Minister'. The third basic function of the state of staff - you say, leaking to the world - the hierarchy and funding also falls within the new structure of the presidency of the government. For the fourth time, the basic function of the state of staff, namely control, has not been repeated again in the old legislation. We have a unique principle, a unique structure - which is original for European matters - which brings together all the audit authorities at the one national transparency authority, in order to establish the Inspectorate-General for Public Administration and the legitimate audit authorities. The exact same thing happens at random? - and the Competition Committee. Indeed, the launch is not enough, but the commander of the New National Transparency Authority is appointed by fully opaque procedures by the Prime Minister. Just the same thing is being done with the thematic Secretary-General. Mr President, I would like to present Mr Mitsotakis' letter as Minister for Administrative Reform to the Council of State. Listen to what he said at the time: ‘The Chief Inspector for Public Administration under Article 1(3) of Law 3074/2000 was appointed for a five-year term, which expired on 13 September 2009. Since then, it has remained in its place in accordance with the established provisions and the fundamental principle of administrative law which requires the continuation of administrative action. This principle, given the importance of the powers exercised by the Chief Inspector-General for Public Administration, requires that the services of the current Chief Inspectorate-General for Public Administration continue to be offered in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the institution in accordance with the principles of administrative law.’ [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So if your name is Rakinzi, you're for two terms and your term of office is over. The same happens if your name is Kyritsaki. If your name is different, you're stopped. Mr. Minister, the ILO is downgrading. That's what you're consistent with. You told Kos. You told Kos that the checks were enough. Of course, you'll remember what happened both with the APRC and with the IMO before. You can see what happened seven to eight years ago. We - and this is true - have shown our attitudes to how to exercise our institutional role as a Democrat Opposition, with responsibility, without distortions and excesses, without populism - even though we have experienced four and a half years - with reasoned opinions. We will, however, show our political disagreements vertically. Although, Minister, you have shown at least as an attitude in the committee, following the pressures of most opposition parties, a mood - and we must recognise this - of fundamental cooperation, with changes in the articles that were given to unconstitutionality, but also to some others that we proposed without any importance if they were of secondary importance, ultimately, what is being proved by the Government? That all you want is to confirm the popular wisdom: "The wolf, and if he ageed and sprinkled his wool, neither did he change it, nor his head." You are attempting a hard partyisation of the state, not just the rehabilitation of the right-wing state, since the citizens of the New Democracy's organised base do not welcome such a rationale. You are attempting to build a party mechanism under the suffocating control of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his partners. You are now bringing in two draft laws without any principle of good law and you are moving forward with a tough counter-reformation. We'd read the decay, and one of you corrected it. The abolition of the register of Executive Officers continues it, the abolition of Administrative, Sectoral Secretaries, the abolition of the Observatory for Public Administration, the reduction of the incompatibility of the Ministers and the Secretarys of State, the mitigating of formal qualifications of retired persons, the increase in the costs of retired persons, the abolition of the ESKAEN - CENE - is a recent law on codification - the abolition of the General Inspector for Public Administration and the Auditing Bodies, the deterioration of the RES and the ILO. What you took back was the abolition of the multiannual recruitment schedule and congratulations, but in order to avoid ruining the decay, we will borrow something from the other bill, the insult of the Greek people's vote in the municipal elections with the full circumvention envisaged. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have no plan for public administration, no strategy. You have a plan, a perfect plan not for what you were saying in an election to the Greek people, not for the mud that we accepted four and a half years, but for a prime minister, a party state. That's not the plan. Mr. Mitsotakis has been aware of this as a proposal since 2014, since he was Minister for Administrative Reform, when until August 2018 the metropolis of neoliberal ideas, the OECD, gave the corresponding report. So this OECD report is talking about the over-structure that is being established, only what you are doing is worse because you also have additional responsibilities, but above all because the report itself says that in OECD Member States it is a rare phenomenon that there is only one institution covering all these functions, that is, the administration centre under the Prime Minister's responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two more minutes. And why am I saying that? Again, the report states that the OECD member states vary considerably depending on the historical development, the cultural environment and the constitutional framework of each country. Today, what the OECD report said was widened, but then the institutions were pushing to implement all the anti-social measures - and that is why the OECD proposed - which we imposed on the country and many of them we overthrowded in 2015. If we're all right here, we'll see them one by one. Why didn't you institutionalize it then? Did you have an anti-constitutional emblem? Why? Five years ago you had the report, since 2012 you had the report. You understand what the anti-constitutional obstacles are. I am presenting to the Minutes and the OECD report. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, we will remember what you were saying about the posters, about the costs that you are bringing up today, about the incompatibility that you are making today, about some relatives you do not institutionalize, about the excellence that all posters will be graduates of high school, and in one year's time we will see what you are going to say about the effective state, because you are in danger of sticking them all together with what you are doing, so that the Greek people understand the plan, the perfect plan you have contacted about the abundance of the state within thirty days. Unfortunately, you are not just poisoning political life, but you are tearing down the credibility of institutions, such as the Inspector General and the control mechanisms. Repeat the plan 'whoever is not ours will be checked, whoever is not or will be checked or relieved'. But, Mr Gerapetiti, Minister, you do not come politically from the far right, so I close with a few lines from a book I bought you for a present. I'm sure you've read it before, but you've forgotten. "There is one mistake in the plan. There is one mistake in the regime. No, people are not divided into those who are by the regime and those who are not by the regime. One mistake, one mistake we've made. The scheme is perforated by this mistake. The plan is perforated by this mistake, a wrong dynamite that will blow us into the air." It's Antonis Samarakis' mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi. The registration list is now closed. Sixty-seven colleagues have been registered, the services will now build the list and share it in good time. So consider 100% that we'll have a meeting tomorrow. I think this evening around 23:00 till 0:00 we can interrupt and continue tomorrow. I call on the former colleague, Mr Harris Kastanidis, a special speaker from the Change Movement, and we welcome him back to the parliamentary seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, thank you for the welcome. Good to see you! Ladies and gentlemen, in the post-war political era there is no government - or even a party - that does not accompany its programme with an idea of administrative reform. Each government estimates that its own proposal for administrative reform is the one that was missing until the time she was arrested. And each of the Ministers, even when it comes to administrative microdispositions, takes its ideas as a pioneering step in the development of the administrative system. And we usually come back to a younger age, to the conclusion that nothing essential has changed. The government, which is currently proposing the bill for the alleged state of law, is subject to the same mistake and I must remind the honourable professor, on my right hand, that the administrative changes which are really important are those which society demands on the demand for administrative services and are guaranteed at the end and in its conscience. Let us say, if you ask the citizen what he considers to be a serious administrative reform, he would mention the incision made by Law 2190, the Peponnes Act, as the most characteristic attack on customer relations. In his conscience, the attempt of an organised system of transparency, as reflected in the law on "GENERAL", which, in fact, many on the right and on the left attempted to chant, but failed because of political and social response, has been recorded. A third important reform is the successive waves of strengthening the degrees of self-government, the establishment of two levels of selfgovernment and their strengthening with responsibilities, although they have not, to date, been accompanied by appropriate financial resources in their exercise. The Government therefore submits, as it claims, a draft law on the final state. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we must consult on the scientific and political conception of the term. When we are talking about a state, we are talking about the state - a headquarters that is planning and planning the general policies of the state. From this final state, which is articulated in a few ministries, with a few addresses and staff of very high scientific qualifications, the executive powers at both levels and decentralised services are transferred, almost all, to the two degrees of self-government. Only then can there be an ending state. The final state is not, in other words, top arrangements, but a profound structural reform that gives the central state the characteristics of a headquarters it plans, but its executive powers, other than justice, foreign policy and taxation, are transferred to the decentralised administrative structures at both levels of local government. And if you think that we can disagree on this concept, we have nothing but to look at your peers or major journalists from the beginning of the 20th century to the present day. Is this the case with the government's draft law, such a structural reform for the final state? Oh, no. They're top arrangements. Throughout the long pre-election period, the government carried out a propaganda picture, which was reproduced by willing journalists, that it would be a new system of prime ministerial power, relatives of the organization of the German Chancellor or the Cabinet Office of the United Kingdom. In fact, none of this is happening. There are the simulations, but with an excellent, huge difference. Government regulations do not touch what the Germans and the British have achieved in their public administration, namely strong and with great powers decentralized structures. The Länder in Germany have excellent economic and administrative powers - which is certainly not the case here - while the British, apart from the decentralised structures, have organised a state extremely efficient. It's not here. So there are administrative micro-administrations and a great deal of intervention - it is the essence of the draft legislation under discussion - which is the formation of an autonomous public service, the presidency of the Government, through which the prime minister system is strengthened. The pre-centralised system has been constantly strengthened in our country since the 1985 constitutional reform and then with many political malfunctions. As many times as political aberrations have been sought from the over-concentration of power in the Prime Minister, they have not been found to deal with political and social tensions. Today we are taking another step towards strengthening the pre-accession system. This independent public service, which comes under the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has five General Secretariats, one Special Secretariat, that is to say, a total of six Secretariats, has one Directorate-General - I will comment after the Directorate-General - the Directorate-General of the Office. In other words, the coordination and supervision of the Prime Minister is without a sign of dangerous missions, such as the management of the National Printing Office, which is now seconded by the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. A great deal of work and coordination, I have to say. The presidency of the Government has at least 100 post-call officials, with three hundred seconded, a total of four hundred forty, whose choice begins and ends with the wish of the Prime Minister. There is, in other words, no guarantee of a impartial crisis, such as the choices of staff or the movements of personnel within the central administration. It is a decisive responsibility for the Prime Minister. He chooses the posters, he chooses the seconded persons by way of derogation from any other provision. To them, of course, you will add staff to the diplomatic services, to the Security Bodies and to the Armed Forces. In addition to the four hundred forty people who make up the presidency of the government, it is certainly moving - it could not be otherwise - all the staff of the National Printing Office, which has so far been a special secretariat with a posted head, and therefore increased qualifications. Now he's gonna be a general manager. The attempt to over-concentrate powers around the Prime Minister also gives rise to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I was listening, during the discussions in the parliamentary committee, to the Minister of State's statement 'no responsibility for the Ministers is at all affected. No public administration activity shall be affected.’ I pointed out to him at that time - and I would point it out today in plenary - that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs is one of the five Secretary-Generals of the Government Presidency and the final author of the bills and amendments. Today the Minister formulates with his staff - perhaps with a legal committee - a draft law, submits it to the Secretary-General of the Prime Minister and then receives the bill and submits it to Parliament. In the regulations proposed by the government, the Minister is entitled to do two things: firstly, to submit his respects to the Secretary-General for Parliamentary and Legal Affairs. The only thing he does is to state the guiding principles of his future legislative initiative. I repeat, the guiding principles. At the most, and by concession, it can do, is submit a draft. It is the Secretariat-General for Parliamentary and Social Affairs who will judge constitutionalities, who will decide whether, if necessary, a regulation of the proposed Minister contradicts the draft law of another Minister, draws up the final draft law and submits it to Parliament. Beware that the official of the House, according to the joint legislator, Mr Gerapititi, cannot receive the bill unless the General Secretariat of Parliament and the Legal Affairs of the Government Presidency has drafted it. The Scientific Service of the Parliament is also inclined. Because the Minister is an academic, I assume he respects his colleagues who observe and comment. So the Scientific Service of the Parliament is getting rid of it and tells you: "The Government is present in the House through its representatives, which are the Ministers, the Deputys and the State Secretarys. They're the ones who submit. The joint legislator may not designate the powers of officials as to whether or not to receive a bill submitted by another. You cannot define, in other words, the competence of the officials of this Parliament, only its Rules of Procedure. Now, Minister, representing within the current political time in Ethiopia the party that is being recommended, I suppose you will better understand your colleague, Mr Macrgitris, who traditionally belongs to this area and thus has a firm position in his views, contrary to the well-deserved representatives - in general - the political parties. So Mr. Macrygiris firmly supports two things in his view: firstly, that the almightyness of the Prime Minister and, in reflection, of the Chief of Officer Response creates a major issue in the design of a comprehensive government policy, he is an implicating factor in an integrated design of government mechanisms and related shadow government mechanisms. Secondly, in a collective volume of the Sakis Karagiorgas Foundation, Professor Macrykeetis attempts to summarize the conclusions of several reports. Since the beginning of the 1950s we have had Varvaressos' excellent report on the economic issue, but one of the issues it raised, was the restructuring of the state mechanisms. In assessing the various reports, therefore, from the Varvaressos report to the Langrod report and from there to the Decleres Committee report, the Macrins stressed that the administrative pathogenesity of the country consists in strengthening powers at various parallel levels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President, and I'll finish. Administrative pathways with the strengthening of the decisive powers of influence, as Professor Macrykitritis describes them, arise within the political system with the concentration of decisive influence on executive power. Within the executive power with the concentration of decisive influence on the Prime Minister. Within the administration in its political department. And within the administrative hierarchy, the decisive reinforcement of influence is at its top executives. You are moving towards strengthening the administrative pathogen. You are still taking a step towards strengthening the prime minister's power. I could announce: Well, unbelievable administrative arrest! In conclusion, Mr President, I am sorry to say that the right step towards unifying the scattered control mechanisms within the framework of the Transparency Authority is being undermined by the arrangements for selecting its institutions. First of all, the Transparency Authority - and rightly so - is planned to be a authority that has all the guarantees of operation of the independent authorities. And its leaders and their subordinates have full operational independence, are not subject to state supervision or control and are apologised to parliamentary bodies, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Since it has all the characteristics of an independent authority, why are you subject to the status of the Ministry of Interior? That is the first point. And the second observation: The choice of its board of directors, as well as the commander, turns us back many decades. He has no guarantee of a pointless crisis. The committee judged by the governor and the board of authority shall be composed of people of the absolute confidence of the government. During the first implementation of the law, the commander of the Transparency Authority, as has been rightly pointed out so far, makes the Prime Minister uncontrollable. For all these reasons and some who do not allow me time, let me mention, as a Change Movement, we reject the draft legislation in principle. We will be given an opportunity to discuss the articles in detail, Minister, in the hope that the contradictions we will highlight will be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u11	I would like to remind you that the debate is uniform at the outset and on the articles. It is not going to take place today at the outset and tomorrow on the articles. It is a single debate. Just the rapporteurs and the parliamentarians have your seconds, where you can...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u12	Because it will be followed by a second debate, I understand that the second debate tomorrow will be focused on the articles, so that's where we'll say most.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u13	No, because of the constant tactics - which you know it - do not expect that a vote will be taken at the outset today. That is why I am clarifying it. Otherwise, in your denture you can talk about the articles. Before Mr. Synthrakis goes to Stepa, I have the honour of announcing to this House No. Page 128 13167/7566 as of 5 August 2019, decision of the President of the Parliament on the establishment and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Synthrakis, special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. With this bill, the government is attempting to show these changes as neutral and naive, as necessary for the good - supposedly - of the whole society. The truth is, however, that these are the suggestions of the European Union, the Commission and the OECD, in order to make a manual for achieving the objectives of capital on the basis of what has already been legislated at the expense of the people with the three Memorandums from all the previous governments and governments of the New Democracy - PASOK and SYRIZA over the last four years. Therefore, its risk and anti-pity are given to the people. By catching the thread from where the SYRIZA government left it, the Government is attempting a series of institutional changes to organise and operate the urban state more effectively in terms of modern management and business administration. Behind the misleading and barbaric slogans of efficiency and colonization, it seeks, first, to form a state administration more centralized, more hostile to the demands of the working people's movement and, at the same time, more effective, more resilient, more resilient to the service of business groups to regain their profitability, more capable of enforcing anti-government policy. Secondly, it seeks to form a core of senior state officials that ensures continuity of this policy, regardless of the political context, any governmental rotation or the intervention of the people. Thirdly, it seeks to regain the people's confidence in executive power, as the evaluation report says, namely to recover its lost credibility from wider popular labour layers in fear of a generalised challenge. That is why the government presents changes in the urban state simply as technocrats, to be lost in the irresponsibleness of the declarations and to blur their class mark. However, it is of little or no interest to the people if the model of the state of service, the civil state, is an Anglo-Saxon or Chancellor type. In any case, it is an anti-linguistic and classic state. The individual disagreements between SYRIZA and the rest of the parties in the bill do not constitute an obstacle to their convergence, provided that a more efficient urban state is guaranteed on behalf of the capital and more aggressive against the people. This is not only the consensus of the SYRIZA and the other parties in the direction and objectives of the draft law, but also the New Democracy's disposition with its Minister to adopt many - if not all - of the proposals it has submitted to the Standing Committee's meetings. After all, on such a major issue, which is the continuation of the urban state and the strengthening of its effectiveness - for which, of course, they are all committed, since they have jointly voted on memoranda and anti-grassroots measures - why should they be ruined by the individual? At such times, the masks fall. The question that arises for us is whether the current state is really ineffective. It is not at all ineffective when it comes to working people's mobilisations by suppression and prosecution, by proclaiming illegal strikes, by the strikes of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy now. It is not at all ineffective when it takes additional tax exemptions and privileges measures to strengthen business groups, when it cuts pensions, breaks wages, legislates labour jungle and expands poverty, when it accelerates electronic auctions, privatises education, health, energy and delivers social security to individuals, when it imposes the law and order on universities and the rest of society. It is not at all weak when he participates in imperialist war plans, when he concludes strategic cooperation plans with the Americans and NATO, in order to facilitate imperialist interventions in the region. The state is doing its job in favour of the social minority, and it seems ineffective and incompetent in terms of the needs and interests of the workers and people's groups. Objectively, what they are left with is the political management of popular anger, how indignation, protest will remain within the framework, be geared to the inability of institutions, persons, mechanisms, the irresponsibility of ministers, will be charged to one or the other political power, but never, ever, but to the class character of the government and the parties in governance, regardless of the management mix that they are impoverished. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill promotes a series of arrangements that form an even more centralised, flexible and tough government, capable of promoting without delay in all areas, all that is needed to create an investment-friendly environment. The Legislative effect report mentions the recovery of investor confidence in institutions, legal certainty and the avoidance of bureaucratic turbulence, so that they can calculate the estimated time to carry out their work and set timelines that can be consistently followed. In other words, it provides for codification in legislation, on the basis of the reactionary European Union law, by updating and permanentising the anti-grassroots framework and the memoranda, a procedure initiated by the SYRIZA Government, in order to achieve a reduction in bureaucracy for investments and business groups. Such a state wants capitalists, a bolted machine that serves the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, the interests of NATO, the Americans and the European Union. This state serves New Democracy, this state also served by SYRIZA in the four years of his administration. Only if one imagines the single and indivisible mechanism of a common mechanical clock, which every small or large gear can only move in a sequence and timing with the rest, will he be able to understand deeper the uniform nature of the multi-faceted mechanism of the urban state and its aims. This objective crosses all the provisions of the bill concerning the organisational restructuring and functioning of the government and governmental bodies, such as the cabinet, government councils and government committees for the organisation of central government and the establishment of the government Presidency as an independent public service. In the first part, the executive role of the Ministerial Council is strengthened, and the role of the Central Council of Economic Policy and the Ministry of Finance is further expanded, so that anti-grass policy can be implemented without impediment. Indeed, the responsibilities of the ERCF are to provide that it will not only be limited to matters of national defence, but, as referred to in Article 5, it will shape the national security strategy, taking into account foreign and defence policy, public policy, cyber security and energy security. It is considered the most appropriate way for an effective holistic governmental approach to the issue of internal and external security, serving the objectives of the European Union and NATO, as set out in the Joint Declaration of the European Union and NATO in Warsaw in 2006, signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and continues today by the New Democracy. In the second part, regarding the principles of good governance of central government, where the principle of efficiency and efficiency must tend to fulfil its mission by using the least resources as far as possible, they are a role of a faster and effective implementation of anti-grassroots policy, on the basis of budgetary commitments and the long term, with fewer resources, which will further reduce social costs in education, health and elsewhere. The establishment of the new office of the presidency of the government next to the Prime Minister, who will coordinate and control the government's work, is an even tighter process in promoting anti-popular policy and the communication strategy for its acceptance by the people. The new role of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information, which is introduced into the draft law and is subject to the Prime Minister, will continue already suffocating and controlling state media for more effective policy propaganda. The objective and pluralist information for the people can only be seen as an alibi. The planning and monitoring of the government project in the third part of the bill, as well as the evaluation thereof, at all times reduces the role of the class urban state to serve the interests of the bourgeoisie and business groups. On the other hand, its role is strengthened, it becomes more difficult to monitor the implementation and the adjustments needed to implement this policy that is friendly to business groups. The unified draft government policy is adapted to the objectives and priorities of the general government's budget, therefore the medium-term financial strategy, namely the government's policy that is a long-standing austerity for popular strata, with bloody primary surpluses by 2060, as decided with the Troika and every time it is legislated by the Government and Parliament. The provision on impediments, incompatibility and rules to avoid conflicts of interest of the members of the Government provided for in Part Four gives the impression of creating a communication image for the integrity of political persons, so that the people will recover their lost in the years of their crisis of confidence in the political system. However, the question of interactiveism does not change, regardless of rules that go in every time to make the game a predetermined rule of legality, since this is mainly about serving the financial interests of business groups. The creation of the National Transparency Authority, in which all control structures will be incorporated to date, will strengthen, as the draft law states, transparency, accountability, integrity and rules of law, against corruption and the opacity that exists today. The moto has heard it too many times before. Behind these well-defined wordings on transparency, the application of the rules of law, in our view, the inspiringness of the civil service is hidden. The essence of the legality which the government is trying to bring about is essentially the legitimacy of the anti-grassroots policies that makes the richer and poorer. It is the legality of unemployment, uninsured work, work to the grave, employers' crimes and imperialist wars. Law is therefore nothing but the will of the sovereign order expressed in laws. This legality is raised by the draft law as a universal need and, if necessary, imposed by law and order, as the evaluation report says. It says "the concept of the rule of law is primarily achieved by safeguarding the prestige of the law". And immediately below it says: 'by improving citizens' compliance with legislation'. It is therefore an element of modernization of this state that is also an attempt to combat corruption and the need to consolidate democracy. In fact, it is also a sign of strong confrontation between the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Movement of Change, in trying to haunt their superiority towards the other parties on the basis of morality, integrity, competence of their executives and their corresponding lack of these traits in their opponents. This confrontation does not only serve propaganda but also essential purposes. The aim is to facilitate the activity of capitalists in this way. The fact, for example, of the equal access of business groups to tenders or the simplification of procedures for investment are issues which, in fact, are analogous to capitalists. What does the government and the various left-wing defenders of capitalism mean - governments, parties, institutes, personalities - under the term 'corruption'? Do they mean, for example, keeping from all the governments of the law which defines sixty specific tax exemptions enjoyed by shipowners? Do they mean reducing the tax rates for large business groups and, at the same time, the evacuation of taxation and the carving of the people? Do they mean simple state support to the banks when government spending on education, health, social security is being cut? Does it ultimately consider corruption to be the adoption of laws that reduce wages and pensions and increase the taxation of the populace? In no case are these not considered corruption phenomena in the capitalist world. On the other hand, legislative activity for the benefit of the favourable investment environment, i.e. for the benefit of capital, is considered an essential condition for any State which respects its urban nature. "Your fair," said Marx, "is the will of your class that was proclaimed to law." To identify, then, the real content which the parties and the mechanisms of the system give rise to the term 'corruption', we must see the difference between this legislative initiative and those that are characterised as scandals. When it comes to corruption, they mean staff or collective enrichment resulting from breaches of the law. In this category, however, they do not incorporate capitalist enrichment resulting from the faithful application of the law. This infringement usually combines with money, bribery, abuse, extortion of parts of the bourgeoisie. That is why the question of corruption is central to the final state debate. So what does capital need corruption, since it has a whole state mechanism to work for it and turn into a law anything that its profitability demands? Their problem is not the profitability in general, but the greater profitability of each other vis-à-vis the other competitor, the taking up of a project by one company instead of another, the safeguarding of a subsidy or a programme instead of another, the acquisition of larger market shares by one company against competitors. It is clear, therefore, that corruption is the necessary complement to the legitimate pursuit of capitalist profit. Ladies and gentlemen, for the JRC, the labour-class dilemma and popular strata are not 'effective or inefficient state', but whether the state will be the city's ultimate state or the working people's state. The JRC serves the second. This is what we want to build, by the people for the people, a state that does not aim to support the profits of major business groups, but is based on the social ownership of the means of production, labour market control.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Synthraki, you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u17	I shall conclude, Mr President. In an economy that can be designed centrally and effectively, based only on the fulfilment of modern folk needs, the final organs of popular power will be the production units, the workplaces. In there they will be elected and revoked, when appropriate, by workers' representatives in the institutions of power. It will be unreserved to criticise decisions and manipulates which hamper the development and strengthening of such a people's economy. That is where transparency will be conquered. There all kinds of arbitrariness, bureaucracy or negative other phenomena will be denounced. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the JRC will vote against the draft law in principle. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u18	We will proceed as follows with the two special speakers, Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution and Mrs.Adamopoulou from Mera25. Then he has asked to speak - and I will of course give him - the Minister for his introduction. And then the Minister has first asked the parliamentary representatives for the floor. I say this in order to schedule their speeches if the other parliamentary representatives want it for today. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, before the final draft, to make a brief statement because we were in the Chamber a short time ago and participated in the committee on the new draft law. So the draft law was put up for consultation only on 30 July, at 20:45, it is important, Minister, that - and the time expired on 2 August, at 12 noon, that is to say, no more than forty-eight hours at noon, when the government itself, in the bill for the ultimate state which is so defended, proposes that the consultation time should last for two weeks and in urgent cases, with the justification of a week. If this is true law-abiding, we will in any case be able to fight for how to legislate the third bill, to know how long we will wait. Let's go to the final plan. In the last day, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of our dialogue on the final state - which Mr Mitsotakis' government is evangelizing - it became very clear that the draft law had immediate changes. You have been forced to step back on a number of critical issues about the democratic functioning of the public administration. However, ladies and gentlemen, the core of the bill remains unchanged. The ultimate state, with which you are supposed to change the bad texts, remains a completely party and over-concentration, around the Prime Minister and state. The philosophy that establishes a central power next to the Ministerial Council remains too. The Greek Solution at the beginning spoke of a bill that promotes over-concentration of powers in the Prime Minister's office, to one single person. Article 1(3) of the Constitution states: “All powers come from the people, there are for him and the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution.” But with this bill all the functions of the state will go and return to the emperor. Thus the political system becomes more vulnerable to the interests of the economic oligarchy at the expense of the people. I'm afraid all you can do is create instead of a final, a subcommittee state, Minister. You yourself realise that this party and centralist empowerment will have the opposite effect on what you are seeking. The first bill will constitute the beginning of a confusion of competence, for either a slogan or over-concentration of responsibilities at the Prime Minister's level that no doubt characterises a rule of law with an organisation of the administration, in accordance with the Constitution. The old system has failed. That's a fact. But instead of a new, modern way of running, with control, flexibly, quickly in decision-making, we are going to a solution of over-concentration of powers in the hands of the Prime Minister and his staff. Somehow, badly - badly, you have led to change some articles in the bill, Minister, which was a misguided piece of work. In any case, I should like to point out the courage of the Minister to make changes similar to those which I and other colleagues have pointed out. But we mustn't stay there. And since I referred to Mr Gerapitris, one of our stigmas during the committee on the draft law on the final state concerned the expenditure planned for the events for the completion of the two-year period from the Greek liberation. My concern was about the amount of money and where this money will come from. The Minister has assured me that there will be no extra cost. A few hours later we learned about Mrs Yanna Angelopoulos, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, Mr. Mitsotakis is a really super-party. She took Mrs Angelopoulos, the lady of the Olympic Games, with an emergency and no balance sheet. A simple question: What does Mrs Angelopoulos have to do with 1821 and with national regenerativeism? I hope and hope that what it will do for 2021 will not take four hundred years to pay it back. On this matter, we assure you, Minister, that we will follow it closely to see whether this grand project will be implemented without cost. However, it will be good to realize as early as it is that the ultimate state with Angelopoulou, with Panagiotarea, with Mavrota and other days is not possible. "Substantial" more reminds me than finally. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to change one or two articles or paragraphs. There are serious gaps that we have pointed out in the draft law on the final state that are actually condemning it to failure. So we are opposed to any centralisation, any form of over-concentration of powers. In this context, the current draft law goes against our beliefs, that is to say a rule of law characterised by distinct functions under Article 26 of the Constitution, and that is why we cannot give our blessing to transform the already supra-concentrating prime ministerial city into a hereditary monarchy. We'll have something like an emperor sultan. That's what you're going to do. With this bill, therefore, a number of bodies are being abolished. All responsibilities shall be transferred to the Prime Minister's office. I was given the opportunity in my earlier speeches to place myself on specific articles of the bill. I think I should stand by someone today. My original point is as follows: we feared when we heard of the army of posters and officials who are destined for the Prime Minister's office, who together with the fifty ministers and State Secretarys, are the otherwise small and flexible governmental shape of Mr Mitsotakis, which is supposed to compose the image of the state of service. That you have reduced this "imperial" army of posters of the government Presidency with a maximum of one hundred people is a positive step. But we don't eat that cheese. For some reason that you probably regard as merit, it is still true that the standard ratings for posters are reduced and their earnings increased. Furthermore, there is provision in some cases for meetings of the Ministerial Council not to be followed in practice. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Could you mention these cases to us? What, in other words, meetings are so secret that the minutes are not respected? Unless you mean the Prime Minister will be in charge of keeping the record. It wouldn't make us any impression, Minister. I'll report some numbers, so the people who are watching us are listening. At budgetary level and on an annual basis, according to the special report accompanying the bill, it is noted that - listen! - the remuneration of the Secretary-General and the Special Secretary-General to the President of the Government is EUR 128,000. For permanent staff, but also for posters, the expenditure in question amounts to EUR 2 000 000. For the secretaries of the ministries at 500,000 euros. For positions of directors and directors in the new organic units of ministries 178,000 euros. For the newly established Administrative and Financial Support Unit in the President of the Government, the expenditure is 600,000 euros. Finally, expenditure which cannot be identified by this report is caused by the establishment of Support Secretariats for Government Commissions and Services in the General Coordination Secretariats and by the payment of a salary to officials in the Armed Forces. In addition, your final bill provides for the establishment - at the expense of taxpayers of natural - organised and staffed offices. Or is this the case, Minister, for mechanisms to promote your own projects in every ministry? Beyond that, I would again ask what is the meaning of the performance contract that each Secretary-General or special secretary will sign with the Minister when there is no measurable quantity. Rather, Minister, this is a pretext for terminology, to justify the government to the Greek people for the recruitment of private managers to the public, because in fact the general and special secretaries will be private managers who enter the public. The government makes the reduction of bureaucracy and modern management model by transferring the right to sign to the Directors-General of the Ministries. But at the same time, Minister, it gives them bonuses to do their job. So any civil servant who does his job will get bonuses for the self-evident, that is to say, to do his job. By definition, the proposed provision contradicts the purpose and content of the task of the civil servant. Even more - listen to this - by a decision of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister alone is defined as the amount of the special reward, namely the bonus. Before the elections, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, neither did you tell Greek citizens that we are living - let alone - in Haiti and in Haiti, after the programming statements, you tell us that we have suddenly become Sweden. Of course, in this account you have allies. But if anyone looks behind the curtain of this communication bombing you have imposed on the Greek society, it will find that Greece remains not only Haiti, but with your own contribution it can even exceed it. I don't want to get far. In the Greek Solution, we believe that the people and only the people are the ones who do not want the protection of a protector of a Prime Minister. It requires democratic self-protection. We saw what happened with the Prespecies Agreement. The Greek political system, in full compliance with the external orders, did not raise this issue in a referendum before the Greek people. The international players were aware that, if they allowed this, the Greek people's answer would be a grand 'no'. So what did they do? They pushed the political system, deprived the Greek people of the democratic right to decide on such a serious issue. Today, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hear that the State Tourism Organization - I repeat the State Tourism Mechanism - of our neighbours, the Skopje, who misuses the slogan 'Macedonia Timeles' worldwide, that is, 'eternal Macedonia', without mentioning the geographical definition, has issued a gastronomic tourist guide, presenting even our traditional products, such as Greek coffee - do not laugh! - The trachea, the cockroache and much more. Study it, gentlemen. I'm filing it in the Minutes. ‘Macedonia Timeless’. It's all like their own products. That's what's happening today. We're helpless. The neighbors are partying with us. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, we will never stop - on the occasion of this parenthesis I have opened - shouting about Mr Kotzia's responsibilities. I don't look left because I won't find any teammates. We're looking for twenty more signatures. On the right, I'll look at you guys on the prespecies deal. We want another twenty and ten and thirty, Mr. Kotzias here to tell us why he has speeded up this matter so quickly. We are waiting, gentlemen, for New Democracy. If the Greeks could decide directly and democratically on the big and serious issues, we would not have any memorials we would have no Turks to sew in the Aegean Sea, to look for where and when they would pierce. To date, however, one, ladies and gentlemen, decides. We are vertically opposed to any centralism, in whatever form of over-concentration of power. We don't want emperors, we don't want sultans. We want a rule of law, with distinction of functions, with a model of modern public administration that will be characterised by transparency, essentially and functionally. We want the voice of the Greeks to be possible, as our democracy provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u20	And we're done with Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulou, the special employer from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am standing in front of a serial paradox today. The government, enthusiastic in all respects, advertises a bill on the allegedly reconstructing the state, who wrote praiseers, and which comes to a vote with about sixty legislative improvements and for the moment alone. Think of what would be the final number of improvements, if the government itself, who claims to be interested in good law-making and public consultation, had left the proposals in the opinion of the people, institutions and Members for a really good time. Of course, all of this could have been avoided by the New Democracy Government if its members had not been taken over by a blind obedience to the Prime Minister. All of this could have been mitigated, even if you had the courage to remind the Prime Minister that there are so many procedural and substantive errors and that in three weeks' time, when you are taking on regularity, you must in any case respect its high measure, which is the Constitution. I am referring specifically to the Constitution, because even unconstitutional provisions contain the bill. By conferring overpower on the Prime Minister you ignore the collective responsibility of the Ministerial Council and the State Secretarys for general government policy and individuality for acts or omissions of the individual's authority as provided for in Article 85 of the Constitution. You put the functioning of the Ministerial Council under the rules of procedure, although Article 81 of the Constitution expressly states that only the law can regulate it. You set an age limit to cover the posts of inspectors and thus promote unauthorised discrimination in breach of the constitutionally established principles of equality and dignity. Of course, we may expect many ministers who accept that their role will be decorative and manageable, that they will be active in the Prime Minister and that even the privilege of their legislative initiative will grant it to the fully controlled President of the Government, forgetting in this way that the Member responsible does not need to be practically and should not always be pleasing to the leadership. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the neoliberal shape that your political ideology wants to impose. It is well known that for you the state, the government and the government must obey the market model alone. Every day it is becoming more and more understandable from all of us and from the people of the country that your words are full of references to transparency, dignity and respect for the institutions, but your works send out another message. You despise the consultation and good legalization. Invoking the non-existent urgency, you are mocking the impartiality and neutrality of the state, proposing an army of posters and officials of your choice and deceiving these institutions to build a state subordinate to the Prime Minister. You also referred to it in committee, and the Minister mentioned it: public policy must now be produced largely from a bottom-up point of view. This is the vision of the bill: a almighty over and a submissive down. Before I move on to the individual, I would like to make a comment. We've heard in the past few days that it's always been the case. Ladies and gentlemen, these arguments must no longer be heard, which disorientate the debate and which do not offer anything to improve parliamentaryism or improve the level of policy produced in this area. It is therefore the government's responsibility, and only whenever it brings changes, to explain specifically and not generally how the best quality of democracy becomes, how its institutions, its country and its citizens benefit from advances. And if it is right and works, let it not just change because it cannot be credited to the present government. But when it changes, we need to know why and how it makes our lives better. So let us see what these new customs are that the new government wants to install and let each citizen draw its conclusions. As far as the Ministerial Council is concerned, your corrective actions are anemic. Although we have pointed it out to you, you have not improved the provisions of Article 2 on off-the-spot matters and on the extraordinary convening of the Ministerial Council. A truly democratic and pluralist approach would like in both cases to take precedence over the majority of the members of the Ministerial Council and not the sole will of the Prime Minister. You also insist on the confidentiality of practices for 30 years, and we ask you what exactly this provision serves. Should the people not be aware of the views of the members of the government at the latest before the next elections take place? Does the full information of voters on persons and things not strengthen the quality of our democracy and transparency? Is that not, in practice, the sense of responsibility of the rulers? What is the point of anyone other than researchers or historians of the future, public access to the minutes after thirty years? With regard to the presidency of the government, following on from the prestigious greed for superpowers and powers, you are setting up a huge centralised bureaucratic structure, which will take on, among other things, the legislative work, without even the guaranteeing presence of the central legislative committee, which is poorly abolished. You thus put your ministers in the upper theory and turn them into simple spectators of developments. You create a new service - umbrella, with annexes to every Ministry, the absolute virtue and the absolute control of Mr. Mitsotakis. You manage it with four hundred forty-three employees, one hundred of whom are posted - here, o of the miracle, they suddenly disappear the affinity blocks - and three hundred seconded officials and journalists, without the sharing of positions. And the members of the Security and Armed Forces, who will assign special tasks to the new structure, are scandalously predicted and paid up up to 30% of their earnings. Fourthly, you are increasing the Secretary-General's general secretariat and creating new ones, which are directly subject to it, while at the same time undermining pluralism by reducing government councils. You have proclaimed small and flexible forms and you end up in a gigantic structure, which is, in many cases, a shadow government and which largely replaces the work of official, at the expense of the principles of democratic legitimacy, transparency and the effective separation of powers. At the same time as you are rushing to entertain the impressions of a state "days" you are giving your general secretaries the opportunity to assign public work to a private person even, as well as, exceptionally, to reward general wage provisions for civil servants who have chosen to participate in committees. At the same time as the supposedly overexcessive civil servants, you avoid making the most of the experienced human resources of the public, preferring it to be privatised. Instead of resorting to the register of directors that the previous government did not take advantage of as it should, you simply abolish it, without any sufficient justification, even though it was valued positively by the OECD. Let's move on to another pair of contradictions. Firstly, while removing the legal form from the ministerial offices, that is, the most demanding and costly task of post-master partners, you are increasing the number of them from the other significantly in relation to the current regime. How exactly do you justify the need for more poster, when the workload goes back dramatically and should jobs be reduced, respectively? How can we overlook that you are closing your eyes to slow payroll? Secondly, at the same time as you appear to be champions of excellence, it is enough that the direct partners in the political leadership have as a minimum a high school graduation certificate and simply good and not very good or excellent knowledge of any language of the European Union, while we all know that the English language is now the world. You will understand clearly that these choices do not endure the suffering of reason or good choice. However, we too understand that this account of the blue-collarry will be called upon to pay it, as always, by the Greek people. You are posted in positions of responsibility, following a system that the President of the National Centre for Public Administration has informed us that it tends to overcome and for which internationally severe criticism is being exercised, especially because of the "revolutionary doors", which contribute to increasing the phenomenon of corruption, when altering private sector officials in public positions and vice versa. Finally, the National Transparency Authority. In the well-known pattern, you are creating a new superconcentrating bureaucratic structure, where a number of audit services are merged, which currently employ 12 000 five hundred people. The debate in committees with stakeholders has shown that you have not even consulted the stakeholders before, and once again selecting the unpleasant tactics of surprise. Following the inadmissibility of the penitentiary services to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, according to the unique Orban doctrine, the Ministry of Justice is further weakened by the transfer of the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption to the National Transparency Authority. Remove the Observatory for Public Administration, as you have done with the ILO, you are merging to the new authority as an existing agency the Office of the Public Administration Inspectorate General. You are thus violating the recommendation of the Council of Europe, which requires the functioning of a special, one-off, independent, independent audit body, to supervise the implementation of the National Strategic Action Plan against Corruption and to coordinate the action of individual audits and not just mechanisms. And that is what you are choosing to do despite the increasing quantitative and qualitative effectiveness of the institution, as Mrs Papaspyrous has identified. In the same way you degrade the Labour Inspectors' College, remove the self-sufficiency and independence of control mechanisms and put them under the control of the commander, which the Prime Minister chooses for the first term of office clearly. You once again choose not to make full use of the existing staff, with experience and knowledge, undermining from the inside the potential that has experience and knowledge and opening the tank of candidates in such a sensitive area of private managers, who will introduce market culture into one of the most inappropriate areas for such approaches. You want that, Prime Minister, to gain full control of the area of transparency and public policy, despite the assurances to the contrary. You're giving your chosen commander superpowers. It may repeal or amend individual regulatory decisions relating to the organisation, operation and exercise of the powers of the bodies which are part of the authority. So the commander is, among other things, carrying out an irresponsible legislative body and indeed in the field of independent services. You give him the freedom to appoint private leaders of his choice, after unjustified and unexpectedly redeploying the active heads of agencies. Has the current heads been assessed and considered inappropriate in accordance with the applicable procedures and the need to remove them has emerged? Apparently not. Just as in the case of officials who are transferred to the Directorate-General for Economic and Administrative Services, your bet and in this case is to place your own people, who will be supervised by your also commander. You also make the mandatory removal of the waste when carrying out ‘subjects’ checks on a voluntary basis. How exactly do you imagine effective anti-corruption controls with this initiative? This opens up access to information that must remain confidential between specific persons only and risks the effectiveness of the check. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we from PART25 are responsible for reflecting the positions of the amendments we have tabled and for their full justification. I would like to put two other amendments in the Minutes here. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we must warn that no number of amendments are sufficient to correct the many bad texts of the bill. This is mainly due to the lack of extensive consultation with the actors and civil society and, above all, to the government's proven willingness to hand over imperial powers to the Prime Minister and to circumvent any concept of transparency and independence. The first error is solved by withdrawal of the bill. But the second thing I fear is that it is completely conscious and inherent in the ideology of the New Democracy and, unfortunately, unsurpassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u22	With Mrs Adamopoulou's speech, the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. We will now give the Minister the floor and then the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Xinoyannakopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the members of the Standing Parliamentary Committee on the hard work that has been done in a short time, for the very creative debate which has been taking place and for everything that has contributed to the formulation of this draft law. I should also like to thank the rapporteurs and the former Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Xinogiannakopoulou, and the former Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Gerovas, for their very creative observations. I should like to say on a point of order that this bill, although it was genuinely urgent, should create the structures on which the new government hierarchy will be based, but, with my own personal choice, I did not want it to be urgent. I wanted, even in the short time between now and the end of plenary session, to have as much time as possible for public consultation and for the hearing of the bodies and, above all, for that, I think it is democracy - to have a genuine debate before the Standing Parliamentary Committee. That is why there has been a public consultation of six days, there have been multiple meetings of the Standing Parliamentary Committee and the bodies that have been called before the Standing Parliamentary Committee have been heard. And, indeed, I must say that it was extremely creative the whole parliamentary procedure, which I too must praise from this point of view. I do not understand, and I do not understand the backwardness of the acceptance of important proposals which have been made by both the Communism and the Opposition. It is, in my view, a honour for this bill that it has incorporated many of the remarks that have been made, in particular within the Standing Parliamentary Committee, and I think that this bill has been greatly optimised, without, of course, the agreement to change its basic philosophy of recruitment that we have on state modernisation. What is a perfect state: "State of wisdom or of the names of the visit", as Antisthes said. Finally, it is the State that has the effect. It is the state that is planning and which can coordinate and control. It is not a state that is small and flexible. This is a theory of political science, which has been overturned since the 1980s. The State’s critical is the existence of standardised procedures, which can at any time be checked in respect of their compliance, and in particular the criterion is the creation of programming positions so that they can be monitored with a substantial effect. Listening to the rapporteurs for counter-population, one remains with the impression that the state organisation was excellent and no intervention was required to develop modern structures and procedures. You will allow me to say with all due respect that this view is inconsistent with reality. It is inconsistent, because the State of Transmigration in Greece has worked with such fundamental inertia that it has become a state particularly static, which cannot in any way meet the requirements of a modern state of service. Are we pleased with the way the Ministerial Council worked in post-Government? The answer is that we are not happy. The Ministerial Council in Transmigration has actually acted as a genuine subordinate of the Prime Minister. I'm surprised to hear that a big one is being created, with some exceptions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u24	With very big exceptions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u25	With great exceptions, Professor. Unfortunately, a year's product was a serious deterioration in the collective work of the Ministerial Council. It is no coincidence that while we were in the 21st century, the number of meetings of the Ministerial Council has been reduced and statistics on this chapter are interesting. But in particular, the great problem of the collectiveness of the Ministerial Council is that, not only was there not a basic manual on which governance would exist, but the fact that there was no periodicity and regularity in the Ministerial Council. There is no European country that has a structured state that does not have a periodicity in the operation of the Ministerial Council. It cannot be determined by the Prime Minister alone when the Ministerial Council will be convened. With today's bill, for the first time, we set the rule in Transmigration that the Ministerial Council is convened at regular intervals once every month and not just this, but every Ministerial Council will also have a very specific mandate to do so. There is the Ministerial Council that determines the individual policies, the one that approves the overall action plan of the operational state and there is the Ministerial Council which shares the action with the Ministries and there is the Ministerial Council per month in which the Ministries come and submit their own individual action plans, a normal governance manual, which was lost from Greek political life and is first introduced by this bill. Are we pleased with the way the project for public policies was drafted and monitored? The answer, in my view, is that we must be very disappointed about this. It has been heard before - I think it is reproach - that what we want to introduce is a development of public policy from the bottom to the bottom. But that's not a personal or government choice. This is the restoration of the true meaning of the Constitution itself. The Constitution requires that the government collectively coordinates and directs the country's general policy. The Constitution itself demands that the Prime Minister ensures the unity of the government and directs all public services to serve government policy. It's not a worldview or a basis of political science. It is the clear letter of our Constitution, and that is what we are restoring, creating a structure that has been characterised as imperial and centralised. You will allow me to say that there is no overconcentration, no deforestation of government structures and, of course, no deforestation - I would not dare to do so, because I would account to my students - particularly the sanctuary of this area, Parliament. None at all has any competence to be removed from the Minister's office. The Ministers retain in full the powers conferred upon them by the law and by the Constitution. What is being introduced is what applies to all European advanced states. In other words, there is a central structure, which monitors the implementation of the government project. That's why it's worth it. Because to date it has been completely personal, atypical. Perhaps the Prime Minister would pick up the phone to see where it is, at what stage of development there is the development of a legislative initiative, the preparation of a ministry. Today that's too much. Because structures are being created, so that both the ministers and the Prime Minister can in real time know where each individual government action is and the Prime Minister can intervene, but only coordinating and remedial, and not in the essence of public policy. Is there going to be a system which will give an early warning that there is a delay in programming for the implementation of a public policy? Is it reluctant that in a state such as ours, which has suffered forty-five years from multiple responsibilities, there will finally be genuine coordination? The aggregations have been persecuting the Greek political system for decades already. Somehow a normalization should not occur, so that the ministers do not have the phenomenon of operating in opposition. How can unity be guaranteed beyond a strong system, which can monitor compliance with policies and all with full respect for the constitutional responsibilities of the ministers? It has been said that it is a restriction on the fact that a General Secretariat of Legal and Legislative Affairs is being established. There is not a single country in Europe that does not have such a general secretariat. It is incomprehensible when at all, but in all, the major universities in Europe are subject to a special section and a course of legislation that we in Greece do not adopt basic principles of how the law is produced. And, secondaryly, what does that mean? Bad law, multiple law, evil, pluralism, which isn't curing all because? Because we cannot understand that we are now moving in a completely different, modern, specialized environment. The UK special secretariat working on bills is actually the one drafting the bill from the outset. We don't make it that far. It is only legal that the intervention is made. Does anyone question the fact that the United Kingdom is a pillar of the representative system? Is the United Kingdom system which has brought the institution into Europe for eight hundred years? Obviously not. Finally, let us have a modern system that can respond to times. We cannot function permanently with the inertia that have been produced in Transmigration. Is it not a pathology to the fact that there is this osmosis between politics and administration? I've heard there's a business that's going to be salted and part of the state, the administration. This is indeed a very great pathology and was a product of the time of postpopulation. But I do not honestly understand how it is possible to characterise as a partyism the fact that, for the first time, for the first time, the part of the civil administration, launched by the Minister, ends up with the thematic Secretary-General, from the service administration, which starts with the Secretary-General and ends with the entire administrative hierarchy. Now two distinct pillars, each of which has a specific competence. And how does that happen? First of all, in the 'Government' pillar, the strategy remains to be drawn up during constitutional requirements and the exercise of regulatory powers, i.e. the production of the necessary rules of law, so that the policy can be implemented. On the contrary, in the pillar “Administration” what is being created? First of all, the position of the Secretary-General is created. The Secretary-General, which is in fact the highest level of public administration, now comes from public service - is a public career employee - collects all the material of the Ministry's finances and personnel. The Ministry's wallet and the service situation are now the same for the administration. It is not, in fact, a monopoly of any minister. In addition, the most important material in the exercise of state action is transferred to the administration, the individual administrative operations. More than 80% of the material will be produced by the Directors-General, selected by the AACC, evolving by service councils and accountable in the context of their public service position, without any mandate from a political leader at all. 80% of the matter! What does that mean anymore? It cuts by 80% the bureaucracy of the Greek state, cuts off the umbilical cord that would produce this secondary outbreak of corruption, the pressure on the administration, to produce a concrete result. Isn't that a colonization? It is also a request from the academic community, but I think also from the political class, to trust public administration. Does it not constitute confidence in the public administration that the largest material will be produced through the public career employees? Is there more proof of who respects and trusts public administration than this? Finally, I feel that there is a pathology in terms of accountability and lack of transparency. I think we can agree on that. Maybe it's wrong the way we put it. I would like to say, however, that we are pleased with the way in which the audit bodies operate? I have listened very carefully to the recommendations of the special rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups. Are we happy that we have a huge multitude of control mechanisms? Are we pleased that there are areas that are not controlled, because that is precisely because there are overlapping control activities? Are we pleased that the six supervisory audit authorities, which are merged with your proposal per hand, are appointed in one way or another by the political authority? Are we happy with all this? Do you need some sort of incision? What we are saying is that we now have a large supervisory authority. It is a prerequisite for all international organisations, it is a requirement of common sense that we now have a principle, which will be fully equipped with freeness, so that the work can be carried out. How? With high independence and impartiality. Is it bad and bad that, for the first time, a rule is introduced by this principle, that the auditor should also be checked? The self-evident thing that happens everywhere in the world, namely that within an audit mechanism we must have internal control forms, the auditor committees? Should they not come to Greece at any time? Shouldn't the audit framework be modernised? Should the control mechanisms not actually come out of the logic of political influence? I heard something, which really seemed very contradictory to me. I have heard that we are coming and degrading the control bodies of the market, i.e. the ILO, the Labour Inspectors and the Environment Inspectors, because they will no longer be subject to the Secretary-General, but to the Director-General. And that is, in the perception of being degraded. You will allow me to say with all due respect that it is the major upgrade that these bodies could have, because they will no longer be subject to any political control, because the Director-General or the Special Manager is appointed by the government, but will be exclusively within the administration itself. The control programme, the audit reports will be produced only by the independent pillar "Services administration", which will be chaired by a Director-General. Is that a downgrade? You will allow me to say that my feeling is that we have a coherent plan, which could create conditions of modernisation and reconstruction of the country. It depends, obviously, on the application that is going to happen. It's an ambitious plan. But I think we should all agree that, as the Greek state has structured, radical areas are needed. And these radical areas will come not conservatively, trying to see the problems, but with an overall intervention that the state will take a step forward. And this is the first phase of this modernisation. It will be followed by a second phase, which will deal with the vertical organization of the state, which is mainly concerned with subsidiarity. Because it was right to say that no major state reform could exist without a radical reform of the institutions of local government and decentralisation. There'll be a second phase and it'll be very brave. Because this framework, which is being introduced today, will also be accompanied by a draft reform that gives major responsibilities to local government and self-regulatory resources. So there will be a comprehensive plan for things. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to thank the Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, for his kind gift. He donated me "The Error" of Samarakis, which is one of my favorites, as is the "Z" of Vassilis Vassilikos. I would like to point out, however, on this occasion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u26	You had both books.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u27	I had them. But the truth is, because they're back in the '60s, I was kind of young at that time and I read them at a late age. But what was the mistake in Samarakis' work? It was this: We have regime, which is impersonal and is an enforcement force. As Lenin would say, to explain it, the elections produce the mechanisms of oppression. You choose your power, I, you know, I'm not like that. The great mistake, however, was that they did not calculate, did not calculate the status of humans. I would therefore like to say - and I am convinced - that in order to be able to control arbitraryness and overconcentration of powers, one thing needs to be done. There is a need for very systematic procedures. The Prime Minister does not gain authority when he has a large structure next to him. The Prime Minister shall acquire authority when there is no procedure to bind him to the way in which the policy is produced. And my ambition, with this bill, is precisely that: all the state institutions must be bound by these procedures and institutions, when we talk to the government, to be subject to your judgment of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will then have the floor, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I didn't know you personally. But today I admired your rhetorical cowardice. I'd say you made the meat fish. I would say an excellent speech, but only for the people of New Democracy, the MPs and the voters. I don't understand what you told us. You told us that the Prime Minister would not be overpowered, why would there be any other bodies that would be independent? Is that what you told us? Or did you say that there could be a state if there were many other agencies at the same time? Listen, we're not Germany. In Germany the governments are changing, but the states are working. Unfortunately, in Greece, whether the government is changing or not, the state is not working. To understand and to understand the essentials, I shall begin with a saying that I have heard today and I very much liked, Minister. The one who wants to run the country as an excellent orchestra must turn his back on his party people, his spectators. Unfortunately, not only did you not turn your back on your party people, because if you turned your back you would do something very simple, you would be proclaiming the positions in the "GENERATION" and saying we need a hundred, two hundred, five hundred people to serve an independent and non-party staff. Did you do it? Oh, no. So don't come here. I told you that your rhetoric cowardice is unrelenting, exquisite, excellent, but at some point you tried to convince me that you were doing better. But if you did it better, you would do it in "GENERAL", I told you, this self-evidently, would you post and say: Who are the worthy, who are the good, who are the non-party good people, but who can pay? It's one, two, five, ten, fifteen. I'm sure from the five hundred, six hundred, how many you'll get, most will be best friends of the Prime Minister, friends of the Ministers, friends of your party, friends of yours, who come out of the universities, you know from the DPRK, and maybe some nuggets, may be some people who can do their job well. That is not politics, Minister. Unfortunately, I am sorry, but it's not politics. And because many of you think you're traveling abroad and I happen to have relations with Germany, that's not the German state. If you want to talk about a European state, post yesterday, tomorrow, all the positions to choose the best, the Greeks who have doctoral and postgraduate and not to have a high school graduate able to take a responsibility. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What are these things? There are children who have become waiters in Germany, France, Italy, why can't they get a job here and you're putting high school graduates in places, while there are others with doctoral and postgraduate degrees? So let's stop at least. It's not bad politics to lie, Minister, that's what they used to call old times. I disagree with that. But it's bad to believe it yourself. Here you believe in your lie that you're telling the truth. But it's a lie you're doing. It's all pragmatism, anxieties, "cascassism," ruffles. They are four hundred forty people in Mr. Mitsotakis' court, another eight hundred fifty to Ministers. I'm not saying that you don't need it, Minister, but, if you really want to take a step forward and not a step in the right partisan, you have to do it publicly and say: Rusopulus is good, he may be a SYRIZA man, but he does for this job. Mylonakis is the same. I call colleagues' names here or kids outside. Not put your own people in it. I don't think I'm sorry for you, Mr. Roussepoulou? I said you were good, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u30	I've heard worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u31	I don't think that was the worst thing you ever heard. Let's go to the rest. At the private offices of the Ministers, it says, eighteen employees are scheduled, eight posted. What are the eighteen Ministers supposed to do to them? What can the ministers do to them? Will they work so hard? So all the ministers of the New Democracy are working together? Listen, so we don't fool around. The ministers want some journalists to lick them all day. Here's what the ministers do today in Greece. They take four, five journalists in their offices, unfortunately for the profession of journalists who work on radio, newspaper or television and do, if you like, the "glazers", or better the "fugrists" of the Minister. This is the reality, so the system works in Greece, which is why you see some channels giving land and water to whatever government. And that's why you see some channels, Minister, formerly with SYRIZA, they've turned it back to you today and they've taken it to you. Because that's what power does. It mutates ideologies and changes people, unfortunately. Sometimes, I'm just going to say it, it's not about power. He's just revealing his character. And I say it for everyone in here to understand. The Presidency, he says, will be subjected to the ETUC and ERT. Did they get out of there? What happened? Did they go to the Prime Minister? Where does the NSA belong, guys? I'm a little confused. Is ERT and ERT a member of the Prime Minister's office? Has Mr. Mitsotakis become a journalist? I don't know, James Bond. He's got the NSA. I'm telling you some cute ones now to understand. All this overconcentration of all powers in the Prime Minister's Office or showing that you have a fear justified for the deep state or that you are unable to understand that dignity is the number one element that can get the country out of the stagnation. There are worthy people. We're the country that kicked out Nanopoulos, you guys! That worthy man we kicked him out of the university, we didn't want him in college! This is Greece, the new - Greece that we have built! I say it in very simple words, because I don't want to tire people. I see some bonuses, head of department benefits. Listen, Minister: When you make head of the NDP a serourite, who has rounded around the American Embassy constantly, because Piat wanted it, don't tell me that the Prime Minister has no jobs or is not joined by some. You put Mr. Condolone in the NSA - I don't know what's his name - a surcury! Jesus Christ and Mary, that is! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] These are things that I tell you that reveal both the character and the quality of your culture or government. I will say this once again: for all the places to open freely, to get the Greeks to apply! It's hypocritical! We're going to Mrs. Thanou now, with whom I don't have the best relationships. I don't know the lady or ever met her. The gentlemen fought her out of there before they left, you guys come and untie her, so you can get one of your guys later. The veil and the shovel! That's how you guys are, so you can take care of your people. You mind because it had something to do with the Prime Minister, while the kids you put now don't have anything to do with the Prime Minister. Everything's far from the Prime Minister's office. What are you talking about in here? We live in a lie! Get out and get out a little bit. Who will now believe that what you're saying is true? I won't say it's unconstitutional and all that weird. And it's badly done with Mrs. Thanou. I will say in public that the legislator must come out and say that those who are supreme judges must not take any position or minister, because you too have a minister here, a member of your Government, Mr Athanasios. Wasn't he a former judge? So they're hurting while yours is better. Oh, no. Both are wrong. The highest judges have no right, I say directly, to participate in the parties, even at the end of their retirement. It's stupid, it's wrong politics! We put Thanos in the backpack and you don't look better. This is where you took Angelopoulou, Mrs. Angelopoulou, you guys! Wasn't it yours? Mr. Tsipras in America didn't Angelopoulou take him? You took her and put her in place, Mrs. Angelopoulou, who still don't know how much those Olympic Games cost us. On 12 November 2004, Mr Haloskoufis told us that he was EUR 8.9 billion. On 9 August 2005, Mrs Petralia told us that she was EUR 13 billion. Not to mention the fireworks next to Mrs. Angelopoulou's house, with which half of the forest was burned. You who take this lady, have complained - to understand why I have photographs, to them, to Mr. New Democracy, and not to read what your ministers, the current New Democracy ministers, have said about Mrs. Angelopoulos - and none of you speak, none of you speak! You once denounced, "the intertwined lady who lives in Paris", now put her in a key position. And what key? For me, national key, "1821"! Is he gonna make Mademo Blacks? Boulina Lascarina? Are we all right? You say you want to do something different and do the same! Why? And I wonder. I'll say it anyway, and we'll go to the most serious now. You have a Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who made a press statement before becoming your Minister for a Macedonian minority in Greece. Mr. Skolakis and the Action! He had spoken of a Macedonian minority in Greece along with the Uranium Arc. You have him as your minister! I appreciate him as a man, I salute him. You don't believe it? I am presenting to the minutes a statement from his party, when he was there - what was, in any case - President-in-Office. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have a human minister who was talking about a Macedonian minority. The Macedonian MPs where are they? You have him as your minister! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You have a sculptor who co-signed with him against Macedonia! Where are the Macedonians? You're gonna swallow everything in the end? Everything? Come on, for Kotzia, don't you sign, Skakakis for Macedonia? I read what he had written: 'The first judgment of the European Court of Justice in 1998 condemned the judicial authorities for their refusal to authorize the Macedonian Association of "Macedonian Culture"...' Voskopoulou... Macedonian minority... and today's Minister of the New Democracy signs the press release. Rejoice them, gentlemen! Rejoice them, patriots of the New Democracy, rejoice them! Let's go to the other one. Minister, you are not competent, of course, to provide the Region of Western Macedonia with 100,000 euros and a festival took place in Meliti Florina. Half my relatives are from Florina, I know what the festivities are, I know what it means there. They're all separators who go there. He gave the Greek state 100,000 euros to sing and look at strange things, Mr. Loverdos. Listen, because I sincerely start and get upset: "The tears are only laundry, they are heavy like the mountains", they are in a song that was singing there and dancing, "my soul is crying from three sides, the Macedonians Pirin, the Aegean and Bardaris. Hey, Macedonia, you're the pearl of the Balkans!' And he says below about Thessaloniki. Florina was given 100,000 euros. I put this in the Minutes, and that is what is being punished and punished. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have here in front of me details of a volleyball match, please: Macedonia. It is very important that we go through this. Zafe, of course, is on vacation in Moudania. Yesterday I saw him - I was in Halkidiki - with his jewelry, with the 'flyers'. We're hosting him already! For you to know who Greeks are and who are really the fighters for their homeland, Minister. I have the NATO document in front of me. Do you know what NATO says? That the Skopje army is called the "Macedonian army". NATO headquarters. I submit the document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I tell you that at some point, Minister, what we are saying, what we would like to say, what we mean and what we are doing. It's practically all that. And I will close, not to push too hard, not to take time, with the "good". With those Kammen complaints about the 50 million Kotzia, gentlemen, what will happen? Will you do something? I am addressing the New Democracy. You've got a majority. For 50 million, he denounced former Minister, their partner, Mr. Kammenos, who I do not like, particularly, I've dragged him off the show and out of the news report. Will you do something or oil and water, vinegar and lemon and all good and go further? Tell me about it? He said 50 million euros. Will you investigate the acquisition of Zafe's brother's energy company from PPC? Will you do something or are you just in a hurry to appoint your children? I ask the neo-democratics. I'm not saying anything abstract in my mind, I'm saying something specific. It's gonna fall a lot of laugh and weep for some people in here, if these are investigated. I'm telling you right now. Looking for press releases, I saw a lot of strange hands within PPC history with Skopje. Look into it. It is our moral and national obligation to take the hood out of Mr. Kotzias, to take the hood out of Kammenos and see what's going on. How do we swallow it all? I don't get it. Also, because you are a sympathetic man, Mr. Hatzidakis "gave" him. I'm telling you that. He's a friend, I've known him since the old days. "Get him up." He has deceived PPC, humiliated PPC, made PPC happy! Every day it collapses, every day it's in danger, every day it'll end! When you want to sell something - I disagree - you don't deceive it. It is as if Mr. Hadjidakis had gone to sell his car and said: "He doesn't have my car, do you buy it?" That's what Hatzidakis says. "I want to sell my car, but he doesn't have a machine." You smile, Minister, but that's what it does, it deceives her. He doesn't have to talk. Not much euphoria. Stop him! Mercy! One more thing: I agree - it is right - that the responsibility of the SYRIZA gentlemen is enormous. They have a lot of responsibility. Will you do something to make them accountable? We're going to drag someone to see what happened and why all this happened to the 1 to 1.5 billion that they owe? Who's to blame for PPC, you gonna tell us? For the auctions. Who? No, "Okay, others did it, it's okay to go below." It's not like that, guys. Some of them can be apologized at some point. Some people can tell us at some point, and why they did that, who the reasons were. Of course, I will tell you something very simple, because you don't know it in here: it doesn't want intervention from the government. It's not the government's business. The Athens Stock Exchange had to intervene because the company is on the Stock Exchange. If that were the case in another country, the stock exchange would have intervened in the same way, they would have asked for an intervention of the prosecutor! There's nothing here. I can say what I want to do, deceive PPC, but nobody tells me anything. These are unbelievable things, and I'm honestly disturbed. Let's go to the other ones. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, once with the tanks you would close the ERT. You used to talk about ERT. I have some numbers in front of me. One MEP now - he made two hundred and fifty-four shows and took two hundred and ninety-five thousand euros. Another hundred and sixty - four emissions, five hundred eighty - thousand euros. Another two hundred seven, three hundred and sixty-three thousand euros. That's SYRIZA. Will you do something about that? You'll find out who ate the money? Will you do something? That's Greek people's money. Symbols are bad people. So they are told by your various trolls and your various MPs on Twitter and Facebook. If they're bad, let them apologize for the mistakes they made. If they're inadvertent, they're mistakes. If they're voluntary, they're financial crimes and all of them must be apologized at some point. Friends and friends, closing down and saying something about Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u32	About the bill to tell us something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u33	I told you at first. You want more? Because you're new to the House, I can tell you that the party chief can also speak out of the bills. You're new, though old. I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u34	Don't interrupt, please. Go on, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u35	And one last thing to close here and not tire Mr. Hatzidakis. At some point there is to be control over non-governmental organisations. All of them have to be checked. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Wait a minute, Mr Simopoulos, don't complain, you're talking about a state. You're gonna make the state, you say. Should we not control non-governmental organisations, which are in fact smuggling and trafficking in human beings? We don't have a state? You'll fix it now. Get it inside to control all non-governmental organizations that are slave-trading souls. That's what I'm saying, everybody check. That means state. He doesn't let anyone out of control do whatever he wants. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And, to close, to tell the Minister, whom I sincerely like - of what I heard, he's good - something that Frederick II said. My Minister, listen to it a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u36	That's what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u37	"I made a deal with my people: He will say what he wants, and I will do what I want." That's who you reminded me of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u38	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xinoyannakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which is euphemistically entitled 'final state'. And I say euphemism because in reality the bill we are discussing comes to bring about regulation which leads to over-concentration and party control of state structures and public administration. This bill has a threefold stigma. First of all, it has a clear neoliberal approach, although I must admit that many corrections have been made by the Minister, and that is something we recognise at the committee meeting. It has a huge over-concentration of powers, forming a hydro-capital Presidency around the Prime Minister, creating issues of institutional balance within our constitutional framework of functions and separation of powers. At the same time, under the pretext of colonization, it comes to bring about a new partisanisation of critical positions of responsibility to the public administration, as well as to a number of important principles. I said before - and I would like to mention this because we have to be fair when we discuss at the National Representation - that Mr Gerapetti has made a very serious effort at the committee meeting. In fact, various regulations which have had strong anti-constitutional times and a number of other comments have been accepted. However, as he himself admitted, this cannot in any way remove the great objections we have to this draft law, because precisely these changes do not affect at all the central direction and the major problems posed by this bill. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we need to see this bill, not fragmented and cut off. Clearly we will be more detailed then this weekend. We need to see this as part of all the initiatives and first samples of writing that the New Democracy Government has given in this month, because today is the month to be completed by the elections. Let us remember the President-in-Office's decree abolishing general and special secretariats and giving responsibilities directly to Ministers and State Secretarys - and, in fact, by way of derogation from the draft law we are debating today on ethics - and we have seen the appointment of general secretaries, but also of State Secretarys, and there have been conflicts of interest and ethical issues raised. I refer to features to the Deputy Minister who handles the Greek issue. Remember the way in which the Commander of the NSA was placed? Our department chief, Mr. Ragus, has also referred to this issue. With what merits and criteria has this place been placed in such a sensitive area? And what excellence hides behind it? And, of course, with what logic in such a responsibility do we bring people who did the same work - the same example, as we said before, for the State Secretary in relation to the Greek - in the private sector of securiti? Is that, then, the question of a new logic of state operation? Let us also say, of course, about this bill, but - as our rapporteur, Mr Spirtz, said - and about the bill of the Ministry of the Interior, of which the debate was taking place today, which is clearly unconstitutional, to violate the popular verdict, as expressed a few months ago, two months ago, in fact, in the self-government elections? Should we talk about institutional intervention in order to remove Mrs Thanou from the Competition Committee and the entire administration of the Competition Committee, which is not just an unconstitutional issue, but also affects European competition authorities in the Member States? It is therefore clear that the draft law we are debating today is part of a comprehensive logic and pursuit: institutions, if not audited, are abolished. Procedures, if institutional limits are set, are being circumvented. If the connections are not favourable, legislative interventions are made. Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to this general position, before speaking about the bill, because in the past four and a half years there has been a record from the New Democracy from the position of the opposition officer. This account had some specific evidence. First of all, the "costisation" of the state over SYRIZA, when we know very well that the government of SYRIZA since 2015 and then not only respected the heads of administration, the directors of directors who were reappointed in an administrative way in September 2014, before the elections, not only did he not violate Mr. Rakinzis' term of office in the post of Inspector General, who you come here and you are abolished, not only did not violate any of these institutional powers, but he has barely brought specific legislative arrangements since 2016 so that institutions of independence and autonomy can actually be guaranteed in relation to the functioning of the public administration. Now what do we see? Remove administrative secretaries, remove a procedure under way in the ADP, which, as we have warned you, will also have legal consequences from the thousands of candidates. And, of course, you are violating an independent authority, such as the AACC. The other account was the poster. We heard that against Coron, of course. I heard it for the ten months I was Minister for Administrative Reconstruction. I would like to acknowledge, of course, the need for the posters to support the work of the ministers. We do not make the isotopic opposition you and populism have made. But you come with a draft law, which not only confirms the poster's positions, but reduces the required qualifications and increase his earnings. The third record is that SYRIZA violated excellence and undermined the institutions. After the two bills that have come, yours, Mr Gerapitris, and the bill presented today by Mr Theodorikos to the committee, this category is being abolished, and much more with all the examples I mentioned earlier, it is reversed to you in respect of the violation of institutions by abolishing or changing the leadership of institutions, such as the Public Administration Inspectorate and the Competition Committee. With regard to the bill itself. Over-concentration around the Prime Minister creates a hydrocephalic shape with four hundred forty executives, with five Secretariats and a Special Secretariat that gathers from the ERT, the EIA up to the EICs' extradition mandate, and also creates a problem in the overall institutional balance and government function. I have listened with great interest and I know the academic experience you have, but I believe that there is a serious question of balance between the shape and degradation of the ministers as far as their responsibilities are concerned. I would like to invite you, when you take the floor again, to comment on the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, in which I think Mr Castanides has also been mentioned. It is, if I am not wrong, Articles 63 and 64, which clearly repeat these reservations that we have set out to you all the opposition parties within the Standing Committee on the Interior. I would like you to look at this very carefully. As far as the officials and the thematic secretarys are concerned, the truth is that you are bringing the secretary to the eye more as an ash in order to justify that you do not completely abolish an institution launched from 2016 onwards, that of the administrative and thematic - sectoral secretaries. You said, Minister, that I too, in part, accept what you say, that there have been pathogens from the past. You have asked us now have we discovered the pathogens of the Greek state and Greek administration? Clearly there were pathogens and even over time. In addition, because of the memoranda and the crisis, we have had great problems. Only 20% reduction in public administration staff is in fact a huge issue, which, unfortunately, your government is not facing, but has a sense of further declining public administration. On the other hand, however, important steps have been taken. We would therefore expect these steps to be recognised, major institutional changes recognised, assessed, studied and, where necessary, strengthened, here we are to discuss and go forward. Not, however, to use as an alibi such logic to designate political secretary-general and a secretary-general, who is in fact an upgraded Director-General for Administrative and Economic Affairs. Much more to be used as an alibi to present us with this new Transparency Authority, which, in the way you have institutionalised it - and we have told you this in committee too, will be accompanied by a very great shadow. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Two minutes, Mr President, I shall conclude. First of all, the feeling is created, because you do not legislate in the blank, that the government has a general direction, which has been shown by the first samples of writing, but also by the result, that this whole process is being done primarily to abolish the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate, which you know is currently considering very serious cases. It is good to accept that this is not your purpose and that you really want to work on a reasonable combination of control authorities for scale economies, and that is why you set up a single Transparency Authority. If that is the case, Minister, we have also told you in committee that we should support you. But you can give us the assurances that it will really be an independent authority. And that is where we challenged you and asked you not to appoint the Prime Minister without any procedure, the transitional commander for two years, who alone appoints the heads. You all understand what this means, what a shadow it will be, fair or unjust, in the future for all these cases that this principle will inherit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'm closing. And what did we tell you, Minister, and the Government of New Democracy? To designate the commander, by means of the formal procedure through the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament, with increased parliamentary approval, so that there is no shadow. Unfortunately, if you leave this transition - and I hope you will think again until the process ends tomorrow night - you will be chased by this shadow, which will be heavy in the future. To close - and I will say the rest in my dilemma - by saying this, ladies and gentlemen: because we have heard the argument 'but, because you are complaining, since all these cases that are finally being investigated by the officials themselves will be kept, they will not be taken by another official'. We all know very well that when the hierarchy changes the context, the heads and the administration in the way you define for transition means that there is no guarantee of the development of these cases, nor any other cases that will potentially come in the future. We, loyal to what we have said, therefore, will make a creative, programming, but at the same time dynamic opposition to both Parliament and society, constructively contributed to improving whatever provisions we could with your acceptance to improve. At the same time, we demonstrate our complete opposition to a draft law that comes to create conditions of concentration and control of the state, without substantial independence, but with partyisation of the state and public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u40	We will give the floor to the Minister to submit some legislative improvements. Minister, from what I understand, that's enough. For the economy of time, testify to them. We're gonna take pictures and share in the House. We shall then give the floor to Mr Voutsi, the former President of Parliament, and then we shall start the list of speakers. Would you like to point out something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, there are sixty-seven legislative improvements which have been discussed during the Standing Parliamentary Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u42	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. They will be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u44	About the legislative improvements? What do you want, Mr. Castanides?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u45	I would like to ask the Minister to tell us before we see the text, if the legislative improvements you have already announced to the committee, or if the sixty-seven, are additional, are included.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u46	Minister, the majority of them are what we discussed during the Standing Parliamentary Committee and they are also additional, which are of a legal nature and which do not alter the issue. However, those which I committed myself to in committee have all been included.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u47	And which - in passing - legislative improvements are embedded in the bill at the moment, based on what the Minister predicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u48	Some of them don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u49	All are embedded media, if they have been formulated in committee. We don't have to deal with details. You'll see them. Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u50	Good evening, please. Ladies and gentlemen, for the 118 out of 119 articles in the bill, I believe that the suggestions and by Mr Spiritzis and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos were extremely enlightening and I think they give the signal and the opinion of voting against the bill. I would also like to emphasise the excellent intervention of Mr Kastanidis and Mrs Adamopoulou, who really highlight a very crucial issue, that of administrative reconstruction and how differently one should see it. I want to be very honest and clear in relation to these eighteen articles, namely the body of the bill, because then I will speak in particular about 113, namely the article on 2021. That's where I'm going to focus my speech. But I want to talk to you about the motto of the bill. I tell you that I want to be very clear and honest. It is not neutral, it does not build anything neutral, in the sense of colonization. I do not accept the term 'depopulation'. I remember as it had come the first card from Mr Moscovisi - it was June 2015 - in the Ministry of the Interior and said: 'deculturalisation'. It is not a model of colonization, it is not even a model of government-friendly, in the sense of its influence "friendly". It is clearly a model of a controlled state. It is a model of an executive party state, which presents too many problems and creates an anti-institutional mentality. I believe that political allergy and intolerance to pluralism of views and people are extremely negative for public administration and this has appeared - and has already been mentioned - from the latest events. I mean the facts in relation to Mrs Thanou, Mrs Papaspyrou and perhaps more. And to the most skeptical are the impression and certainty, I would say that with photographic and retrospective power provisions there is a climate of avoiding the continuation of controls and anti-corruption outbreaks, a climate of possible cover-up and set-aside. In any case, this political allergy and intolerance will also work for the future as a model to avoid. We found that. A month and a half before SYRIZA took over - you all know - horizontally the heads of government had entered. We found it, we respected it, we honoured it, we cooperated as much as we could - it wasn't easy - and we then proceeded with the legislation on it from there. I fear this and want to be directly responsible: you are shielding the state, with the ultimate aim of creating connections to control and prevent rotation and influence over the state. Mr Vorides said a quarter ago, apart from this Ethiopian, how your party is ready to shield the state for those who have vowed and with the people's vote - at least twice - have ruled that country to renounce it, in order to prevent it from happening in the future. I do not want to be a veteran of evil, nor do I want to make an interpretation of intentions to you, Mr Gerapetti. But I want to be responsible for this Step. This model of state, this attitude, in relation to the phenomena that I mentioned earlier, which are personified, which are photographically removed by unprecedented provisions, results to a large extent in shielding against the danger of the alternative proposal, the alternative policy, the shield against democracy and popular sovereignty. It is not, therefore, just a model that is obviously the epitome of strengthening the pre-central system with over-concentration, stabilising perception and all that has been heard, but I fear that it is the beginning of a conception, which even takes institutional status, an institutional mantle and which will eventually work out both the citizen and the political and social forces, because it is really relied upon by an intolerance to anyone else who is different and has another political view, which obviously cannot be tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen - I say this for older people and you are available - the Foundation's materials for Parliament and the Republic and the Library of Parliament have been released for several months, and the first events have already taken place in relation to 2021. There has been an excellent advance, and I would ask you first of all to contact this procedure. You can ask the President once again to give all Members the relevant documentary and all the advancement. He's in contact and in cooperation with all the spiritual institutions of the country, with the Academy, with the historians, with the historical communities on this very big, top issue. Let me tell you that the '21 Revolution' is a global event, an international event, whether or not. No exorbitance, hide, mythology has nothing to add. He only has to remove. And I'm telling you about the famous c in Article 113 I don't know if it is possible to change, Mr. Gerapetritis, professor, you are, you understand what I'm saying to you - where he says directly about the creation of a single image and identity of the country, which is required by the state. Let me tell you that this process of ethnicization took place in the 19th century to have the nations - states and was forming the dominant account of the component. There is a great deal to be done in today's Russia. Do you know why? Because one end of the other is eleven medium-sized ones, and that is why they have created a record - before the year I spoke to Duma - that is consistent for the population to be able to feel acquaintance. What are these things? In the year 2021 and looking forward, after the ten-year crisis, to a people who are looking for themselves in the wider European Union, into a globalisation that is being tested, overthrowsed, opinions are coming to the surface, are we talking about the country's unified image and identity and a single national account? Pull it back. And I tell you with knowledge. Read articles in your friendly press, in "KATHMERINI", "PHELLTER" and elsewhere - I'm talking too open to get to know - over the last few days to see how people who are historical and non-historic, journalists, have serious questions with such an approach, with such a view to this issue. What's the matter? It is a question of encouraging the historical community that is multi-speaking and multi-speaking - and we need to understand this, unless we know who this scientific community is - so that regardless of the state and of ideological mechanisms and stereotypes, we can shape what is now mentioned as public history, namely a diffusion of historical knowledge with a number of publications, events, conferences, for which I have already been telling you, there has been a two-stage job here. You didn't ask anyone, excuse me. It's in here, next door, on this floor, upstairs, next door. This overall effort needs to be made to make a historical reflection and an effort of national self-consciousness on modern terms within the European framework and not just in order to effectively provide for the endless battle of memory towards oblivion, because there is no reading. We have passed divisions, civils, dictatorships, two first-time civils before we become a country and are still considering it by historians how we became a country and a single state and nation. It is well known, but there are opinions on them, visuals, history that the historians are now rekindling to see the truths with which they are enlightened. So why is it necessary in such a way to see these events, to see these publications? Because there is also a historic reform in the European Union in particular, in the Visegrad countries and in others. To a large extent, there has also been a historical review in our country over the past decades, which data on the whole democratic framework in relation to past visualities are trying to revise them, to revise them, to review them, to review them. So it is clear that the time for democracy to be measured with historical memory has come on the occasion of the two-year period. The hundred years have never been celebrated, because you remember they fell upon the Asia Minor Destruction. A hundred and fifty fell into the dictatorship and in '71 became - for those who are papales and remember them - things that we do not remember in relation to our country's historical history and the shape of our country. It is a great opportunity together, I repeat pluralist, to discuss, to encourage the historical community, to exist outside schools, to have a very great effort in society from now on in 2021, so that our country can gain greater confidence - and as a country and as a people - by knowing even more about its history. Mr President, I have just heard some words about the year 2021. As we speak of this step, let us not attempt on this issue to be nationalist, I would say, supremacy and hegemony. It's gonna be a huge mistake for anyone who's been through this Chamber. Because you know very well that in recent years, memory has been oppressed on many sides, in many versions. You know very well that for Auschwitz and the Jews we have moved together in recent years alone. That's how the fun went out for our eight fellow citizens. You know very well that for the Cyprus Folder, which you were in the governments forty years, nothing had happened since the 1988 conclusion. One volume is now issued every month in consultation with the Cypriot Government. You know very well that, for German allowances, this House, with a large majority of the democratic arc forces, seventy years later, had to cooperate - with the Greek Government - to make the financial communication to Germany. This is also a duty of the present government. So who illuminates history, how it illuminates history, what confrontations there are in this eternal fight of memory against oblivion, is a challenge that every time we have to claim and serve it directly between us. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. We are entering the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, may I say a word to the President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u53	In answer to something? Wait a minute, please, so we can finally start with the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u54	Just thirty seconds. As the President has raised the matter at the outset, I would like to point out, Mr President, that what is referred to in Rule 113.1.c in no way is a case where we are trying to form a unified national base or whether it is based on ethnicism. It is what we call operationally a branding of Greece outwards so that the projection made by Greece is in a uniform way so that it reflects the messages produced by the state and that there is no multi-dimensional body. It is clearly a communication way of viewing and under no circumstances a public policy subject to issues relating to a single nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u55	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We'll start with the list of speakers. We'll go like this. They will have the floor of four Members who are registered and then four Members will be intervened, if they so wish, by Parliamentary representatives. We begin with the first speaker, Mr Amyras, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u56	Don't you read the quadrant, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u57	I'd love to. It is Mr. Amyras, followed by Mr. Katrugalos, Mrs. Liikolis, Mr. Marinos, and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As it is the first time I have been talking in this House, in the new Parliament, to wish everyone a good parliamentary term and in the wings and every individual MEP for his work with serious and good results for the Greek society. Before entering this bill, I will be allowed by the respected President, Mr. Voutsis, to make a small point. That's right, but I don't think on our side there's even any suspicion that we'll leave a carnet to get ethnoladicism into the forefront. I remember, of course, although I do not want to remember, some cheap ceremonies of nationalism by your partner and co-pilot - and, unfortunately, by our colleague, for four and a half years, by Mr Kammenos, when he was pouring red carpets there in Salamis - did not just put thoughts - and they did various graphics. I'm putting it aside. We've been taught. The mistakes that you have tolerated happening over your days, we are not going to make them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u59	The thoughts of exclusive...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u60	Don't yell, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u61	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I have yet to speak, and have colleagues in the SYRIZA started below?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u63	Go ahead, Mr. Amyras, on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u64	I respect and really accept what you say, Mr President. And the Minister replied very well. I come to this draft law. "Myriacos, make a state." These three words - which we heard everywhere in the election - became a guide to Mitsotakis and after the elections of 7 July took the character of a clear mandate. In this draft law too, this is an act. The basic point - I would say - is the great virtue of this draft law is that it does not fall into the trap in which most of the governments of the past and, of course, the previous one, of SYRIZA. What's happened so far? The state was party-makered and the party was state-run. We saw relatives and friends occupying positions of responsibility without basic qualifications, with only some party acquaintance or a relative or friend in the party yearbook. The results are well-known: Anxiety in selecting persons who sent state administration, inco-ordination ministries, outbreaks of corruption, ruthless services to the citizens, who usually paid the bill at the end. This changes dramatically, drastically and effectively with this draft law. And let's go see his five key elements that make it different from what we've lived and experienced in the past few years. Firstly, the coordinating role of the Prime Minister is strengthened, without additional bureaucracy and without the responsibility of the ministers being touched. I heard strong criticism from SYRIZA that there is a pre-central model, etc. Is there even one questioning that each government must operate uniformly? Do we remember, in the past, ministers to do their heads, one to oppose the other minister, the other to block the other minister, each to defend the bureaucracy of his own ministry and, in the end, to defend nothing? That's what we've been through. The Mitsotakis Government will operate coordinates, quickly and efficiently. That is why the Prime Minister should have the full power to coordinate his Ministerial Council, to run his ministers - just to tell you - in order to ensure governmental work. Can I remind you, of course, that there were three Ministers of State within Maximos on SYRIZA? One was coordinating each other, and the three of them were coordinating what? Well, it didn't work. The second feature of this draft law is efficiency. All political, general and special secretaries will be regularly evaluated through the contract of performance signed and accounted for to the Greek people, so that we know each other's facts, where there are problems, where there are delays and we must run ahead. The third element of this draft law - which I consider to be the most important - is that logic replaces bureaucracy. I will draw an argument from the next draft law that the government will bring. But tell me: Do we need special documentation, do we need a lot of arguments to understand the state's obligation to distribute drugs for cancer patients at home and not expect people to wait in the tails of shame in the selected drugs? Do we need a lot of debate to put incompatibility and rules to avoid conflicts of interest for everyone in public administration, primarily in the government, the Ministers, the State Secretarys, the Secretary-General, the Governors of the ECO? There is no need for a great political battle for the public administration to gain independence from party patrons,'self Dr. Watson!'. It's self-evident. The fourth element is the full confidence shown by this bill, this government in public officials and the enormous potential of the public administration. The draft law introduces a uniform degree of service of a Secretary-General from the administration itself. Is that not the incision, that a public career worker through an APA will emerge by such procedures as to have the responsibility of the Ministry's organization and the power of final signature on all these issues? This is the substantial decoupling of the public administration and not the falsification, which we have experienced for days SYRIZA, and the third assessment in the air and the dose, when the party executives of SYRIZA took part in the tenders, were involved in the proceedings and were finally chosen as permanent secretaries. I would remind you that only one or two of them had been considered by the troika, with your agreement, of course, as non-party officials. And to answer something to Ms. Xinoyannakopoulos. Do not remember, dear Mrs. Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, how the owner of a hospital was chosen. Maybe in the bolts he was good, but in the management of a hospital he wouldn't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u65	It's procedures...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u66	Let's go down. Fifthly, transparency is strengthened. If you do not like the fact that transparency is being strengthened, please change your room. A new National Security Authority is hereby established. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, what is this thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u67	Please don't interrupt. You're short, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u68	I'm short, but I'm getting interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u69	But your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u70	I told you that transparency was being strengthened in public. What's the new National Transparency Authority doing? It puts under the cover of six agencies in charge of combating corruption, but abstractly. We had and have a Body of Public Administration Inspectors, a General Inspector for Public Administration, health inspectors, public works inspectors, transport inspectors, a General Secretariat for Combating Corruption. All of this will now be moving under the cover of the new National Transparency Authority, which will use advanced control systems, electronic control systems and internal control structures. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving fast, but not hasty. It runs the bills at high speed, because it realizes that the Greek society has demands. We've been doing the self-evident thing that's been left on the shelf for decades. By the way, I'd like to say something about what happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u71	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. President Voutsis made a reference to the matter of celebrating the two hundred years of our national anniversary, the 1821 national revolution. Let us see how France recently celebrated the two hundred years of proclamation of its own French modern democracy. I mean something. Going to my region of Yannina, making too many contacts with clubs, institutions, individual citizens and chambers, everyone told me that it was an opportunity at last to recover both its confidence and its good public image.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u73	Good, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. I am, of course, voting in favour of the draft law. The time has come for the election of the whole world to ask for action, namely "Kyriakos, build a state" and make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Katrugalos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I too wish a good start in this new parliamentary term. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a historical paradox in relation to the Greek maladministration, to which today's bill also comes. This paradox is the fact that we know, at least in the 1952 Varvaressos report, that the administration is the great patient: patronage, pluralism, bureaucracy of many signatures, many and parallel disguised responsibilities, indifference to the daily life of the citizen, has been known since then. How do you explain, then, that three quarters of a century later, despite the efforts made by other governments, especially in the last four and a half years by the SYRIZA government, we have the same problems again? The answer is simple. These pathogens are symptoms. They are manifestations of the needs of a political system that tolerates these features, precisely because it seeks through the consolidation of relations between patronage and anti-corruption, on the top of perpetuating the system of interests that we call a complication, and on the basis of the administrative subsystem to reproduce citizens' dependence on civilian staff with rousphetti, the appointment of others. So when you want to give the contracts to your own people, you don't need a neutral Bemperian public administration. When you want to implement the contract for the Greek, not in the public interest, but in the interests of the private investor, it is reasonable to define the adviser of the State Secretary. It makes sense not to want the checks of an independent administrative authority, such as the Competition Committee, freeing it from the annoying head or trying to control other independent administrative authorities in another way. The new one perhaps bringing in the new bill is that in this traditional practice of maladministration and patronage of the old political system it is coming to bring a neoliberal shade. The main aim of neoliberalism is to keep the central problems of politics and the economy out of democracy. For example, all operational rules relating to the banking framework, the Basel Agreements, have been laid down by the representatives of central banks, not by government representatives, therefore by representatives of interests and not of peoples. Similarly, you are attempting in the context of this neoliberal viewpoint, which wants to see the administration of the state similar to the administration of a public enterprise, the preservation of the aspects of the administration. Obviously what appears to be preferable to the democratic process, the technological process, confidence in the judgement of the praisers, the experts, simply conceals whose interests are served. Apparently not the many. So the central risk is always what state we want, a state for whom, a state with what characteristics. We too, with our reform efforts, have sought to reconnect public administrations, with the basic principles of European legal culture, such as the rule of law, the social rule of law, the colonisation, which the previous President of this Parliament rightly mentioned as extremism and not decentralisation of public administration. This is because those who are actually engaged in the efficiency of public procedures have, in their minds, post-democratic rules for the operation of the state that want to minimise the democratic control and accountability of politically elected bodies vis-à-vis Parliament and the people. One of the attempts to achieve any reform, therefore, is to continue. We established the register of public administration officials for the public service tasks from which general, specialist, administrative, sectoral secretaries and their assistants and agency administrators would be appointed. You, on the contrary, reinstate the institution of the parties' general secretaries, while at the same time interrupting unconstitutionally the process of selecting the non-partyist technocratic executives, to which the previous procedure would end. The Heads of Government with the five general and one special secretariats are not, in fact, a definite state but a substitute for public administration, the Bemperian public service, since its body is not organic civil servants, but the ultra-peripheral posters, who can in fact now be head of organic units, in accordance with at least doubtful constitutionality under Article 31(2). As long as it is based on this new hydrocephalic mechanism, not on organic civil servants, but on poster, it does not ensure the necessary institutional memory that is an essential element of each government's civil service. In addition to the multiplication of post-elections, which in itself is a huge sign of hypocrisy after the electoral demagogy, which I personally was not surprised at, because when I received the Ministry of Administrative Reform from Mr. Mitsotakis, I had half the number of posters from the one who had - the clientele reinforces other arrangements of the bill. For example, the single wage, with special favourable wage forecasts, is being undermined in a customer-friendly manner. The commander of the new Anti-Corruption Authority may designate a special salary scheme. Its own earnings are excluded from the public sector's upper limit of remuneration. I would, however, like to say that, because I am getting to the limit of my time - I would like to say that although I am under arrest and respect Mr Yiorgos Gerapitititis and I have a friendly relationship with him, several of the arrangements are, in my view, and doubtful constitutionality, particularly with regard to the relationship between Parliament and government and the definition of the powers of the Ministers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For example, while the symbolism that the government wanted to give to the office of the Ministerial Council from the House in Maximos was in favour of strengthening the separation of powers, your practice was exactly the opposite. Blue files were issued with the planning of each Ministry prior to the government's programming declarations, in a description of the provision of Article 84 of the Constitution. The orders of the ministers given to the contents of this blue dossier in fact violate the role of Prime Minister, who, under Article 82(1) of the Constitution, ensures unity of the government and directs its actions without replacing the Ministers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the governance of a country is different from the administration of an anonymous company. In addition to this past, which you unfortunately could not forget - as Talleyrand said - about the Burbians reform: 'Nothing has been learned and nothing has been forgotten since your stay in opposition' - you are actually coming here to introduce as a medicine something that will be a poison for the organisation of public administration, a balm of old-fashioned and neoliberalism. I will agree with Mr. Gerapetritis about the value he has to name the concepts correctly, but in the quote of Antisthenes who read us I will compare another quote of Aristotle from Rhetoric: "It is the Greek word of "The Greeks". It is not an end to what you are establishing. It is a client state with high doses of neoliberalism, which does not contribute to dealing with maladministration, but will intensify many of the major diseases of Greek public administration. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u77	Mrs Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have said before in this Chamber and in the committee, when we discussed this bill, that the people who come from self-government have a particular sensitivity when we hear the term 'final state'. And I asked the Minister that day to accept our sensitive reflexes, because for us the term has a particular added value. We never use him accidentally. It is always a vindication and a high objective of self-government. You told me you understood it. I would like to say that I recognise your politeness, Minister, as well as your good intentions. However, in our view, the State-State, as we have seen, and like our rapporteur, the special speaker, presented it, you did not catch it at all. I have said many times that there is social consensus and political maturity, but at the same time we also need a political courage to be able to escape from the triumphs and to leap towards the future. That is where the politician is judged, and that is where the policies are judged. That's where you're judging. You wanted to, but you didn't dare. I think you could, but you did not allow it, and in the end you did not even get us in the bill, nor did you, despite your good intentions, manage to do so. I think, finally, that we have wronged the project itself even in its debate, when one of them and the other from there, but we were talking, but we were watching, we were looking elsewhere. And I'll explain. If I could give a title to your effort, to the government's effort, I would say that this is a setback, a tight public administration control by the prime minister's office and, of course, to the subtitle that public policy is now being produced from the top down. You presented a bill establishing general secretariats under the Secretary of State for Coordination of Government work. Each General Secretariat shall coordinate the Ministries according to the subject matter. You told us that the design provided for the main axes of the bills to be produced by the ministries and their training to be made central to control and produce the work better and sooner both the ministers and the entire political hierarchy. You have also reassured us that they still have full competence. So there's no problem. Only one central control system is created. That's what you told us. But that's it? First of all, let us point out that the draft law of the Government entitled "Extreme State" does not have any conceptual explanation of the term. You didn't tell us what you meant. What do you mean by "final"? You have avoided doing so and, in our view, you have deliberately done so. You deliberately avoided it. And I'll explain why. The "Final State" is a false copy title for you. There is a series of legacy and corresponding legislation of SYRIZA. The draft law is huge. It has a hundred nineteen articles that extend to a hundred forty - eight pages. Legislatively, based on the principle of good legislation, you are out, Minister. And you're an academic, and now I'm fighting with you. In the new law, there is no innovation in the organization of the Ministerial Council. You could do that with a circular. You trouble us by regulating internal issues of an institution. You have a completely different look at the delimitation of the Ministries on the basis of policy and not on the basis of individual competences. That's how we see it. And, of course, if you wanted to make innovation, you could dare to remove the overlaps that are many and substantial. In this case, then, you should go forward and describe a modern web, instead of a hierarchical structure. You should give us the opportunity to tell you too much about it, how we view it and how we bring it upwards. But do you really care from the bottom up? Or do you care what you said before and I'll tell you later, finishing up with that? So where you read and have a doubt with the draft law where you have no one is when you read about the presidency of the government, which is the prime minister. This is an agency that merges different secretaries, such as the NSA. Services are a government structure not new, but a superstructure of what already exists. In our country, the Prime Minister's relationship with the ministers, unfortunately, is not what it should be. It's not a functional relationship. It's a supplementary relationship. It's a hierarchical relationship, and that's where the big problem starts. We, the Prime Minister, see him as the focus of policy production, but not the control of policy production. Here, the government has unfortunately linked the reform to a setback of the service control. And you know what happened? You isolated and deprived the oxygen of those who really can create. You did not give the necessary creative breath to all those who could be seized, to take their place, in other words to the ministers themselves, to create within a new framework. Minister, you are giving modern tools to the service of the state of staff. I want to comment on that, too. You give the management. You're giving stuff like that. But you don't tell them how to use them. You don't tell them you're letting them use them. But today, you have come here and told us, you have given us a definition of the state of service. And you said, of course, and I noted, that we are no longer in the 1980s. The ultimate state is not small and flexible. So you saw how you can't see us? When we say a small and flexible state, 'little' does not mean a number. It means simple in its structure. It means it's not dashing, it's not treey, you can't see it. And flexible means smart. It does not mean that it is alone, isolated and has absolutely no competence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You said, Minister, that the Constitution demands the Prime Minister to coordinate. You told us how this was done. You also confirmed that in committee. You've used it many times. Of course, you say that there is no deforestation of competences, but you understand the concept of coordination quite differently. I repeat, the coordination must have a centre, a report. He's not the boss to the employees. And finally, I tell you that for us when you mention in the bill the terms'modernisation' and'reformation', these terms acquire another dimension in your eyes and in our eyes, another dimension in your mind, another in our mind. Whenever we tried to modernise and reform, we brought terrible changes to democracy, to local government. We made far-reaching suggestions. We made policies when you left and the resignation voted against you, I remind you. We have another practice, we have another policy. They're our other eyes, they're our brains. It's us, it's you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u79	George Marinos has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is trying to give almost magical abilities to the so-called 'final state', but it is well known that the previous governments, the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA, have invested in similar objectives. They have talked about intersection in the functioning of the state, transparency and efficiency in the functioning of the governmental, central or local administrations, but the result is the same, it is the continuation of anti-popular policy for decades. The urban state can change forms, create new structures in the decision-making and control process. It can finally be baptized, flexible, modern, smart, with a lower or higher dose of digital technology, with more or less technocrats, but its class substance does not change. The rule of law has not been and will never be in terms of the labour market. Why? Because the urban state, with social democratic or liberal management, is the state of the few, it is the state of capitalists. His mission is to defend the interests of the sovereign bourgeoisie and to protect capitalist exploitation with a view to the working class and popular strata. This also confirms the draft law, which in fact has the consent of SYRIZA and the other parties, despite the secondary management objections. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is the rapporteur for the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on He's talking about the effective functioning of the state and the government. At the same time, the so-called best, so-called best practices of the European Union are being promoted. What are those who support all parties except the JRC? It is the practice that overthrows labour and insurance rights, which restricts the right to strike in all the Member States of the European Union. They are practices that increase the retirement age limit even in the seventy years. They are the practices that promote the so-called 'active ageing', which is currently particularly applicable in Germany and Britain, states that you are facing as standards. So there is one question. What does that mean in practice? This means an effective functioning of the state and the government for the implementation of anti-population policy, for the repression of working people's struggles, for the defence of the rot of this system and the ideological manipulation of the people. It means implementing NATO's aggressive directions. The Government promotes the final state, taking into account the problems of anemic development, the slowdown of the economy of the Member States of the European Union, the exacerbation of the conflicts of the capitalist system and the escalation of imperialist competitions, which occur strongly in our region and in the wider region, in the Persian Gulf, the Eastern Mediterranean, the Balkans and even the Aegean Sea. This is the mark it makes necessary, necessary to promote this bill, in order to strengthen the mechanism for managing the interests of the bourgeoisie. This is the stigma and what the Communist Party of Greece says is already confirmed. This must be well calculated by our people and must react in time. Some examples. The changes provided for in the financial mechanism aim to implement the policy that serves the objectives of the so-called 'enhanced economic governance' and the European Union's memorandums, the bloody surpluses up to 2060, the strict memorandum supervision, the competitiveness and profitability of the large economic groups, to give large enterprises and other privileges, tax exemptions and financing to invest in order to further the exploitation of workers. Changes to the mechanism of the Ministry of Labour and its related services serve to promote hard counter-terrorism measures against labour rights and trade liberties, to extend flexible forms of employment, to establish wages and pensions, to break down social and insurance rights. The government plan in the fields of health and education is linked to further commercialisation, privatisation, degradation and continuous removal from people's needs. Strengthening the role of the Ministry of Civil Protection is aimed at enforcing the law and order, in other words greater repression, in police rule. This is also linked to the decision to abolish asylum at universities. Upgrading the Governing Council of National Security means more involvement in the imperialist planning of the United States, NATO and the European Union and, before the gates, the continuation of the so-called'strategic dialogue' and the extension of the so-called 'Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement' with the United States that puts our people in new adventures. That's what the state is serving. It is necessary to deepen the popular criterion and understand that the interests of the working class, the people's strata, the youth do not fit within the urban state and the governments of capital. The need for the labour-lover state, the labour-people's power, which will be the responsibility of the workers, raises through the suffering that our people are suffering and will then experience. This debate - that is what the JRC says - needs to be opened in the workplaces, in the working neighborhoods, in the education areas, everywhere, making use of experience both from previous anti-popular governance, as well as from the current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u81	Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech from the Step of the House, and I am pleased that it concerns a bill for which I have also followed the debate in the committee responsible. It was a debate that, despite the ideological differences among members, I can judge - despite my very small experience - as an extremely constructive one. We are therefore called today on to discuss and vote on the bill introduced by the Ministry of State regarding the reorganisation of the state, so that, according to the terms of the government and the rapporteur, Mr Gerapetritis, we have a functioning and efficient state. Such an effort, ladies and gentlemen, at the theoretical level, would not find anyone otherwise than us as Mera25. However, the problem arises when one looks at the bill closer and reads behind the lines. So, ladies and gentlemen, the main problem, the dominant negative element in the legislation in question? It is the over-concentration of responsibilities on the face of the Prime Minister now becoming the dominant pole of all the functions of the state. ERT, General Secretariat of Information, Athenian News Agency, S.A. are only some of the structures and services that Mr. Mitsotakis will control directly, and will also have the final decision on the staffing of many of the new services that will be created by the adoption of this bill. Thus, the Prime Minister is turning into an absolute sovereign of everything, from communication to government agencies. At the same time, in order to serve the purpose of converting the state into a final provision for the creation of a body with powers - and very clearly the size of a super-ministerial office - the presidency of the government, which will control, intervene and run under the pretext of coordination and which has as its instrument the monitoring of the control of all public services and the Ministry. We are talking about a government, because it is essentially a creation that has five general secretariats, a special secretariat, will be served by a multitude of officials - a hundred posted, thirty seconded and even three hundred forty jobs - who may be either permanent civil servants or private officials or even journalists. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about parties positions and nothing else, since both the selection criteria and the employment relations remain out of line. At the same time, in addition to the positions of the Secretary-General and of the Special Secretaries who already exist, a post of a secretary from the public authorities is institutionalised, but in fact it will have the management responsibility of the entire Ministry, from its duties to the tenders and up to all the conventions it will establish. However, while both the Minister of State and the Government underline at every opportunity given their confidence in the APRC and in the State mechanism, a key criterion for the selection of the secretary is the personal interview that will take place before the final selection. Although, after the debate within the committee responsible, the factors of this moleculosis have changed, it remains the problem that after one, as stated in the bill,'structured' - whatever this may mean, this very subjectively interpreted term - an interview, the person who runs essentially and practically every ministry will be chosen. Really, how can an interview's objectivity be ensured? How can it be ensured that the choice will ultimately not be party? How can one be sure that candidates are absolutely unlikely to learn the questions of this structured interview and be able to adapt their answers accordingly? These and many other questions remain unanswered from the text of the bill. Another problematic issue raised is the establishment of the National Transparency Authority which will incorporate all the audit bodies, such as the Inspectorate General and the Public Administration Auditors, health inspectors, public works, etc. The problem that this administrative unification can cause is rather than solve to give birth to and nourish even greater bureaucracy and worsen the entire process of controls. It remains to be seen whether it will ultimately serve the purpose for which it is created or whether it will be a hard attempt to inactivate these control mechanisms in the altar of the free market and the neoliberal way of thinking that governs the entire legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 is an electoral arm in Greece of the pan-European movement for the democratisation of Europe, of Diem25, the main pillar of whose political proposal is transparency everywhere, in meetings, in minutes, and in terms of decisions which directly or indirectly affect the lives of citizens and many. In fact, transparency was a central theme of the first campaign of the movement shortly after its creation in 2016. As can easily be seen from all of this, given the opacity of the choice of persons who will serve the President of the Government and the other institutions that are planning to create this bill of staff, the choice of secretaries, the choice of the minutes of the Ministerial Councils to be secret for thirty years, as well as the archives of the Prime Minister and indeed, with a time scale, but also the opacity that characterises the National Transparency Authority itself, Mera25 can do nothing but vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u83	Mrs. Rapt, will you talk now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u84	Later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u85	We will give the floor to the Members. Mr Stratos Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what is the role of politics? In my opinion, the constant effort to improve the standard of living of citizens. How does that work? It's political. Who chooses policies? Obviously the citizens through the elections. And citizens - be careful - choose Prime Minister and Parliament. The Prime Minister chooses the ministers. And we have a Prime Minister who, in unsuspecting time, said that governments must have an absolute sense of their temporaryity and give a great deal of time. With great importance to time, they must make every day, every minute, every hour every second, so that they can implement their policies. That makes the bill for the final state. It enables the Prime Minister, in a pre-centralised system and of course through the Ministerial Council, to implement the policies for which the Greek people have chosen us. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Also, in forming his government something important succeeded. I have always believed, and I believe that we should combine technocratic adequacy in politics. Unfortunately, not all political technocratic adequacy are available to them. Nor are all technocrats capable of having political competence. So it has achieved a mix of choices at the level of people we have a government that has both political and technocratic adequacy. Anyone who works out on the free market or has contact with organisations knows very well that there is always the concept of control and targeting. Obviously there is what we call project management, what some here in the Chamber reject after abomination. It is also a fact that, when we make an effort, we must always have the infrastructure, we must have the procedures, of course, the faces. The Greek state has infrastructure, it does not have procedures and, above all, it does not have control procedures for policies. Note: This blue envelope that was on every minister's desk wasn't an envelope you didn't participate for. Most of them had. They were divisions. In this way, the government managed to mitigate the so-called hundred days and make them less than thirty. In the next blue envelope there will be in six months, obviously, the Ministers will also be involved and what you say is only done from the top to the bottom, it will also have been done from the bottom. Of course, I did not see any particular criticism on the subject of the Secretary-General. Anyone who has served in governments knows that through the Secretary-General there will be too much weight out of the political leadership of the ministries and, of course, there is an extremely remarkable process for their choice. Also, the government's decision to remain in place by the directors and this should be welcomed as a move in the right direction. After all, Mr. Spirtzi, the general directors you found were basically in the Ministry of Infrastructure selected on merital criteria, which is why you kept most of them in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u87	We're adorable. Absolutely pitiful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u88	That is why the Minister who is in front of them knows that, and that is why he has maintained them, and that is why he is working with them now. As far as transparency is concerned, the Minister has explained this very thoroughly. I think that all this fragmentation of services was not in the interest of transparency. It's a move in the right direction. Also, whoever we were in governments knew there was a matter of good legislation. So the government's move in this direction solves a problem. I think that from now on, the bills will really be much better work. Finally, I refer to the Minister who has not mentioned an article in 60, paragraph 2, which, in my opinion, is the definition of reform. In this article it is forbidden for the administration to legislate retroactively for anything that is burdening business. Note: It is a definition of reform, because I have lived through the free market for years and I have seen businesses and professionals being destroyed, because the state constantly legislates retrospectively. This, Minister, must be indicated in any way we can. It is the definition of reform. To Mr Castanides, I have only to say that on the right there has never been any question of 'HAVE'. I have always said and congratulated PASOK - in KINAL today - on 'GENERAL'. As regards PPC, for which the President of Greek Solution said a few things, I inform him, because he may not know about it, that in any case anyone who wants to invest in PPC or in the Greek market will see its elements from the audit firms and does not play a part in the way in which the Minister raises the PPC issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. As far as the choice of the SPS commander is concerned, I think he is a man from the free market who knows his sector very well. Besides, you in the LAPD of Officerial Response, I don't know on what criteria you've appointed a journalist. Finally, to the dear former President of Parliament who said that the celebration for 1821 should not be made in terms of nationalism, I would like to answer: Yes, but tell us what terms you want to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much Mr Simopoulos. Mr. Dimitrios Vartzopoulos has the floor from New Democracy - next door the Thessalonians fell - and Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis was prepared by SYRIZA, and then Mr. Viliardos, a parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution, will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that what we are negotiating at the moment is perhaps the most innovative and radical attempt to change the way the state operates. It is a bill that truly deepens, extends, modernises Law 4109/2013, the law that founded the first General Secretariat of Coordination of the Greek State on Government of New Democracy and PASOK and whose structure I had the honour of being the first Secretary-General. What did that law provide for? It provided for the operation of a permanent administrative structure, which would be fully supported by scientific, administrative, technical and government centre, the Prime Minister. We have to say that we have followed the French administrative model by adopting the way in which the General Secretariat of the French Government operates, of course amending its functions so that they can be adapted to Greek data. In addition to the Prime Minister's General Secretariat at that time, which supported his personal political action and the Government's General Secretariat, which followed the legislation from their statement to the House and their resolution, the General Secretariat for the Coordination of Government's Work came to monitor the planning and implementation of all actions between political intention and implementation by regulatory and regulatory acts. What we tried to do then was to create a coherent way of monitoring the government's work. In other words, there were provisions for annual ministries' programmes, annual ministries' plans, on which their political and operational planning was submitted. There were instruments and ways of monitoring quarterly and annual implementation of this programme. There were ways of controlling the effects of all these regulatory and regulatory acts in general. There were ways, in particular, through the Interministerial Committees, even the Secretary-General's capacity to adopt implementing acts for the resolution of disputes between the Ministries, the discovery of synergies and overlapping. All this had been tested in a coherent way and one should say that there was also an innovative and innovative software era, the "DELOS", which was supported by the Prime Minister's General Secretariat for Strategic Planning. Why am I saying all this? I am not saying it just for the history of the matter, I say it for the following reason: when we left January 2015, the Directorate-General for Coordination served about twenty-five people, if I remember well. I learned then that this General Coordinating Secretariat was transferred, that is, fifty more five employees were transferred. What does that mean here? That means, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that even though you seem to be reacting to this arrangement, you have honoured the Secretary-General at the time. And not only did you honour her, you kept her in her place, she's still there, Queen Wisdom 15, sixth floor. In fact, not only did you honour it, not just did you use it - and that is to your credit - but you have increased it, you have given it importance, you have given it substance, you have extended it. You have used - and this is also to your honor - your top executives, such as Mr Vernardakis - who will follow and I hope he will say his experiences from this structure - with essential importance to its existence. So why is today's disagreement? In any case, the question is that the bill we are debating today is indeed the completion, extension, deepening, effective implementation of this first law that we have passed, which we have implemented some six years ago. I will not sincerely refer to the letter of the law. Every one of us knows that. I would like to refer to its four only political features. The first political feature of this law is the strengthening of popular sovereignty. The people are voting for politicians, voting for a party, which supports a government for its programme. The unified draft government policy, ladies and gentlemen, is the only essential way for the people to monitor and see whether the government they have voted for, the fact that they have supported plans to do what they have promised. The monitoring bodies for the implementation of government policy are those which give the people - at regular intervals - the opportunity to see whether what they voted for and whether the people who voted actually implement what they have promised. Of course, the subsequent monitoring of the consequences of all regulatory and regulatory acts is what it is doing? It gives the people the final opportunity to decide whether what they voted on is right or not. A second unique political feature of this law: the evaluation of staff. Ladies and gentlemen, the first and only thing that this law does in essence is to enable all - and above all the people - to control civilian staff. The unified draft government policy enables us at the end of the year to see whether the government has succeeded or failed in its work. The action plans of the Ministries enable us at any time to assess the integrity of civil servants, political leaders. At the end of the year, we know whether this Minister and the Secretary-General did these things, which they had promised to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not truly forget what the Minister of State said at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, the then Minister for Administrative Reform and Professor of Constitutional Law Mr Antonis Manitakis, from the Democratic Left, referring to such issues. So the professor said that the only way to really assess the staff of any kind, whether politically or administratively, is to have action plans that will have quantified objectives as far as possible. The degree of implementation of these quantified objectives is the only truly reliable way to be able to obtain an assessment of the degree of competence of the staff concerned. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means that this way of operating and building the state that we are discussing today is possible, whenever we want it, to lead to a real assessment, a truly substantial and reliable assessment of all civil servants at every post in the hierarchy. The level of implementation of the action plans relating to his/her service to the extent that he/she has been assigned can very easily be derived immediately and easily from the degree of integrity of that staff member. Third, a unique political feature: the integrity and emancipation of the public administration. Indeed, in the best European practices, I would remind you of the institution of the German state secretaries, as they are said, who are either servants or parliamentarians and are essentially Undersecretaries, who really have the institution in our case, the institution of the Secretary-General, is the one that actually enables the public administration to stand on its feet, to have the place to develop its skills, to really have the place to operate at the highest technical level and to serve - take care - over time different governments. The pattern is this: Political personnel with the people's mandate sets political objectives and sets out how to achieve these political objectives. It has absolutely nothing to do with either who will implement these objectives or what technical means - and most of all financial instruments - will be used. It is the only way to give the administration the space to step on its feet and actually to work on a maximum level by serving different governments over time. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth only political feature of this bill is indeed the most hopeful one. I am referring - as strange as it may - to the new provision for the organizational structure of the ministries. In Article 33, paragraph 2, it says that Ministries are now structured in horizontal and support services and in general secretariats. It says, however, that they are also structured in regional services, which have local competence. With two words this means that this way of building the state creates the hope that we will have an end in the central state, but a completely decentralised state, as far as civil service is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, only when citizens' services leave the central state, they will be transferred to local government and, above all, to primary local government, only when the citizen can serve by the door of his home from one stop shops to anything that concerns him, only then can we be proud that we are living in a European modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. Mr Christoforos Vernardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite the well-documented intentions and the unanimous theoretical position that you have made and with which we could agree, I think you are in danger of getting lost in translation between theory and political or administrative reality. I call that absolutely trustworthy. You risk first of all getting lost in the translation of neoliberalism that, as you know, is dogmatically an allergy to public administration and you are also at risk of being lost in the translation of the old right-wing mechanism that has learned to live with customer systems. I would remind you, in relation to your analysis of the administrative and political structure, that the New Democracy, which voted against the policy of administrative secretaries, Mr.4369, was here, with the flagrant position of Mr. Voridis, who said that the secretaries should be members of the governmental bodies, that it was right, so it should be, and then also accused the government of attempting an indirect party-party hybrid. That was the position then of the New Democracy, two, three years ago. We therefore need to see how you are now going to balance between a plan and an implementation. But let us now go to some more specific issues. I will answer three, four questions which I think arise from the bill and from the analysis. First of all, is the bill modernising? I would like to tell you that it has at least three major deficiencies. For example, while you are talking in Article 45 about the perfect functioning of the ministers’ offices, you do not institutionalize them. It should not once be in the functioning of the governmental bodies that these offices should be institutionalised, that is to say they should have the function and the process of cabining, such as in France, England, the European Union and so on.Huh? On the contrary, what are you doing? You define general responsibilities, posterior and journalists. This in a continuous flow and a continuous repetition. Second matter. The element of the modernisation of public administration is the new branch. There can be no real modernisation in public administration unless there is a huge reform effort to unify these around a thousand branches in the public sector which many have backwards or double names and which are a serious brake on staffing, mobility and so on. On the other hand, in Article 104, you are setting up a new branch, a new management executive, but not part of a whole concept of what public administration should be. So, those who don't join this sector will not finally be management officials? Are we going to have a distinction in terms of PPPs that are non-executive overall in this area? The third issue is about what Mr, Mr Kastanidis, the rapporteur of KINAL, has pointed out, what is a report on competences? It was right to say that all the problem of the pluralism or involvement of the assembly is often at high levels, not at low levels. So here, when we have the creation of a superstructure, such as the presidency of the government, at the same time as the ministries, we have at a high level - and a thousand percent is to be produced - an enormous derogation from responsibilities and responsibilities in some way. Why? For the ministries and their structures, i.e. the directorates-general, departments are at the level of each public policy makers. So when you take responsibility and transfer it to a superstructure, it is almost certain that this very big problem of competence will arise. Fourth issue. Is this famous colonization going on? We have to say a few things here. Is that a problem? You said this indirectly, you suggested it in your analysis, saying that I have a political structure that goes up to this point and a structure that needs to be dealt with in a number of other matters, to be distinguished. What didn't happen until today? That the political structure has entered the administrative structure and, of course, the administrative structure has been indirectly involved in politics. Is this a process going on? Here you will allow me to tell you this. If you're on this line in a way, why do you remove the executive record? The register of staff shall be a record of all the living, trained, identifiable administrative and political personnel of the public administration of high qualifications, trained and so on under the responsibility of the AACC. By the way, if you do, it should be foreseen, because there is a procedure for the award of the IAS which has this responsibility for transparency, information and so on. Secondly, the question of impertinence. I imagine that the presidency of the government, this superstructure which is formed, has the logic of Chancellorship. But if we have this logic, why is it not based on the register of executives or a similar practice if you don't like the register? Because if it is not done in this way, that is, if it does not create consensus conditions, it is clear that the next Prime Minister, even if he comes from the same party, may have to change this whole structure, that is to say, a structure, and that is a process of partyisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need three more minutes, Mr. President. By the way, I should like to say - and to remind Mr Varzopoulou, who spoke earlier from the Directorate-General for Coordination - that the Directorate-General for Coordination had a posting procedure by means of an administrative board procedure, there was no derogation from the provisions. Isn't that right, Mr. Vardzopoulos? You remember that. He had a process together. Therefore, while we have a transparent procedure, this transparent procedure does not transfer it to the new body, which is set up by way of derogation. More than four hundred forty people, of whom three hundred forty are civil servants. Which civil servants? With which digital organogram, with which exactly process and so forth. I would also like to tell you this in the context of party unions. A moment ago, in the Standing Committee which discussed the other bill, Adonis Georgiadis, defending his amendment to the Competition Committee, gave Mrs Thanos the status of a party executive. Why? We know that Mrs Thanos was the head of the Prime Minister's Legal Office, which is an institutional position rather than a party. In this sense, I am saying this, and I would point out this, because, by analogy with the Committee on Transparency, the new principle of transparency on what basis can the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council appoint the head? And what guarantee of independence and non-partyisation does this process have? So it can't be mine and yours again. Fourth question: privatisation. Transmigrant, posted in positions of responsibility, posted as scientific associates, third category don't forget that. But you said exactly that the problem of administrative self-organisation, so to speak, namely self-determination of administration, is a major issue. But do we not know that the poster, and indeed this whole story of the poster, actually constitute an administration?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u93	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u94	When, for example, 25% of the officials of the government's presidency will be posthumous, do we not have quasi-privateism? But the most important thing is not that. The most important thing, in my opinion, is the predictions and provisions you have about the conflict of interest. My personal view here is that it must be a serious political issue. I think you should change that provision. In your own legislation, conflicts of interest are defined as very loose as anything that can objectively affect the impartial performance of tasks. By the way, let me say here that if we had not established the legislation on rotating doors and conflicts of interest, I am very afraid that today you would come and go beyond it. After all, that is what the choices made in various areas show. Our provision, which you have obviously seen, but you have removed the critical issues, is as follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u95	But please finish, Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u96	In two minutes, Mr. President. A conflict of interest constitutes any situation in which there is a private interest capable of affecting the impartial and objective performance of their tasks. Private interest shall mean any advantage to the same spouses, spouses or cohabiters, relatives from blood or stress directly on the line unlimitedly and on the side and on the quadrant as well as on the natural or legal persons associated with them. This means avoiding conflicts of interest. While we have had two years' ban on a profession in which it was supposed to have been administered and for three years the obligation to make a statement of financial interests and a special declaration of property, you are abolishing this. You are limiting it in one year only by a simple statement to a ethics committee. In my opinion, you do not respond to the major issue that is being discussed today in all modern public administrations, conflict of interest, i.e. a mixture between private and completely private interests, I would say, self-interest, individual interests now of those who have an administration in relation to the public interest. In America, for example, any profession in the field of liability that it exercised public authority is forbidden for five years. In France less. So you want to do this here less because we're a smaller country? But it can't be a year with a simple statement and if she doesn't get the authorisation, it's believed she's taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Bernardakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u98	One last thing and I'm done with it. Coordinating disability mechanism. It's a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Bernardakis, don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Varzopoulou, you've spoken a little bit more, sorry. I was watching and you weren't given the time. So I'm going over it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u101	This is what happened to Mr Varzopoulou, and I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u102	I'm not saying it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u103	You didn't tell us how you guys put the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u104	Please, let it be completed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u105	That is a criticism you could make and you would be right if you followed the same line.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u106	Don't answer, please! Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u107	But here, what are you doing? You take a legislative initiative and dehydrate it. And then we need to discuss the same thing again and again all the time. Public sector means productive, innovative, functional, means other income policy. You must keep this in mind. The question of aid should be raised in terms of recruitment, but also in the coming years of wage support in the public sector. Total public sector and public administration growth means personal and good wages. We must remember this and attempt in the coming years a real modernisation and operational upgrading of the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Bernardakis, you abused my kindness. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassilios Viliardos, then Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis, from SYRIZA, then Mr. Kelles. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we expected from the first substantial government bill, from the 'Financial State: The organisation, functioning and transparency of the Government, the Government and the Central Public Administration', would be to agree at least with its custodial title. We expected it to be mentioned in a small and flexible rule of law with a complete separation of legislative, executive and judicial powers, with a lesser concentration of powers on the Prime Minister, with lower operating costs, with more democracy and less privileges for the ministers. What we have seen, however, is the very opposite, a larger and incomprehensible state with an organization that reminds of Chancellorship of other times, a reduced respect for the basic rules of a rule of law and an excessive concentration of powers on the Prime Minister who decides whether or not his ministers will submit to the courts, with a great confusion at the level of competence, with a much higher operating cost, with less democracy, with incredible privileges for the ministers, by facilitating the appointment of our 'our own children' even in state businesses as well as many others. So instead of seeing a smaller rule of law, we have seen an oversized state in a state that will be placed on the existing structure of the public, costing a lot more to Greek taxpayers. The large and incomprehensible state with higher operating costs was perceived even by FITCH, considering that on Friday it did not improve the assessment of the Greek economy, as New Democracy hoped and all of us, of course, who want the government to achieve in its work. In addition, the rating company reduced forecasts for growth in 2019 to 1,9 % from 2,3 % previously, due to the weak first quarter, the downturn in exports and weak private consumption. It expects growth to be at 2.2% for 2020 and 2.1% for 2021 when the government has set a target - and we hope it will succeed since it is certainly possible - 4%. In the Minutes, I make the relevant reference. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continuing, with regard to expenditure and saving of resources on the basis of the confusing data in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State - in which there is not a single table as such to facilitate us - there is a charge of EUR 3 million without bonuses and allowances, as well as a savings of EUR 2.4 million. However, on the basis of the clipboard calculation of the staff we have tried to do, it does not seem clear where this savings arise. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, in addition to the abolition or reorganisation of some of the responsibilities, the report mentions savings of 1.9 million from a reduction in posters. So we wondered where this savings are coming from, thinking that even if posters return to their organic positions, wages will not cease to be paid, while on the other hand many specialists are hired. Therefore, there should be a detailed analysis on the part of the General Accounting Office of the State and to draw safe conclusions. Furthermore, the new General Secretariat of the Presidency will have four hundred forty people, of whom 100 poster and three hundred forty recruits. Previously, in SYRIZA, the corresponding address had a hundred seventy - one persons, while the General Accounting Office of the State had not added any comparative tables, as it should have been, to see the differences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I present the answer of the then Deputy Minister in the Minutes about the people employed by SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, the Ministries provide for about eight hundred and fifty-six posts, resulting from Article 46 on the staff of the special offices. The estimate for eight hundred fifty-six is calculated here on the basis of the existing regime of eighteen Ministers, two alternates, twenty-nine Secretarys, eighteen Secretarys-General - one per ministry - and one special secretary, although they are more. Of these three hundred ninety are posthumous, all four hundred sixty-six associate recruitments. To compare my calculations, noting that in the previous government there must be a total of four hundred sixty-three people or almost half. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, in the new state, it will be employed for over three hundred, of which four hundred ninety post-harvest and eight hundred experts will be recruited. On SYRIZA there were six hundred and thirty - four persons in total, posthumous and special partners together. It is therefore added by the new government sixty-sixty-six or more than twice the number of people employed. I note here that the poster rose in the time of the memorials from a thousand eight hundred forty-four in 2009 to two thousand four hundred eighty-seven in 2017. I'm filing the relevant table for the posters in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In view of the above, the cost: firstly, the new government structure will bear 3 000 000 euros in the budget, without taking into account bonuses, allowances for existing staff or for the provision of services by private individuals under a project contract, which, for example, is provided for in Article 8(4) and, secondly, if it is considered on the basis of the number of recruited special partners who exceed the six hundred, i.e. three hundred in the Presidency and three hundred in the ministries, in addition to those of the previous government, with an average salary of EUR 25 000 per year, the burden would be close to about EUR 17 million. Is it true that this small state that said the New Democracy was planning an election campaign? Does it not remind the organisation of a national socialist state with a powerful Chancellor above the law and an authoritarian government that supports and supports the economic elite? To avoid misunderstanding here, we must mention that national socialism obviously has nothing to do with Hitler's application, just like communism has nothing to do with Stalin. Continuingly, we as a social liberal party are opposed to the extreme neoliberalism seen by the bill that the government wants to launch, against the propaganda mechanisms that it plans to create in every ministry, against the shed of our "ones" children by the staffing of the private offices, institutions and public enterprises, by the urgency procedure, as evidenced by the replacement of Mrs Thanos or Mr Chotsouros in "Greek Petroleum". On the contrary, we believe in the need to hold referendums with the gathering of hundreds of thousands of signatures on important national issues, as was, of course, the Ambassadors' Agreement or the Memorandums, the simple analogue, the total abolition of Article 86 of the Constitution on Responsibility of Ministers and the observance of Article 17 on the protection of private property which has been destroyed by the enforcement of the HISA. We also believe in the establishment of a constitutional court at last, noting that we are almost the only country that has no such thing, a true rule of law in which the citizens will have power and not those who often mislead it with fraudulent election promises. With regard specifically to the transparency in the draft law, which has been heard about ensuring that the Prime Minister abolishes the individual bodies of inspectors and appoints the first commander of the National Transparency Authority freely, without being bound by this law? How can there be transparency when the controller appoints his auditor? Furthermore, in relation to the sixth part and Article 113 on the setting up of a committee "Greece 2021" at a cost that has not been budgeted, as was the case with the organization of the Olympic Games, we consider that the best festival for the completion of the two hundred years since the liberation of our country would be the recovery of our national sovereignty that was lost at the latest by the signing of the criminal PSI, our real exit from the destructive policy of monuments and foreign surveillance. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we have not come out of the memoranda leading to our economy from bad to worse, regardless of governments, when we are obliged to produce beastly primary surpluses, over-taxing everyone, selling out the public property that has been transferred to the foreign overcrowd, having been mortgaged by the next century and confiscating private property. Of course, we are heading towards total bankruptcy if we do not find solutions to our glorious public debt that is constantly increasing, despite the primary surpluses and the sale of what we have and do not have, or the huge red private debt that has exceeded EUR 330 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u110	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u111	I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u112	Three minutes was your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u113	Secondary is six minutes and tritology is three more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u114	Six and three, nine minutes is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u115	Of course we must hurry to achieve this, since the global economic conditions have deteriorated, and we must not see our homeland completely undisturbed again, with an economy that continues to collapse, based on the launching of our trade deficit in -16.5% in the five-month period of 2019, which means even greater competitiveness. Of course, we are still underprivileged by foreigners, since we do not even claim the payment of war redress and the German mortgage, which exceeds EUR 300 billion and which would really solve the problems of our twin debts. Of course, we remain an inappropriate debt colony imposed on it by foreigners. After all, it seems very clear on the subject of PPC, which Mr Hadjidakis has been constantly deceiving with his public statements, to sell at a degrading price, instead of doing something to change the SYRIZA agreement from 2015 or the lignite agreement. Does she perform a death contract? We only hope that something similar will happen to the Greek Petroleum, which the government has changed their successful administration with another that had failed in the past and which we must not forget that they have a licence to extract our potential energy reserves, so it would be unacceptable to privatise them. I'm presenting the C.O.D. in the Minutes. ELPE in 2014, its losses and its results today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In order to achieve this, however, we do not need holidays but development, without which we will never solve any of our problems. Perspectives for growth exist, since our GDP has not only shrinked by 25% or by 60 billion euros, but much more, based on the average growth rate of the rest of Europe, which was 10%, when Greece's distance with them has exceeded 35%. Let us not forget that we have even been through Romania, from which in 2009 we had more than EUR 100 billion more of GDP, and today we have been over it. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We can, however, manage to do so by increasing the Public Investment Programme by investing in the EUR 5 billion annually of the NRP which has been allocated to us by 2023 and which the government has rightly committed itself to doing. It is a sum that, with appropriate leverage, can increase our GDP by more than EUR 15 billion every year, so public revenues by almost EUR 4.5 billion a year or almost EUR 1.5 billion a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Villardo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u117	In conclusion, we hope that the government will stop making moves of impression by organising celebrations and by continuing or urgent bills and dealing with the real problems of Greece and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many are the points and the issues of today's draft law on the ultimate state that brought together the criticism of colleagues from all sides of this House. For the economy of time and because of my agreement with SYRIZA's previous colleagues and considering that both Mr Kastanides' approach from the Change Movement and Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 have enough positive elements, I would just like to focus on three of the issues of the bill. The first is that the current Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is an entire structure, the presidency of the government, at his service. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has spoken a lot about the conditions of state concentration and control. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is that, behind the multitude of provisions, through the extremely detailed nature of the operation of the various structures and through a complex and bureaucratic grid of small structures, the ultimate state that is the objective, in my opinion, is becoming dysfunctional. And the third thing I would like to point out in relation to the bill we are discussing - it is probably not as heavy as the other two points I mentioned - is that, in the procedures for coming to Parliament, there were not even any objections. The consultation started after the draft law was tabled. It's a sign, too, of the concept of good legislature. It is also the mark of the ready-to-government, of the ready-to-government, to lay the foundations for another course of Greece. So that's how we got to this draft law. The new Republic's rapporteur said that emblematically. It is a response to the demand "Kyriakos, make a state", several MPs said. Really, Minister, do we want over-concentration of powers or control over over-concentration of powers? And, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide it from you that I am concerned about this. Is it accidental that this is the first bill with which the government begins its legislation? Is the choice of this bill random? Before I move on to answer the question, which essentially puts the finger on the type of suns, which, in other words, takes on the substance of the issue, I should like to make a first point of view on the public admission of Mr Gerapetti in favour of the Anglo-Saxon model. From this Step a moment ago, he described it as a 'bed of the modern political system'. He has repeatedly tried to justify his position in favour of the Anglo-Saxon model. And it is essentially about the essence of what is behind the curtains, I mean behind the articles and paragraphs of today's bill. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy, on the pretext of so-called extremism - however, faithful to re-population, which we are seeing particularly in a series of transmigrant positions, whether general secretaries and directors-general - brings a bill with the main feature of the intense ideological and political signal about the indirect, silent, and a turn to a neoliberal, neutronic - I would say - the structure and functioning of the state. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this is not due to ignorance or to ignorance. This is not a politically colourless, odourless and unsatisfactory answer to "Kyriakos, make a state". It is not a pure one - let me say the word - seeking to monitor the activities of the Ministers, to monitor the activities of the Ministries. This is, in my opinion, a deliberately methodical strategy. I would remind you that a huge concentration of power has taken place during the thirteenth period within the central government. A theorist of political thought, who is well aware of this period, John Grey writes in his book about the delusionalities of world capitalism: "The centralisation of the British state in the thirteenth period was not a mistaken political manipulation that could be avoided. It was a prerequisite for the construction of the free market.' Here, it's the essence we're finally touching. As we know, behind such centralism, therefore, the thirteenth period is not just the establishment of the free market, but also the construction of hard neoliberalism. The current bill also comes from these political plans. The start of the new government's legislature is the beginning of the establishment of a neoliberal model of governance, which, in my view, will, in fact, be a strong police force, as it will appear in the next period, with the aim, ladies and gentlemen, of imposing all the basic characteristics of the public and the many in favour of the private and the few. Ladies and gentlemen, history teaches that the absolute control of state institutions by the central government is a pretext of political choices that will either create or exacerbate existing social and economic inequalities. The draft law, therefore, which we are debating today and tomorrow evening, has a clear social footprint, has a clear class mark, such as a social footprint and a class mark, and the opposite bank, the Left's proposal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing down with this - the whole democratic and progressive space has an obligation in the coming period to highlight all these aspects, but, above all, to stand frontal and effective against them. We can only say, in my view, that we will do something for the two hundred years from 1821, but also for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy. Immediately afterwards, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos and Mr. Famelos will follow. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a deep part of the country's modern administrative history. Our government has managed to bring together, harmonise and consolidate legislation forty years. These are diverse provisions, which have caused multiple obstacles to the implementation of public policies in the context of individual government planning. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis today brings to the vote not only a law on public administration but the new administrative map of Greece, a manual, as the Minister of State pointed out, which brings together all academic experience in relation to the principles and practices of administration and the appropriate tools of administrative science that will make our state modern and effective. I shall begin with the division of responsibilities between the Minister and the Prime Minister, as well as the establishment of the presidency of the Government. First of all, the administrative order is restored in accordance with our Constitution. The Ministerial Council is strengthened by unloading the Prime Minister, which will more effectively ensure unity, coordination, direction and supervision of government work. A key element in the functioning of the Ministerial Council is that the decisive powers of its members are strengthened on substance, without having to validate post-confidence decisions, while the periodicity of its meetings ensures the deeper interaction of its members, pluralism and democraticity of the Government. In addition, government work will be implemented at rapid pace and targeted actions through collective governmental bodies. I would like to focus here, in particular, on the forecasts for the KYSEA, where this is clearly foreseen, which I have also pointed out for a very long time now. The country acquires a national security strategy on an institutionalised basis. That is why, Minister, because I am not in the Committee on Civil Liberties, I propose that, from the Step forward, you take another step forward and include a provision for the adoption of an appropriate institutional text, which will have a legal obligation and a legal duration. As far as the presidency of the government is concerned, it is now time for the country to acquire a service that supports the Prime Minister and government work on a permanent basis with all the necessary cognitive facilities, ensuring the coordination of cross-sectoral public policies. This is specified here, after promoting the institutional dimension and ensuring continuity of the central public administration, in the light of the public interest. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, of the four hundred forty-forty employees, the three hundred forty will be civil servants and only one hundred will be posthumous. Let me mention, in relation to the administrative costs of the bill, the prefective structures of the previous government, Mr Polakis, they worked for a hundred fifty poster, while we predict only a hundred. In addition, the general and special secretariats are reduced from ninety-three to fifty-eight. Only for posters the cost savings are calculated by the State General Accounting Office at EUR 1.9 million, while the bill as a whole estimates savings of EUR 2.4 million. At the same time, the distinction between civil and service administrations is served. The Ministries' Secretaries to be appointed through ASP, in conjunction with their coordination services and the strengthening of the responsibilities of the Directors-General, are an extremely important reform that demonstrates the government's confidence in Greek civil servants and ensures the continuity of the administration regardless of party convictions. With regard to the planning of governmental work, with the unified draft government policy, the association of the Ministries' Action Plans, is determined by the Political Monitoring Committee for Government Work and the implementation of public policies through synergies and interactions of the Ministries and their final structures. In addition, this draft law ensures for the Greek public administration the principles of good governance and good administration, as well as the principles of good legislation, i.e. promoting legality, transparency, accountability, efficiency, efficiency, necessity, subsidiarity, merit and professionalism in conjunction with the quality of legislative regulations and democratic legitimacy. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of the legislative process, as well as the treatment of pluralism and codification of law, are two top objectives for the modern and competitive state. The Presidency of the Government will play a major role in this project through the Secretariat-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs and the Central Codification Committee. Furthermore, as the Minister responsible pointed out, among the main objectives of our government is to increase transparency. In combination with internal control units per Ministry, we proceed to the National Transparency Authority, which will absorb the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption, the Public Administration Inspector General, the Public Administration Inspectors' Body, the Health and Welfare Inspectors' Body, the Public Work Inspectors' Body, as well as the Transport Inspectors' College. The new principle will be in line with the international environment and will be the Greek Anti-Fraud Coordination Agency in cooperation with the relevant European authority, which will develop a wide network of controls throughout the public sector. The administration of the Authority will be independent in the performance of its tasks and will be chosen by an independent committee, and will be involved by the Audit Committee and the national audit and accountability coordination body, which will enhance the quality of the audits and, respectively, occupy the entire range of audit bodies in the rest of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government is consistent with its election commitments, which we are implementing quickly and even earlier than we have foreseen in the timetable for our programme. Today we are taking a great step forward in order to ensure a strong and competitive homeland in Europe and in the world for our children and the new generation. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy leave a strong footprint on the administrative history of the country and we are still at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, too. Mrs Sia Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. It has been added before Mr Famello.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u124	Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I would like, with your permission, to ask a detailed question to the Minister for Legislative Affairs that has been tabled in relation to what has been said in committee. At number 62, we felt from the debate in committee that the number of posters and seconded persons is being locked down at the number of three hundred forty. In Legislative Number 62 we read: 'As far as the Presidency of the Government is concerned, the limit laid down in Article 29(1) of this Treaty applies, without taking into account the number of servants in the publication of this at the time of publication in the services which constitute the President of the Government, who have completed at least three years of service'. That means over three hundred forty, no number. I would like you to clarify that to us, so that we know how many partners will ultimately be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u126	Minister, will you answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u127	Can I answer later on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u128	As you wish, Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite the very good effort you have made to present us with a philosophy of the bill, which has the beginning, the middle and the end - coherent - you will allow me to disagree, with all due respect, on many of the things you have said. Firstly, the bill is dominated by rush. Apart from the fact that it has become an elementary, substantiated consultation, I would like to know why time-consuming efforts have been made - and by our government - to limit the party state as well and to have transparency, etc., are being thrown into the bench of the unpurpose. Secondly, the lack of regulation and the ineffectiveness of regulation. There are several conflicting arrangements, there are arrangements that create confusion. But let me tell you the very simple thing from my constituency. The College of Public Administration Inspectors in Patras was first repealed and in the second phase returned. Luckily, I'd say. This also shows a great deal of sloppy. I'd like to go to third place. Inefficiency and bureaucracy. I have not been persuaded by any response from you about this bureaucratic poster monster created with the presidency of the government, but also with the posters to the ministers. You have referred to the pathogens of public administration. We all agree on that. I would, however, see populism, because legislation which has tried to limit and respond to these pathogens is not taken into account at all. But I would like to focus on one point, because the other is said by the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and my party and other parties, the cynicism of power. If we have suffered from something for four and a half years - you are not responsible for it, to God! - it was all this mud we ate for post-mortem employees, not only, but also for family rule and all that. A whole system worked in that direction. Because I have a personal experience of this mud, I have to say a few words. I owe it to people who had no way of defending themselves. Do you know what the European Parliamentary Party of New Democracy said? "The mud was selfish for the posters. We won the election." I suffered it and people suffered it without being responsible. For example - I will say it for history and not for any other reason - my husband since 1992 in the strategic planning of the Ministry of Justice, which many ministers and Secretary-General - not SYRIZA's, formerly - has eaten the mud of the world when he has been head of his political office. And do you know who ate mud, including everyone else, in the European elections in the pre-election period? He ate mud from a lady whose husband was a candidate for the mayor of Athens, the husband's candidate's uncle and husband's candidate's mother. This is 'do not forget the Right', what the Right means. "The perfect ones are us, the rest of the mud"! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So this is the state of inexperienced posters and the ministers and so on. has an old technology with new materials. This technology is the pathogens you have burned, but it is completely reproducible with new materials, which means a neoliberal state, a neoliberal state that hits politicisation and increases communism, that is to say it completely undermines the public sector, because the public sector is primarily a political sector and a policy producer. So here we have a neoliberal state. And I will not say with which evaluation criteria the poster will be recruited. Our people had degrees and all that, but they weren't excellent. Here without degrees in private companies, they can even become governors in very serious institutions, such as the NSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u130	Because they're excellent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u131	Because they're perfect, exactly, yeah. But that is what the New Democracy is saying. Once he says it, you're excellent. If he doesn't say it, you're nothing. But I want to stand at a point. What a state is always has a mission and an ideology. That can't be. And you know it better than I do. Where does this mission and ideology condensate? It concentrates on Article 113, which relates to the two hundred years of the Greek Revolution and is even more condensed in the famous paragraph 3 on a single image and identity, which must be shaped and disseminated in the public administration and the general public. You said a magic word, which I have noted, but on it was also my comment on this paragraph. You said 'branding'. I would like to thank you, Minister, with all due respect - but you will allow me, because I am a historian - that branding, branding and branding have products, not a country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It happened, because I saw this provision, to hear a gentleman's speech how to make rebranding Greece and the Greeks and even said, because he was also the manager of a large multinational, how he left aside for this multinational certain features and brought some new evidence to make rebranding. A national anniversary of such a range is a very large station that gives an opportunity to a nation to look forward and backward at the same time. And this opportunity is to see how many times this mirror was crushed in which it was mirrored in this two-century course. It is not possible with a branding, which will decide some, to create a single account and a single image. With what materials? If we take the recent Prespecies Agreement and who worked these materials and in what ways, we are not too optimistic because what kind of rebranding we have in this case. I, Minister, want to tell you one thing. If the government really wanted to honour this anniversary, it shouldn't have rushed. He said the former President of Parliament what this House is up to. I'd tell you what the universities are up to, which we had to take into account. We are not going to appoint a president, to have a reproduction of the Olympic Games with the great tanks and the timeless single narrative, as some people want, of the Greek nation, of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u132	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u133	In a country that comes out of the crisis, which has such a long duration, with many wounds in its body, this anniversary must be celebrated in the way it deserves, not with the one who prepares an operational state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Psychoeuu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I wish everyone a good parliamentary term and everyone in the Chamber and I start immediately. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the first bill tabled by the present government to the House concerning the so-called state of government. A state of purely neoliberal strategy, technocratic, which will operate literally and transportly as an anonymous company. This is because it cultivates a model of pre-centralism, which substantially reduces the role of the ministers and Parliament, despite the good intentions and the opposite statements by the Minister. I would like to say at this point, of course, that if you enter a time machine and think about what would have been said or written in the central media, if the government of SYRIZA had brought such a bill, Minister, believe me, you cannot count on mud, vulgarity, confiscation and murder of characters that would have been suffered by the accelerating Minister or fellow Members: Maduro, Kim Yong Un, Erdogan and everything else you can imagine in a, I would say, circumvention of any political culture. It was important for the committees and for another reason: because it showed that the Civic Opposition and the rest of the Opposition respected the process, made targeted and processed proposals and - to your credit - several of them were accepted. But don't take it for granted. It's been the data all along against the SYRIZA government. A leading demonstration of this direction of the new state of staff is, therefore, that a massive staffing mechanism is being created, consisting of four hundred forty people and will be the governor of Maximus. How, then, can we not wonder that this structure is being structured in order to settle further, or that, in addition, this number is not being made to degrade further public structures, as is customary in these cases? Let me remind you what SYRIZA's government has done. The government of SYRIZA made an executive record, applied the mobility that tried to make a more proportional distribution of staff and, of course, made recruitments in neural areas, where the previous government had made redundancies, with the people who stayed on the road or with the 2008 and 1998 SAAP competitions, who had never made progress. At the same time, the independence of the National Transparency Authority is perforated, with your direct placement of your own person in the position of commander, and the position of Public Administration Inspector General has been scrupulously abolished. They are further downgrading and abolishing the operational capacity of very important control mechanisms - the IAEA, the IAEA, environmental inspectors, health inspectors - and, of course, this shows in practice your favor for the interests which you have served for years and which give the signal to relaunch employers' arbitrariness, immunity, tax evasion and impunity, and, of course, to entrust private companies and offices to do the work of the hard core of the state. You referred forward to the Anglo-Saxon model, but, Minister, here we do not legislate in vain, nor does the Greek reality have to do exactly or at least about the reality in Great Britain. There have been a number of pathogens here for forty years now, we need to know about them, to face up to political responsibilities for this. There is fragmentation, customer relations and we cannot say, because it has not been proved that by concentrating or merging audit services we will have a better effect. The opposite is going to happen. They will not control anything and that is why the private companies will come to do audits at the appropriate time. I shall now refer to the part that concerns me, the immigration policy. L.4375/2016, which we brought to a very critical period for the refugee and considering the specific needs, provided for the establishment of a General Secretariat for Migration Policy, General Secretariat for Reception and a Special Secretariat for the Asylum Fund. So you are now following up the recent President-in-Office's Decree and abolishing these secretaries and, of course, the position of a Secretary-General appointed by the formal qualifications and procedure of the AACC. Of course, you have taken care to do this from the very beginning, incorporating this ministry into the Ministry of Civil Protection and showing your direction, that you will not deal with it with humanity, with integration and with respect for international and European law, but using tough prevention practices, extreme repression and leading thousands of people to the margin, plundering social cohesion. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would now like to refer to an article which was one of the things that has been thoroughly worked out in the Committee on Article 15 of the bill, which provides for the special obligations of members of the Government and State Secretarys. In paragraph 3, therefore, it is stated that a member of the Government or State Secretary who is required to testify as a witness to a trial on matters relating in particular to government policy must request the Prime Minister's permission to do so in advance. It is a provision that you best know that it directly violates the fundamental right of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Of course, there is also this point from the Scientific Office of the Parliament on Article 209 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is important that there has been a legislative improvement in this matter in order to limit this possibility only to security and foreign policy, but, in our view, this restriction continues to violate this right and will cause us many problems and practical problems, but also to the European Court of Human Rights. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is a bill with about a hundred and twenty articles on which there was no prior open consultation. It may have been a good job in the committees, but public consultation is a democratic acquis, and it must always be respected, the citizens must also take advantage of it in order to reconcile bills. It is a great mistake that the New Democracy - both in this bill and in but - has not started at all well. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives and priorities of each of us are well known. They are demonstrated by the actions and policy pursued in each bill. The first bill of the SYRIZA Government in 2015 was to curb the humanitarian crisis by defending the most vulnerable groups. The first bill of New Democracy tabled in 2019 is how it will be reinstated to power centers in the most cruel way, creating both the feeling and the reality that there was a thirst for the return to power and the non-return of the Left in the future. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, have never seen this power as property, we have seen it as a tool to exert policies in the interests of the social majority, to lighten people from austerity policies, to mitigate the inequalities that you may consider legality and bring our own self-evident, social justice. But society knows very well and will also understand who is on its side again. For these reasons, we are voting against this bill and we call on the world to be alert to the eruption that has begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u136	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been completed a month since the New Democracy election victory and we are all witnessing, in the implementation of a plan that directly opposes democratic institutions, but I would say that it is also directly against common sense. One would expect a newly elected government to make use of its political capital, but also to make use of the particular situation in which we are in the first place, as the country for the first time after eight years of monuments has a clear field and therefore, by using this momentum, one would expect the newly elected government to move forward with its own plan that has been telling us all these years that it has, has and is different and is alternative to the economy, to the development perspective, for taxation. You have asked for three and a half years of elections to assure the Greek people that you are ready to rule differently. So we were all waiting for an alternative plan for the economy, growth and taxation. From the first three weeks it turns out that the only project you actually had was your plan for desolating the state. Your plan for the economy was exhausted in your favours to Mr. Latsis for the Greek and in 205 million all further reductions to what our government had already launched for HISFIA and even additional reductions in the large suitcases. The miracle, then, was all about, the 205 million, the miracle for which tons of ink were thrown out by election. That was your great readiness to change fiscal and economic policy. No negotiation, no plan to reduce surpluses, only these 205 million, and we since September 2018, that is, after leaving the memorandum, brought in and voted with you, is the truth, because you also voted for it in Parliament - more than 3 billion measures of relief and social support, not counting the non-implementation of pension cuts and reductions, duty-free, etc. Most importantly, you alone rejected the plan that we had submitted to the institutions, by yourself, before they asked you, before they rejected it - if they rejected it - which provided for a 1% reduction in surpluses from 2020 onwards. Of course, that will also be the reason why you will be forced into the next budget to bring measures of austerity. Let's see how ready you'll be. But, in order to be fair with you, in trying to set up a strictly controlled, centrally controlled and deeply party-based state, you had done a serious preparation, so that your first legislative interventions are legislative interventions that gather superpowers, which turn the Prime Minister's Office into "Leviathan" with armies of postmasters who place party officers in the Ministries, abolishing the selection of Secretaries to Ministries by means of ASPs, downgrading control bodies and completely abolishing the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate, which has been working unintentionally with public inspectors for many years. They are legislative interventions which intervene directly and unequivocally with the Independent Competition Authority and even when very serious cases of illegal cartels are in the field of its investigation. Your first legislative interventions, therefore, are indeed so well prepared that the government of Victor Orban in Hungary would even be jealous of them, can the Bolsonar Government in Brazil, if we take into account the praisers of the junta, the dictatorship you have included, appointed to government positions. So let's remember what you've done in just a few days. You appointed as head of the NSA a gentleman who no one knows him. He doesn't have any CVs. You've been hiding the resume for so long. I hope you'll give it to the public. At some point, I imagine you'll give it. I don't know if he has or doesn't have a CFD degree. Now I've been informed that you've been publicizing his CV a while ago. Two weeks without having a CV. I don't know the man, and I don't want to place myself on a man I don't know, I honestly say it. However, what makes me very much impression is that, usually in these positions, sensitive institutional positions, people are placed in society to have an institutional authority. You put a man whose parchment is that he was in a security company. However, the NSA is not ‘Group 4’. The NSA is not a private security company. The law, therefore, expressly says that it must have a B.C.E. degree. We'll see about that. The law expressly says that up to two sub-commands can enter the NSA. You two have nominated three. On SYRIZA's day, while I was Prime Minister, I had instructed Mr. Rubipai to inform in detail about the major issues, the critical issues the Chief of Staff Response then, which Mr. Mitsotakis himself admitted when he met to thank Mr. Rubbai last week in Maximos. Four and a half years there has been no suspicion, not even a trace of anti-institutional behaviour on our part in such a sensitive area. I hope this will continue. The first samples of writing, however, are not encouraging. In any case, the laws are to be observed and not if our pursuits are unlike the laws, the worse for the laws. You placed General Secretary of Tourism, Mr. Luli, who wrote a book, take note, not after the Postpopulation, not in the 1980s, but in 2015 to praise the dictatorship of the colonists. Instead of going away from the government, when the matter, the praiser of the junta, you have led to the resignation of the president of the EOT. Your chief didn't tell us he was the youngest political prisoner? Why is it not disturbed today by the praiser of the junta? Now, I repeat, not then. Then there was Mr. Vorides and your other members. Now! But of course we all understand why, because the Mitsotakis Foundation fund is not easily disbursed. That's the truth. You have placed a man on the market, with little detail that he is a man of the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT", in the place of the State Secretary, to manage the case of the Greek. There's been a lot of fuss. You said to us: 'As you make a fuss. He's a technocrat. Don't worry. It will be fair." And "before glutton speaks," you brought an amendment, on the basis of the company, to change the conditions of construction in the Greek. This is not the case in the sub-Saharan African countries either. Do you think we've been under pressure for so many years from this company to legislate? But we unlocked the entire Greek project. We found a plot just a contract. He had neither forest maps nor cayaloo delimitation nor provision for ancient ones. He didn't have anything. We took out the presidential decree. We went ahead with the project, but we proceeded with respect for the public interest and the environment. Now what exactly are you doing? Where are you gonna put the skyscrapers? Inside the sea, up the wave? What exactly does the company want and how much more are you willing to do to make it easier? But, in any case, I would like to say something about this: no matter how much papers you make to the investor, if he has no money to invest, there will be no investment in Greek. I'm telling you to know that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I tell you to know, because you had run out of election, and you said that in the first week the bulldozers would start, the work will start. I didn't see any bulldozers, nor did anyone see us. And good for the first week and good for the first month and good for the first quarter, but see when the work will start. The only work that has been done is the graceful amendments and not all the other ones, that it was our fault that the investment did not go ahead. It was our fault that they didn't go ahead, but the investment went on because of us where it went. Everything else was lies and misinformation, which is your dress anyway. Let's see in these few days what you have stumbled about: that Alexander Gregopoulou's killer was released because of the penal code and he had the nerve to say that to the Government representative, he did not say so to any of the well-known newspapers, the websites that support you. That Mr. Floros - the "main" may be an exaggeration of this position - as a partner of the new director of the Great Maximos, Mr. Dimitriadis, has also been released because of the penal code. Second lie that you supposedly cut off the poster. You're reducing them, you're making them four, eight. This is a serious reduction for posters! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What are you moving your head, Minister? Don't move your head. We need an answer. You're reducing the poster?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u138	You'll have it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u139	Also, that you supposedly made access to a hundred and fifty - five thousand children in kindergartens within ten days. The decision already existed from the previous government and was committed to the amount of 270 million on 30 May 2019. It was also said that you allegedly cut the pension yield of EUR 24 000. Mr. Brutsis is not here, but I challenge him to come to this Step here in the House responsible and say a name, who retired 24,000 euros in our day, a name to say, a name! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For lying and slander has close legs, such as the other lie that the outstanding pensions are supposed to be four hundred and fifty thousand, while on the basis of official figures on June 31, 2019, all outstanding for main, subsidiary and one-off together did not exceed seven thousand. So lies, make news, misinformation, distortion and invasion of the state and institutions. That's your plan. Does this plan mean anything to you, especially as regards the first part of the disinformation, distortion and lies? It reminds us of situations that we see happen both in other countries and in Europe and in the world. These things are not unprecedented. Perhaps for Greece she is unprecedented. Perhaps it is unprecedented that such a large grid of institutional systemic media constantly highlights these distortions and there is no contradiction. But let's take things in turn. The bill we are debating today, even from its name, is an institutional smuggling. You are baptising a bill for the final state, a bill that directly puts against democratic control and the separation of powers. Just to say it more straightforward. A presiding parliamentary democracy has a huge difference from a presidential system. So today you come and play with these institutional limits. And you know, these limits are there to be respected by every political party, not to become a flat every time depending on the political relation and political design of each one. What, then, are you suggesting today? President of the Government with six Secretarys General, four hundred forty employees who, if I'm not mistaken today, have learned that they are more than five hundred thirty, if I'm not mistaken, officials - 100 posted, direct control by the Prime Minister of ERT, the Athenian Agency, the EPA, the Transparency Authority, definition of responsibilities and direct reporting to the Prime Minister of State Secretarys, General and Special Secretaries of the Government. Look. I cannot know exactly what Mr Mitsotakis is afraid of and is moving on to these changes. I imagine he does not so much trust his own ministers, perhaps his own party. But, Minister, I have to tell you - since you are in Athens and I am grateful to your face - that despite the fact that you have introduced good legislation into the bill, you yourself have circumvented the first piece of legislation. You started the consultation after the law had been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u140	At the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u141	A little later. In any case, what I would like to say is that these kinds of interventions, from post-Multipulation, at least, have never taken place in the country before. Of course, you want to highlight this hard-concentrated model as a reform of the United States' political system standards. But there, you know better than I do, since you are a scientist, that there are so-called Checks and Ballances, that is, institutional safeguards that do not allow the President to become inconsistent and to act above all control. You here want the superpowers against democratic control, at the expense of the House itself, to adopt them without any control procedure. You are creating a state of ministers - let me express it - man-made, without the ability to control their ministry, of party officials who of course shared the spoils of victory - but the work will be done by their existing state-secretaries - technocrats at this stage - and Secretary-General, who will be referred directly to the Prime Minister and Parliament in a decorative role. To be honest, he was also in the previous Samara government term. There was a decorative role for the House. But the funny thing about this is that you are trying to promote all of this by wrapping up liberalism. Just in time, Mr. Georgiadis is here. Welcome to the Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u142	Good to meet you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u143	I was starting to feel lonely without your presence! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you're trying to present all this with the wrapping of liberalism - and that's why I'm saying it's time - while you've gathered in your government all the original members of the People's Orthodox Alarm. What kind of liberalism is that? Ministers accuse you of being mentally ill-trained fighters of the anti-declaratory struggle. You have recovered every anachronistic perception of the role of the woman, the family, the Church, the class and the security. You bring laws to restore the toughest, narrowest party and central state and above us are the liberals. The most interesting thing, however, is that, even so, what we are talking about today is not going to succeed even the purpose for which it was written. On the contrary, only additional bureaucratic and budgetary burdens will be borne. For the paperwork, I will let you see it yourself as soon as a few months have elapsed. But for budgetary matters, I will say that according to the report by the State General Accounting Office, only after the government Presidency has set up and operated is the annual cost of the state budget of at least EUR 227 000. When I was the Prime Minister, the General Secretariat of the Prime Minister provided for the operation of ten offices. But every day the well-known "pads" were talking about excessive number of posters, excessive spending, etc. This draft law only provides for eleven offices, one Directorate-General, three Directorates-General and one Department. That is to say, we have an increase in the positions of responsibility and the corresponding allowances of more than 50%. The ten offices I had in the General Secretariat of the Prime Minister at that time were too much for the criticism made by the opposition at that time and the largest share of the media. Now only sixteen units in the General Secretariat of Prime Minister are fine. It's no big deal. The over-structuring of the five hundred and thirty people, of whom the hundred are posthumous - who will even receive increased pay - is now fine! The six General Secretariats that will operate in the Presidency of the Government plus the other structures that I have mentioned now fall within the framework of good governance. When we recommended some absolutely necessary Special Secretariats to support critical areas of the social state, you blamed us for big wastes. Now that you recommend a whole Special Secretariat just to manage an information system, which is supposed to monitor your government work, everything is well burned! Why am I saying this? I am saying this in order to show the hypocrisy of political speech, but also of the media, or of better means of disinformation in our country. But of course, when Paul Paulakis detailedly presented the list of the twenty-five-one scandal of CEDEFOP last week, how he was leaving the public money to make a payroll to journalists, publishers, to specific media, I saw a lot of embarrassment in the audience and fed on all news reports. I didn't see them show it. Even in the ERT it was shown in the 1500s and 2100s - it seems - all that was played was Paul's maids. That was the most crucial element!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u144	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u145	You, especially, have a doctorate in disinforming this booklet daily that misinforms the Greek people, you must not speak! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because the newspaper you were working on until before...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u146	I was at least working, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u147	Don't interrupt me. Who didn't work, Mr. Marcopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u148	Look at your executives!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u149	You had done the paper you were working on, central topic to the poster to the government of SYRIZA. Today that you doubled these post-calls, the day before Paulakis came to this Step and raised twenty a health scandal, all you dealt with was that at the café of the House they smoked and had cigarettes in the ashtrays.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u150	Do you approve of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u151	I won't have a dialogue with you! But the Greek people will draw their conclusions very quickly. And you know what? Do not feel powerful because in an unprecedented way for modern post-military data there is no opposition today to the dominant media, but there is a monologue. And that was the main reason why you are currently in the government headquarters. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But do not feel powerful about this because we do not live in the era of the Secretary-General of Tourism. We live in the era of the fourth industrial revolution and the internet. We do not live in the YENED era, even when it is identified at the same frequency of hymnology for government work and public and private media spheres. Today we are living in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, when nothing can be hidden. And as much as you're trying to falsify reality, know that reality is stubborn and that reality is avenged. The lie, the misinformation, the make news have short feet! Remember that, sometime, you'll be brought back from the whole Organic landscape that's been set up in the media. I'm closing the parentheses. Let's go down. You are therefore establishing the institution of the Secretary-General of the Office, supposedly in an attempt to dismantle the administration. In fact you are trying to disorientate public opinion in relation to the unacceptable abolition of the emblematic provisions of Law.4369/2016 on the collection of the administration. Why do we say that? Because the responsibilities of the Secretary-General are limited solely to the purely administrative and financial matters of each Ministry. In other words, the Secretary-General will have the same responsibilities as the current Director-General for Economic Affairs. Your choice here is clear. Instead of gratuitous staffing of public service posts by the National Executives Register, you choose the decommissioning of the state mechanism with executives from the New Democracy Party Registry. You are also trying to regulate matters relating to private offices, as you call the existing political offices of the members of the Government, the State Secretarys, the General and Special Secretaries. But these provisions - remember that! - it'll be your political vatorlo. For four and a half years you have been unconscious about the issue of poster workers, and let us be the ones who have made a cut in the total number of poster workers, and let us be the ones who have reduced and rationalised their earnings by joining the single wage bill for civil servants. So you come today and what are you doing? Good morning recommend seven hundred posters and even with increased pay. In particular, on the basis of current wage forecasts, only specialist scientific consultants and partners were ranked to date on advanced wage scales. With the proposed provisions now proposed, all the posters, associates of the Ministers will receive special wage benefits, and without even requiring them to do so. Remove the relevant requirement so that the high school diploma is sufficient to cover all the posts of a minister's associates. So excellence have you gathered there in the New Democracy, Minister? Do you have such exquisite enthusiasts to take care of? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to the major theme of this bill, the establishment of the National Transparency Authority, where all management audit bodies are attempting to combine them under an independent authority - supposedly - with increased authority. To this end, one might well accept - and we are well-meaning - that there is political and administrative logic, in the sense that a principle that is responsible for overall planning and the fight against corruption is being established. Yes, sir. But let's look at the details. While the standing provisions provide for an elementary procedure to cover the position of the commander of the authority, for the other positions of the members of the administration, as well as for the positions of the Heads of the Organic Units of the National Transparency Authority, the transitional provisions are a monument of opacity. The commander appointed by a decision of the Prime Minister, without an open and objective procedure, will appoint the heads of his choice, after the legitimate servants of the co-ordinated bodies have been appointed. In other words, if we all understand that, what Mr Mitsotakis cannot control is abolished and reconstituted in order to place party subordinates and friends. In short, you are not interested in creating an independent and effective principle. All you're interested in is checking the public administration and everything you can't control, either remove it or intervene in anti-constitutional and anti-constitutional so that, in the end, check it out. That is why you are abolishing the institution of the Public Administration Inspector General, and that is why you are providing for the suffocating control of the new body and, obviously, the bridging of all the outstanding cases relating to the public sphere. What has bothered you in recent years by the institution of the Public Administration Inspector General? Did it bother you that he investigated the CEDEFOP case? Did it bother you that he investigated the case of "NOVARTIS"? What's with all this? The same and much worse you are doing on the matter of the Competition Committee, with a clear photographic provision of doubtful constitutionality, which is undoubtedly contrary to Union law - and you will soon see it - and obviously in violation of every concept of political ethics. You are attempting to remove the administration of the authority by retrospective introduction of appointment barriers. Why don't you say it clearly? It disturbs you that the Competition Committee is dealing with serious cases, including the cartel in the press distribution area. That's what bothers you, why don't you say it clearly? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why do you not say clearly that you have a plan to favour specific interests of monopolistics that have created monopolistic conditions in the press, and now the pain of today's president is supposed to be politically neutral, because he had been a legal advisor to the Prime Minister, while at the same time, why not say the same thing about the Governor of the Bank of Greece? Really, isn't the Bank of Greece an important institution? Isn't it? The independent authority is, isn't the Bank of Greece? There the commander, who you appointed - and of course we in institutional behavior have not raised any objections over all these years - what is it? Politically independent, undivided Mr. Samara's Minister for Finance? Why don't you say the same thing about another independent authority, the Consumers' Counselor, run by the former Secretary of the Central Committee of New Democracy, Mr Zagoritis? You're laughing. But it's for laughing and crying what you're doing, unprecedented for a favored democracy! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, when the Chief Inspector General was Mr Rakitzis, he was - you said at the time - so sensitive the functioning of the institution that he would not even be allowed to change when his term of office was over. His term of office had expired for five years and you were constantly renewing it. Now that Mrs Papaspyros is in charge, you can ignore in progress investigations and procedures to demolish the institution of the Inspectorate General. When Mr Kyritsakis was the head of the Competition Committee - and this had ended his term of office and was being renewed again for five years - any legislative intervention concerning the incompatibility of the members - because members of the committee were relatives and now the Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Kerameos - there was a great storm of reactions on your part as unconstitutional and unacceptable intervention. And, of course, whatever institutional intervention took place, it was not about the current term of office. Now, which is not your favourite head, the retroactive arrangements for incompatibility, with the aim of abolishing legal administration, are constitutionally and morally tolerated. What you're doing is hypocrisy. You have no sign of institutionality, a sign of respect for the institutions, and you will find it in front of you. I'm closing, Mr. President, because I've had a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u152	You got me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u153	Two minutes at most, I have a sense of time. I would therefore like to close very briefly, subjecting - in password, I would say - our proposal, an integrated proposal, a progressive proposal for public administration. A large part of this has been achieved and we have implemented it in adverse conditions, but there is a very big field ahead. In summary, therefore, I would like to mention the Single Mobility Scheme. Creation of digital organograms and job profiles. Reputable choices of Directors-General and Directors, which were made for the first time in decades. Electronic evaluation. Reintroduce the rule "one withdrawal - one intake" from the "one intake for five departures" which was up to the earliest. Recruitment planning to meet real needs. This is our work, the work of the SYRIZA government in public administration. And, of course, we have respected and deepened more in the considerable reform efforts of previous governments, such as the law to strengthen the CSCE. Because we believe that the state must continue, because we believe in the positive reform areas. In this context, I assure you, Minister, we would have no objection to supporting any serious reform efforts that the current government would be seeking in public administration. Unfortunately, however, your maiden bill leaves us no room for optimism. Your intention, apparently, is to reconstitute, re-establish a deep and uncontrolled party state. And even more evident is Mr Mitsotakis' intention to govern the country with the familiar authoritarianism of the Right and, of course, with the misinformation of his donors. But Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u154	Who Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u155	Right. You don't belong on the right? Are you progressive now? Are you liberal? What exactly are you? But what you do turn us into old times. In the state of a right that today's right to forget. That is why we are telling you that Greece does not need a deep party state. Greece needs a modern, valuable, efficient public administration. Greece needs vision, leadership, plan for the new era. Prove a few days after your election victory that this vision and this plan solidate them. I assure you that with that logic you will not go too far. Very soon you will find that this design will not be enough to achieve your purpose. And very quickly, too, you will find that your design, the implementation of your design will be absolutely dysfunctional. The intrusion of the state, the suffocating control of information and the independent authorities, the control of justice and, ultimately, the undermining of democracy itself will not go unnoticed by the Greek people, by Greek citizens. They won't stay without reactions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in 1969, but in 2019, whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u156	The government has the floor on behalf of the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I am honoured that you have studied the bill, which I have tabled and thank you very much. But you will allow me, with all due respect, to mention the following in the outlines - not myself - but only in the outlines! Let me point out, then, first of all, what you said outside the bill and allow me to leave at the end only two minutes for the bill, because I have already mentioned it in detail. First of all, this is another question for the Bank of Greece, which belongs to the Eurosystem, and in this respect nothing can be imposed on it, in relation to a principle which is not constitutionally regulated. And I don't want you to understand it as a lesson, it's just a common finding. Question two: What has happened in relation to the Greek is something that you will see very soon and the Minister of Development will mention. You will see very soon ministerial decisions, which had been referred back to the fact that they existed within the government, confronting logically, as far as the appropriate ministers were concerned. But as far as what you have seen in a week's time is concerned, you will allow me to say it: you have seen bulldozers and you have seen them in Matti, where one year of energy was left, which was a flammable matter, Mr President. And you saw it in a week! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The third question is: Awesome pensions have not been issued. And why wasn't they extradited? Because the Ministry of Labour did not issue these pensions, which were ready to start. In this respect, you can also refer to the former Minister for Labour. The fourth question is that you will allow me to say, Mr President, how to say that the election victory is due to the - let us say - media intervention is an unfair paternalism, which deeply degrades the Greek people. The Greek people don't need patrons. He knows what to see and vote on the basis of his conscience and how he perceives his future and not on the basis of what is being imposed. This is a serious deterioration and paternalism. Five. As you know, Mr President, we have a system of President-in-Office. It's not a presidential system. In the President-in-Office of the Council there is a system of public policy making by the Ministerial Council, and a monitoring system is in place. Germany and Chancellorship are a Presiding Republic, Mr President, as is the United Kingdom. That is why he does not have a presidential system. We're so close. So there is no question of wrong transport. I come to the issues of our bill. Mr President, I have heard that we did not really structure the reform policy on the perception of an executive state in what the previous government had done. You will allow me to tell you with all due respect that what happened in previous governance did not work. The law to which you referred, Law No.4369/2016, has been active for three years. What has he produced in these three years, Mr President? He produced a Secretary-General. Why did he produce a Secretary-General? He produced a Secretary-General because, on the one hand, notices had been launched, which were photographic and were returned by the European Commission for that reason and were delayed. Secondly, because it was not a process - and I understand why we put it, but it is not - IASA. It was a process in which the AACC proposed a list of three and eventually the Minister chose. So let us understand it when we keep saying that this is an SAPA procedure. And if you want, to tell you this, what was the one case where the Secretary-General was appointed, Mr President? It was the case of the Secretary-General for Migration Policy, where he was appointed Secretary after three years by means of the procedures you characterize as SEP, but it is not an SEP, the one who was previously appointed politically. And if you want, what is a hefty indication of what is a party state and what is not that particular FEK with a sheet number 87 of 25 February 2019, Mr President. In the same FEC Mr Klapas resigns from the post of the appointed Secretary-General and is appointed himself in the same position, allegedly through the choice of the AACC. Is that a colonization, Mr. President? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the contrary, what we are asking is: a genuine ASA procedure for the general secretaries, who will be operational. ‘General process’ means only an APA. No political intrusion. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Furthermore, I would like to say this: it is not accurate, Mr President, that it will only have economic and staff. It goes without saying that it will also have the coordination of the policies of the Ministry. This is a huge sign of confidence in public administration, because it is a civil servants appointed with the ADP, it has evolved with a board of directors and has reached the highest grade. So there is genuine confidence in this. As far as posters are concerned, Mr President, I did not want to talk about and they are one of the issues that I have not raised. But I cannot, on the other hand, hear the fact that we are constantly talking about how much we are struggling with the poster issue. And that has a lead of injustice. My count, which I'll testify to in the Minutes, I'll tell you immediately afterwards. And I say'my own count', because to this day we are talking about there is no legislation which records the permitted number of retired people. No one can find it. There is a separate number for each Ministry. Every time there is a joint ministerial decision setting an additional number and, in addition, so that today we are talking about no record of the number of posters per Ministry. For the first time in Greece - and you know that, Mr President, it has a value in itself - we codify provisions and tighten the framework. So what I would like to say is that your past government structure had counted organic positions for post-seven hundred seventy and with this provision it is limited to six hundred and ninety-five, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u158	Along with the scientific partners, there were so many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u159	Let's see. So because you are also constantly talking about the question of the over-structure of the government's presidency, I would like to say that here we have a certain number that existed under the previous government. The General Secretariat of the Government served fifty-five posters, the General Secretariat of the Prime Minister, eighty-six, and a further twenty in the structure of the Vice-President. The whole, Mr President, is sixty-one. And today it is limited to a hundred plus the eight retired ones for the Vice-President of the Government. A total of eight, instead of sixty-one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u160	Plus over-structure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u161	Where's the superstructure, Mr. President? Because it is easy to say that we are creating superstructure, because at last we are building a specific method next to the Prime Minister, it should be accompanied by the relevant documentation. Let me close, Mr President, by referring to the national transparency authority. That is where I think we will share what you said about common sense. There are six audit bodies whose heads are appointed by a political decision. The leaderships of the six bodies are appointed by a political decision by the Minister. You will allow me to say that it is completely dysfunctional, it does not produce results, it has overlapping responsibilities, it has not contributed. I ensure to the extent that my regulatory capacity is fully and fully consistent with all the investigations. I expressly guarantee it here, and I want you to take it genuinely into account, that all the investigations are fully followed up. There will be no interruption at all. On the other hand, it is self-evident that all international organisations have said so, the great structure of the General Anti-Corruption Secretariat in 2016, that there is a need to unify the structures, said the former Minister Vasiliadis, your government Minister, that the structures should be unified. It makes no sense to have a multitude when we can have a new structure at all. I'll submit the relevant documents to the Minutes. The new structure may have some gaps, in your opinion, but it is still a new structure that is built on genuinely good foreign practices and with them we will try to attempt. Indeed, in transition, because there is provision here for the appointment of the commander by purely ASPA procedures, for the first application it is not the Prime Minister's choice, but it is a decision of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency on a proposal from the Ministerial Council for the first application of up to two years. I therefore think that the logic of the instrument's impartiality is absolutely guaranteed. And I would ask you to emphasise how many internal audit mechanisms the auditor has. Checks and balances should primarily apply to the person who controls. And there you'll see - I'm sure - how much we've taken care of the bill. Finally, Mr President, I know that you have a sense of humor - I keep your statement that this bill is not going to work. I hope and hope that it will be a reasonable prediction that you will not lose one in a million!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u162	On behalf of the Government, Mr Georgiadis, Minister for Development and Investment, and then Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, will speak for five minutes, and, of course, the President of the Parliamentary Group of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis, will then speak. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the SYRIZA, I will speak to you with respect for your institutional position, since I will beg you first, since you have given us the honour to come to this House and to refer to our legislation, not to underestimate our intelligence. Let's go talk about the Greek. We tabled an amendment to No 4062/2012, an amendment to three lines referring to the legal declaration of the term 'high buildings'. You said - in my opinion, falsely, but let me say that you may have been misinformed, I challenge Mrs Perka who is there and knows how to explain them to you - that with the law that we have voted on, we have changed the conditions for building the investor and, indeed, you have done a brilliant job of putting the skyscrapers on the beach or on the sea. You are a former Prime Minister and you are not inappropriate to say that in the Greek Parliament, where the Greek people are listening to us about a very serious investment, which you, too, have tried to support. I shall table your amendment for the Minutes. My amendment, as you remember, ladies and gentlemen, was a page on the one hand. You see that, Mr. Tsipras, that? Count pages! It is the amendment of No 4062/2012, the same law that I supposedly amended in favour of the investor, voted on 1 November 2018. All these pages bear the signatures of the Committee of the Regions. Ekleidis Tsakalotou, Georgios Stathakis, Ekaterini Papanatsiou and Socrates Famelou. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'd like someone...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u164	What does that mean? Meaning?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u165	I'm filing it in the Minutes to see it. This type of legal clarification in terms of definitions has fifty of the amendments in question. So please, Mr Tsipras, former Prime Minister, Mr SYRIZA, get up now and tell me, if you can, which part of our amendment has been favoured by the investor. You're a former Prime Minister, you're a person who's got to count, unless it's nonsense, I don't believe it. You will rise immediately afterwards and you will say "with this phrase you write in the law, we can change the position that the skyscrapers are built and this favours the investor". And be careful now because I'm telling you: if you don't do it, it goes on to say that what you said before was 'flying'! But now listen: Examinations and accusations of this type about who favours an investor can do in capitalism, Mr Tsipras, not only when trying to make an investment, but also when trying to stop an investment. And do you know how easily I could say that you came here to give tests to the interests that they want to stop the investment? Is that how we're gonna get it now? So to come back, in fact, as a former Prime Minister, you know - why you were saying it, but if you did not, we will do so - that investing in that country is a matter of national survival. Fighting this House on such self-evident issues as the adoption of joint ministerial decisions - which your government had undertaken to issue - sends a very bad message to abroad and to investors, while we want to show that this country is finally changing page. So I invite you to leave what you have done in the past, to show that somewhere has matured in this four-year rule and you are not the old Tsipras and to give the message that Greece is changing and wants investment and jobs, because what you said about the Greek was all lies. I come to the subject of Mrs Thanos, whom so warmly you have come to defend. First, Mr. Tsipras, well, was there a cartel in the press on your day? I'm surprised. Were you four and a half years of Prime Minister and allowed a cartel to be in the press in such a way that Mrs Thanos had to come to fight it at the end of your term of office? Inadmissible if you let there be such a cartel you as an impotent and irresponsible Prime Minister! I'm surprised. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You know, you have a misfortune. And if you want to become the old Alexis Tsipras on the sidewalk, you can't, because your government's been following you now. You said here that it's getting drunk, it says, our government's terrible ways of changing Mrs. Thanos in a way unthinkable. Does the name Catherine Savvaid say anything to you? Do you remember how you 'feed' it personally, Mr. Tsipras, with a false accusation that was subsequently acquitted by the courts, just why he did not, obviously, do your jobs? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Will you come and give us lessons on how a government can kick out someone who doesn't want us? So you did it, and you are the first to teach it in a way that was undisturbed. On the contrary, we, Mr Tsipras, did something very different. Before the elections, when you brought to the House of Greeks the appointment of Ms Thanos and elected her with the Golden Dawn, we set before the Greek people our intention to consider this election void. It was the day Mrs Thanos stated that no one can take her out of place. With your votes - and the Golden Dawn - he was elected. To remember what happened in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u166	So was it personal regulation and not institutional for Mrs Thanos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u167	And yet, Mr Tsipras, if it were only for Mrs Thanos, one could say that it is a photographic device. Of course it isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u168	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u169	Oh, no. I said what we said back then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Catrugale, don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u171	In the Competition Committee, Mr Tsipras, you have not only appointed your former Prime Minister to the Prime Minister's office, Mrs Thanos, but also to participate - obviously in all the constructions - but we will then be able to prove them at a later stage - but you have appointed as Vice-President of Mr Papapa's office as advisors to the central committee of your party, not in the number. Symbols, party symbols, officially symbols were found as supposed members of an independent authority for which, ladies and gentlemen, you listen to what European legislation says: that there should be no sign of political influence. You're smiling. You're right. You must feel very proud inside of you for making fun of Europeans too. Because, of course, no reasonable person can believe that the "pilot of political influence" is the half Central Committee of the SYRIZA and your closest partner at the Prime Minister's Office. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So our amendment - to close - comes to restore legitimacy, both Greek and European. To say something that, if we had forgotten Mrs Thanos and had just talked about her, you would have voted for all three hundred. What do you mean? That in such a serious committee for the proper functioning of the market there cannot be anyone who has any kind of political influence, precisely what the European directive says. So, Mr Tsipras, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment, to show that you were taught something from the elections of 7 July and to take the place a step forward both in investment and in the institutions and in everything, so that we can give the Greek people the democracy it deserves. And since I see you talking to Mr. Spirtzi, I'll hang up with that. Mr. Spirtzi, see how life brings them. The amendment you tabled for the Greek, the one you voted for, you know what law was in place? The one I told you about the triumph that Europe would cut it off. And do you know what Europe has done? Europe has cut it. And you know what else he did? He is now doing research into corruption on how this amendment came to the Greek Parliament. Isn't it a little strange, Minister and former Prime Minister, that you come to the Greek Parliament and accuse us of a business interest when you sit there and the European Commission is investigating you for corruption for something you voted on in the Greek Parliament? So, to close, let me leave all this in the past and the exams you've given where you've given them. I am referring to Mr. Tsipras. He knows. And we're going to the big one. The big one, Mr. Tsipras, is to get our place ahead. That is why this government is fighting, that is what we will do and that is what we will succeed. For the record, Mr President - he forgot to say this - I should like to say this. You know, Minister, not only did they appoint the one and only secretary, the same as their so-called transparent procedure, but the same one who was appointed was the second in molecules. The first one was passed by to put him in. And they come and talk to us about transparency! All right, Mr. Tsipras, go on vacation better! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u172	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xinoyannakopoulou, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out to the Minister, Mr Gerapetiti, that when he referred to the institutional work of the SYRIZA government in this way, he should first of all admit that through these institutional reforms, as the President of SYRIZA said, for the first time, a pragmatic system was ensured for the transfers of civil servants, such as the single mobility system. And these are results, they are not theories, as you said. For the first time, there are digital organograms and position profiles. There is an evaluation, not punishing, as it was when Mr Mitsotakis was Minister, with 15% of his lack of availability, and of course, of redundancies. And, of course, after ten years, there have been recurring public head-in-law crises. And as far as the posters are concerned, here we have to be clear. What did the SYRIZA government do after 2015? Because we are constantly listening to all this parafiscality, we have all mentioned it here and the President said it before, Mr Tsipras. The inventories of civil servants by 2014 recorded only four posts as posters. They did not count on the rest of the poster, i.e. scientific advisers and partners. For the sake of complete transparency, the SYRIZA government, in the census held at the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction after 2015, put all poster who were scattered everywhere. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why there was this increase in the number, not because the posters increased. Let me tell you where I was, uh, Minister of Administrative Reconstruction. I had 12 people in my office. Mr. Mitsotakis in 2014 - Mr. Katrugalos said so too - he left fifty three. Just now there is transparency and full recording. Mr Gerapititi, because we have all recognised the flexibility and the very good effort you have made to raise objections to serious opposition, we thank you for that. Our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, said before, because we are on the question of posters, that here, in the legal provisions you have brought, while you were committed to having a hundred posters to the Prime Minister's presidency, we suddenly see that they are plagiar and so many others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u174	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u175	We'd like a full clarification, please, on this one. Do you want me to finish first?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u176	Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u177	Please make the intervention if you please. If the President permits, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u178	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u179	The Minister is right. Indeed, it is the hundreds, which are the top without possibility, with the authority - that is, by means of a joint ministerial decision of the Ministerial Council - to extend this figure. There is an exception, which refers to those who have been serving for a long time in the General Secretariat of the Government and now are almost permanent, and at the moment they are all from a decade or more. And they're exactly counted twenty. So if you want to count them, too, Minister, it's a hundred twenty. However, these are a special category, which have long been and remain with all governments and are some who were appointed four years ago. I apologise for the omission, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u180	Thank you for clarifying. So it's good to have the full picture of the number, so no impressions are created.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u181	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u182	In any case, beyond the number, which is constantly increasing - and I thank you for clarifying - what is clear is that we have reduced formal qualifications - because we have heard all these years of excellence - and certainly much more pay. Fourthly, with regard to the Transparency Authority, the position that the President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, has said, let this principle go ahead, since you want to make this economy a scale and all that you are claiming. In what unacceptable way, however, do you choose this transitional provision, where you predict that for the first two years a decision will be made by the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council and by a simple majority?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u183	Up to two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u184	What we're saying is, if you really want there to be no shadows for this Transparency Authority, make the appointment from the outset. We tell you from the committee not to take this shadow on you. Such a principle must have the exterior good testimony and broad acceptance of the Greek people. For this reason, proceed as if it were an independent authority and have the real, increased majority on the part of Parliament, as is the case for the other independent authorities, in order that this transitional provision, defined by the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council, which then defines the heads. Two comments on Mr Georgiadis. I would first like to say that Mrs Thanos cannot be a personal matter. And you yourself admitted that it's a photographic device. There is an institutional issue here. An amendment to a principle cannot come, where there is particular European legislation and particular sensitivity to competition issues and retroactively put forward obstacles. What you are bringing is not just anti-institutional and unconstitutional, but you know, Minister, that you will have serious problems with the European Commission and with European legislation, because here we have an improper violation of the institutional functioning of an independent authority and, indeed, with retroactiveness. On the second point, as far as the Greek issue is concerned, I would like to remind you that we all remember here the former Minister of Development, Mr Stathakis, who had been election and had denounced this in the past few months, that there has been a blockade and that the investor's obligations were not progressing, while the government and the state had ensured all the necessary conditions. Mr Stathakis had the impression that this was the case in the run-up to elections in order to renegotiate the terms, and that is why there was all this delay. What did we see after the election? We have, on the one hand, seen a violation, Mr Gerapetti, of the very bill you brought us, which raises ethical issues in relation to the conflict of interest of the Ministers and State Secretarys. In fact, the bill came after the appointment of the State Secretary, who is a former advisor to LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, and so, here we really have an unethical conflict of interest in its definition. We have then seen, Minister, Mr Georgiadis, this amendment, which clearly comes and changes the conditions of construction. That's the reality. That's her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u185	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u186	How's she not? That's the reality. It changes the conditions of construction, and that is why there was also a wider agreement with the mayors of the region, which was achieved with trouble, this amendment, which has created, as you know, a lot of reactions. To close, Mr President, because I do not want to abuse time, on behalf of our Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 72, I would like to call for a roll-call vote on the articles on the Service Secretary, on the Secretary-General and Special Secretaries, as well as the transitional provision that the Executive Register and the procedure under way on the AACC and on the whole of the chapter, all the articles on the new Transparency Authority that you are proposing, for all the reasons that we have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the legal systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, I would like to speak on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u189	We will see the request for a roll-call vote and we will find out when the roll-call vote will take place. Expecting Mr Varoufakis as Party Leader to speak, Mr. Vitsas has asked for the floor on a personal matter. I fear that you are the only one who feels that there is a personal matter. I would remind you that it is personal when there has been some irritating mention of you, which obviously does not apply or alter what you have said. Can you explain to us in a minute what the personal matter consists of?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u190	Both Ministers - and Mr Gerapetritis and Mr Georgiadis - referred to an act that I did as Minister. So what's the act? I don't need more than a minute. The act concerned the Special Secretary for Migration Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u191	General. PUBLIC VITSAS: Yes, sectoral is more correct. But I'm telling you, I'm very surprised, especially by you, Mr. Gerapetritis, because you're a special scientist. When the relationship changes, i.e. someone has been assigned to this position with another relationship, with another law, to take over in his new position, he must resign.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u192	Obviously. PUBLIC VITSA: Apparently. So, what do you say, with the same FEK, that happened to the other one? So you confirm the president of SYRIZA who says that distortions are trying to produce a reality that does not exist. That's the one. The second concerns Mr Georgiadis. There has been the decision of the AACC. Among seventy-two candidates were selected, two, Mr. Pantelatos, who was a consultant...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u193	You guys involved in this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u194	I make up my mind. He was my advisor to the military office as Deputy Minister of National Defence, and Mr. Klapas was the Secretary General for Migration Policy. It's true that Mr. Pantelatos had more molecules. Mr. Clapas had less molecules. Because I knew both of them well and their skills on this particular subject, I chose Mr. Clapa. Another thing, however, which also proves for us and at least for me and on the basis of the decision of the AACC, is that we have always chosen the best, because the AACC has also worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Vitsa...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u196	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u197	Yeah, yeah, I get it. I wanted to say this, because we are at the very beginning of Parliament's term of office. Personal issue is not when one of us, as Mr Vitsas said, feels surprised. If it is a personal matter when we feel surprised, then we will have successive personal issues. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A personal issue is only when someone is insulted or given an opinion, as the Rules of Procedure, Mr Katrugale, of 1932, differ from that which has been outdated. It's nothing of this. Surprised is an element that gives a variety of life in here and does not constitute a personal issue. And please, since we are at the outset, not to use the invoicing of personal matters to deprive those who deserve it. Mr Varoufakis is currently being called to Step 25 as President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification of the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, can anyone else not ask for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, thank you for that. Minister, I will begin by thanking you. And I mean it, because you've been here so long, you listen to the MPs, and I think that's very good for political culture. I will not even question for a second that you feel a reformer and that you are serving a government whose Prime Minister and he feel a reformist. I am sure Mr Mitsotakis would like to finish his term of office, - when it is finished - and to have been recorded in the conscience of the Greek people as a man who colonized the state, made it more effective, reduced his dependency on the great interests. I'm sure of that. But, reading this bill and the next one, you will allow me to tell you that Mr. Mitsotakis' image is coming to me as a young Saint Augustine, when Saint Augustine prayed passionately to God and said, "God, make me pure, but not yet." Reading the bill seems to be happening with your government. You want colonization - I'm sure - you want to purify the public, but not yet, son! These have been heard by other colleagues and other parties and I do not want to repeat what we have already heard. We see a series of usual practices. We see bills, which, while their heading concerns very vital issues, such as public administration, are fragmentary. They consist of pieces, which are unsuccessful to each other. We see urgent procedures being used to solve the real urgent needs, but without the substance of the bill containing the solutions to these urgent needs. You have passed a tax bill, which is not about the essence of taxation, the advance tax paid by businesses, the VAT. You are now putting down a draft law on public administration that keeps a fish on the main issue in the public sector, which is evaluation. You're talking about the evaluation. Everyone is talking about merit, about values, about evaluation, but where is the actual evaluation programme? As Mr. Stoura's previous bill did not speak of "elephant in the room" nor does yours speak of what is really a matter. Where you are talking about evaluation, for example, of the official general secretaries, you refer to them or to the way in which they are chosen, saying that it will be done through the APA, but, of course, with different rates, with the interview, under conditions that are not defined. What does "structured interview" mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, if I may, it is a technical term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u202	Yes, I know it's a technical term, but the problem is not technical, it's purely political. Thank you for saying that it is a technical term, because that is how you give me exactly what I need to proceed to the next point, which I have in my notes. Look, here's a philosophy behind your bill, behind the New Democracy's placement, as far as the so-called ultimate state is concerned. It's not your philosophy. You have borrowed it from elsewhere, perhaps from the Anglo-Saxon model, which I know very well. Behind your philosophy, not practice necessarily, but behind philosophy, there is, if you like, a thousand sense of rationalism, a working rationalism. So as David Huum says that it is a rational man who can achieve his goals, using his means in the most effective way, and man's virtue or evil or evil is not in the media, but is in the goals, so you separate political decisions from their execution, assigning execution to technocrats. We, as a PART25, reject your philosophy and reject it both politically and philosophically and in practice. Let me explain why. In engineering, when you want to build a bridge, there's obviously got to be a technocratic process. A democratically constructed bridge is dangerous and criminal, because it will fall. You need to go to the praiser, not to the expert, not to Plato, but at least to the Metsovian Polytechnic or to any other polytechnic. However, when it comes to public administration, when it comes to policy, when it comes to economic policy, there is no abstract technological solution, there is no abstract technocratic instrument. The mistake that, in public administration, policy, economic policy can be distinguished between the political purpose and the technocratic instrument, lies on the basis of the neoliberal format that starts with Thacher in the late 1970s, and which eventually failed in a way that was fickle, in a way that, my friends, who had been ministers of Thatcher, such as Norman Lamont, like Michael Howard, with whom I have a personal relationship, admit was particularly negative from their side. In other words, you will find this in front of you. Every time the neoliberal doctrine of this separation of political objectives and technocratic instruments is imposed, the choices made in the technocratic field are always technically inadequate and politically classic. Mr Condolone mentioned earlier. I don't know if she has a degree. Let man have three PhDs. But he works in a business. It is a particular business that worldwide - because it is a multinational, as you know - has played a part in breaking strikes. He has played a role in helping to dismiss officials, whether ESAP is either in Britain or the cleaners or the clerks or the judges. He has played such a specific role. This is a purely political role. No matter what degrees he has, no matter how technocraticly good evaluation procedures Mr. Kontoleon has, his appointment will be political. He may be good, he may be virtuous, but he will always be a politician and pretend that political decisions can be made in the technical and abstract way, systematically and, with mathematical accuracy, lead to decisions that are both technically inadequate and politically classic and toxic. There is a doctrine here, which forms part of the philosophy of the New Democracy. It is the doctrine that nothing good, after all, cannot be done by the state, but there is no miracle on this planet, which cannot be achieved by individuals, especially since there is a giant authoritarian state to support them. This is the great contradiction of the neoliberal dogma, that a 'ubert' state, authoritarian and anti-democratic, is required to enforce them in a way that no one really liberal can accept. Take the example of Thatcher, to which I referred earlier. He left a state far greater than what he found in the name of the small state of staff. Reagan left a federal government with a lot more employees - and very expensively paid, like the ones you want, the praiseworthy posters - than the ones he found. Any government that has embraced this doctrine worldwide ends up building a more authoritarian, less functional, less efficient state in the name of the executive small operating state. In the name of excellence, which is not your invention, we usually see a parasitic "images" of individuals who grow around Britain's national health system, or around the industrial pharmaceutical medical establishment in the United States. Speaking more specifically of the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, may you allow an interruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u204	Sure. I have no objection to you interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u205	To whom President are you addressing? Because we're all presidents here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u206	I don't have a problem. If the real president allows it, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u207	Because we are both worshipers, then, of the Anglo-Saxon model, to interrupt you for a minute, because I feel there is a very basic misunderstanding. The misunderstanding lies from now on: The draft law in question does not trust technicalism at all. The exact opposite is true. Technocracy means you actually have an outsourcing state. Here we are trying to shrink the state, but to transfer decisive responsibilities from the level of civil administration to the level of service. Let me give you a simple example, because I'm sure you understand that. Of course, how there will be spatial planning or urban planning, it is a political decision, will be taken by the relevant Minister, who has indirect democratic legitimacy, is not questioned. When these limits are set, the individual decision to build will have to be taken, not by a private person, but by the civil service, which has a guarantee of impartiality and expresses the continuity of the state. Thus, in that sense, there is no logic of the external technocracy, but rather of the service administration, which has knowledge, but expresses the public interest and its continuity. Only this clarification I wanted to do and forgive me, Mr Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u208	No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Varoufakis, it is understood that the time spoken by Mr. Gerapetti is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think that's your intention. I can see that. Unfortunately, you will very soon prove yourself in this government, and I know that because I once was a minister who felt an enormous loneliness in another government. And I sympathize with you, because you will see that service secretaries will evolve very quickly - you have seen the "Yes, Minister" - to a Sir Humphrey, who is very close to the multinational and much less close to the political leadership. I have already heard your colleague Mr Georgiadis refer to Mrs Savvaidou. Because I happen to know Mrs Savvaidou and have worked relatively well with Mrs Savvaidou - relatively well, do you remember how Mrs Savvaidou's appointment had been made, the rotating doors, to which company she was working before taking over the General Secretariat of Public Incomes? I do not want to talk personally about Mrs Savvaidou, because I personally appreciate her, despite our conflicts and despite the fact that she basically served the interests of the troika and was addressing and answering only to the troika, but as a lady it is excellent. I would like to say, Minister, that the combination of the demilitarised bureaucrat and Secretary-General with the doctrine of the New Democracy, which has inherited it from elsewhere, is that more and more powers are conferred on individuals. You've already done it with the Chief of the NSA, we don't have to argue, I'm sure you didn't ask specific questions. Incidentally, when Mr Condolone rings the phone at 4: 00 this morning and there will be a national crisis with what pre-service and with what history will he be able to deal with the issues at that time? It's, if you want, a rhetorical question, a rhetorical anxiety I have. Seeing the bill, the way in which the presidency and the transparency principle are integrated - I am not against rationalisation, the creation of new structures to stop the wholesome - depends on how you do it, but here we will wait and judge you according to the result - on the basis of Article 82 of the Constitution. I am not a constitutionalist, but as far as I read it tells me that the Prime Minister has the ability to secure the unity of the government, this eliminates the unity of the government. When you have a man's authority with all this staff underneath, all these principles are subject to the beginning of one man, that is exactly the opposite of ensuring the unity of the government, coordination, the increase of the Prime Minister's authority in a system that is not supposed to be pre-central. Minister, we in Merra25 do not go into criticism. We also want to make concrete proposals. I referred to the ‘Elephant in the room’, in the absence of any serious discussion or provision or mechanism for evaluation. We call for civil servants, university teachers, teachers to be judged and evaluated. It is not possible to continue a situation where good people and good people are punished for ruining the street to the rest. The question is how to do it. As MERA25, we condemn and reject the idea of a non-political, effective assessment, a quantified evaluation. I have heard a colleague of yours from the New Democracy talking about quantitative objectives. Quantitative targets are very good at the Olympic Games when you have to decide who took the gold medal. But on qualitative issues any attempt to quantify qualities is destroying quality. What do we suggest? We as a PART25 - and in our election programme we have tabled this - are talking about strengthening institutions and forms of social control that are based on crisis committees consisting of public confiscated officials, confiscation teachers and confiscated citizens, in the archaic model. But that is something we should discuss when you bring us something about the evaluation. Because evaluation and merits are mentioned here in this Chamber these days only for pretext. In fact, there is absolutely nothing. But since you're talking about merit, let me remind you who invented the word. Not the word aristocracy. Michael Young invented it in 1958. His book ‘Meritoracy’. Let me tell you, using a proposal by Michael Yang because Mera25 then abominates the idea of an abstract and allegedly technocratic evaluation process. So he says Michael Yang: "The basic idea of merit" of those who talk about merit like your Government, "is that officials earn points with their value, ensure with these points entry into the system where they have to continue collecting points so that they grow. In fact, he says Michael Yang, "the myth of merit plays the role of helping the possessors of wealth and power to feel well for themselves convinced that they are fully worthy of their achievements and that their privileges serve public good." The institution of committees, made up of judges, is the only way to have a real assessment without the power of the occupants being reproduced. We'll come back to this. Friends and friends of SYRIZA, I'm sorry to tell you that. Don't talk about the ILO again. You abolished it on the troika's command. And if you do not remember, ask Mr Tsipras to give you a read-out - I am sure you have not read it - the report by Mr Panagiotis Danos, the Special Secretary of the ILO, when he was effectively abolished by your own government, not because you chose it, but because the troika imposed it on you. Friends and friends of SYRIZA, don't talk about S.H.I.E.L.D. I have heard Mr Tsipras earlier mention the period of Mr Rubbai as a golden period. It wasn't a golden period. Personally, I am aware that the dark state was working against our government, because we were together then, with Mr Rubbipia playing an important role. I have denounced it in my book. Let someone come and sue me for that I wrote in that particular verse about Mr Rubbai. I will ask for my immunity to be lifted. Don't talk about S.H.I.E.L.D. Four years you have had, to save the ILO, so that there can be real such control mechanisms with people like Panagiotis Danes. Four years you had, to put the NSA in place and be a true servant of the Greek people. You've had four years to put Mr. Latsis in his place. Because I heard Mr. Tsipras earlier compete with Mr. Georgiadis about who he is, who helped more effectively to make the investment - this reproach - in Greek. Friends and friends of SYRIZA, build a mighty ironic government presidency. Looks like it. Did you forget Mr. Drasakis? Have you forgotten the government's vice president? If they did not have the idea of the government's presidency, you gave it to them with the government's Vice-President, which was a parallel government, at least as long as I was in our common government for a few months. But Merra25 doesn't oppose SYRIZA. He's opposition to the New Democracy. As we have said, this is a government whose leadership is building a new parasitic oligarchy on the fourth memorandum, which he inherited. To liberate the leadership of the New Democracy from the interests of this parasitic oligarchy is as weak as liberating the fish from the water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u211	The debate will take place as follows: Firstly, I would like to say that it is customary, when there are many speakers, for more to speak, to call for a reduction in Members' time. That's what I think is wrong. I suggest originality - rare originality! - to keep our time. If we stick to the seven-minute, then there is no reason to limit the time. Because, even if we restrict it, we will still not keep it and go to seven minutes. So it is worth trying to keep time and know that anyone who goes beyond seven minutes violates the right of a next colleague. Secondly, Mr Spirtzis has asked for the floor and he will be given a minute. It calls for the existence of a personal issue. Immediately afterwards, the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Raptis, will speak on behalf of the New Democracy for the 12th and then Mr Famelos will be speaking. Mr Spirtzis has the floor for a minute to tell us what the personal issue is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I am not surprised that this is not the first time that I have been muddled by Mr Georgiadis. It was therefore invoked - what we were hearing and when we were in the government - that Triumph is scandalous and that it is controlled by the European Commission for corruption. So let me inform Mr Georgiadis - because selectively he does not remember - that when you said that, not only for the Trinity, but also for the Patras - Tower and for anything else you have said, I did so myself to the prosecutor. The theme of the Patras tower has been archived. I am not aware of the evolution of justice. I should also like to inform you that what the European Commission is investigating concerns the well-known control of State aid and a private competitor to Aspropyrgos, not corruption, but unequal conditions of competition. But, Mr Georgiadis, I would like to ask you - because you must now adapt to your role as Minister of Development and not to your role as Vice-Policy - for any matter that concerns me or the time when I served in the Ministry or elsewhere, and for whatever matter you have, we must go together report it and investigate it either by the Greek judicial authorities or by the UN if it has. But stop having the role you have had in all these years as a Civic Opposition. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u213	Mr Georgiadis also has the floor for a minute on arms equality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u214	Mr Colleagues, I, in contrast to your fellow Member, who, every complaint he makes or listens to it, do not adopt any complaints against anyone until there is a final decision. As a result, I'm not implying anything. I know, however, that what you brought in and voted on in the House and which we had warned about is, at the moment, completely blocked by the European Commission. In two, three months that the investigation will end, we'll see what it will get. Because the complaint against one of the competitors you mentioned, if it turns out, must lead to the reason why a minister decided to favour someone else. So, I wasn't completely out. But let this prove. As far as your proposal is concerned, I want to be very honest. Thanks for the invitation. I don't even go to the stand with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u216	No, I think it's over. You have the floor, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Spirtzis is a parliamentary representative. Mr President, you are feeding this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u218	Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u219	Listen, Mr. President. What he said before with what he said now in two or three months that he'll end, what? You said a moment ago that the European Commission is investigating corruption. Is it true or are you getting it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u220	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u221	That's what you say. I'm saying it's to record it. I say to you, Mr Tassoula, that the opinion we have and the knowledge we have is that the European Commission controls State aid as in any competition, does not raise a question between the Triasy and the public areas, the 'LOGISTICS CENTER', which is right and left for unequal competition, but why do you blame us, Mr Georgiadis? The contest won him a public bank, ETVA. What corruption are you talking about? We talked about it in the bill at the time, but it's okay. The D.A.'s from me, and let's not even go to the stand. Stop the mud you've been throwing four and a half years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u222	The opinions of both sides have been heard. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Famelos, has the floor. Previously, I'd like...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u223	The parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u224	The parliamentary representative agreed that he would speak tomorrow so that Members could move forward. I wanted to ask you, in the context of speaking more and more today, to agree to finish at 01: 00 after midnight and tomorrow at 17: 00 this afternoon to win two additional hours. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u225	All right, we're moving in that direction. Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government named the bill under discussion as a bill of staff. Let us not hide and hide, Minister. Only in the final state is it not about the bill. It is a thick-cut partyisation of the state, not even documented, with an unwanted liquidation for the Government of Transparency Institutions, independent authorities and individuals, with hundreds of posters, without a degree in favour of appropriate remuneration, without an assessment of their recruitment and without transparency. In the background, the Government seeks by this bill the de-democratisation of functions of the Greek state, the deletion of many steps of the maturation of the Greek state of post-multition. It is a choice to remove the European acquired, unfortunately, for you too. It is an orgueran conception, malicious politically, sloppy and dysfunctional, which aims at the same time at what Mr Vorides has asked for, to prevent and ban every voice that comments on a right-wing government of the deep state. The government, Mr. Mitsotakis and the rapporteur choose politically and ideologically, Greece should go back to the beginning of the creation of the state, namely the period of the authoritarian state, when the main backbone of the administration was the concentration of powers around one person, who operates as another emperor, as well as a bureaucracy around him, sworn to the one who serves the purposes of specific interests such as when the states become a part of France and England. It is not even a liberal version of the state, Mr Gerapitris, because if it were liberal, it would include, first of all, the central principle of the separation of powers, the legislation with the executive, which does not provide for it. Mr. Mitsotakis introduces a real innovation, that of hard political neoliberalism and even changes institutions, such as the Ministerial Council in an institutional vulgar economic model, something of your Greek Government SA. Of course, I would say that it is an EIA because most of the ministers have limited responsibility. In fact, that is what the Scientific Committee of Parliament tells you. You have not yet answered that, which also says about the President of Parliament, that you are reducing his powers. Is it a question for the officials of the New Democracy: does the President of your party ultimately not trust you? Because then it limits the responsibilities of the ministers, as the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says and selects government officials to be from the market. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You know, the choice of managers is not something that sounds first. In addition, many members of the School of Public Administration are doing an excellent job, we know, we have chosen it, we have supported it in the register of executives, and we have also proposed that private sector officials should also be involved in the central responsibility of the Ministries. It is not just the issue of representativeness, political responsibility, which all these undersecretaries, managers and technocrats are politically accountable. It is that they are not even bound by the normative principles of the New Democracy, but are bound by the interests that have been indicated to them. Unfortunately, this was revealed very tragicly in the first month. At least, do they choose the best? Are they choosing the good guys? Unfortunately, no. The recent, Friday afternoon, selection of the administration of Greek oil proves that they do not choose the best. Be careful, Mr. Chotsouros' administration was an administration of no parties, with a market executive, who gave profits to the group, which provided investment in the group, which gave hundreds of new jobs, international cooperation and special initiatives in energy reserves. It returns an administration, which was politically linked to the governments, even Kostas Karamanlis, associated with huge tragic deficits for the country, which caused damage to the group and succumbed to it. Where are the perfect ones? You did exactly the opposite. So, not only are they partying the state, but they also choose the worst, party-linked to their administration. We are talking about a bill, which, according to the New Democracy, has long been ready. You admit it yourself. In other words, there are reports, ladies and gentlemen, that this particular think tank has been working for two years - it says what days you were gathering in the Northern Suburbs - to work this bill. Is that really so? Was there the think tank?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u227	It's embarrassing and you mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u228	Good. Mr. Gerapitris refused it. For this, ladies and gentlemen, it means that while the Opposition in the previous period, namely the New Democracy, created propaganda on the risk of partyisation of the state, at least in the last few months - after you refused the two-year period, but you did not deny the last few months, alas, the dossiers were given the first week from the elections to the ministers - a plan for state blur was being drawn up. And I think this is the greatest political fraud. In other words, blaming the Government for the tendering of the Secretary-General, which is being carried out through an AEP and at the same time working on a tool that has the appointment of the Secretary-General, the appointment of the Transparency Authority and all the auditing authorities, as you admitted, and the recruitment of poster without an AIP licence - because they are posters, they are not scientific partners - with a step-by-step I fee, i.e. with managers' fees, high-school graduates and a risk, from what our rapporteur has already pointed out, to increase in relation to your commitment. It is political fraud, while the country is in a moratorium and is struggling to get away from bankruptcy, which New Democracy and PASOK have forced us to work out a plan of BSE officials, teachers and political potential for how to better serve the interests of the groups and then be in the government's positions. This is the political fraud. You are proving, of course, that you are of little interest to citizens. Because if you were interested, you would have tried to make use of at least some public administration officials in the preparation of the bill, which you did not, because you do not trust those executives either. You are using tons of communication gold dust, to cover tags within a framework of modernisation a bill that has not been consulted by CEN, had sixteen pages of legislators and eight others now - two hundred and twenty-five legislators. That's not exquisite. It is not excellence to submit a draft law providing for good law and not to keep any provision and any provision in its submission. At least that's what you have to admit, for your own blasphemy, that it's not a good bill. This bill mitigates the incompatibilities of the Ministers, the State Secretarys, the formal qualifications of the retired, abolishes the public administration seat, the Public Administration Inspector General, the APRC, the IASC, the CENE, the Codification Act, the Register of Officials. How European is that, that is, the unification of all supervisory mechanisms in a body with the head of command that is putting the Ministerial Council to appoint the directors? That is the definition of partyism, that is the definition of opacity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But allow me a minute, Mr President, on the matter of the Ministry. Two Special Secretariats of the Ministry of the Environment, in which I served: The Special Water Secretariat and the Inspection Secretariat. In the waters - and I conclude, Mr President - you have chosen to abolish the service which was structured with the European Union to strengthen it. I wonder now what this study will be about the activation and strengthening of the Water Secretariat. How will the National Money Plan proceed? How will water management, flood risk, environmental pollution in the Greek seas, cost analysis and monitoring of water network losses proceed? The second issue is environmental inspectors. Including environmental inspectors at the National Transparency Authority. It's a question. Why? Since they aim to identify and deal with fraud and corruption. You're creating two speed inspectors. The third issue. You excluded the environmental auditors from the audit compensation. In legal systems you replace this article, which is, if I am not mistaken, 118, with another provision, but you have not finally clarified what will happen. And here I'd like...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u229	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u230	I shall conclude, Mr President. If you really want them to carry out environmental audits, answer why you're so downgrading inspectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Famelle, one minute has passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u232	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u233	Each minute we remove it from our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u234	I'll be done. It is important to tell you that the work of environmental inspectors has been assessed by the Council of Europe and is outside the Single Transparency Authority. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: it is possible that the House and the majority vote in favour of this bill. You may limit democratic functions of our society. But you must know something: the bills are not voted against by the House. The bills are voted against by society. That's what you should be interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u235	Please, Mr. Femmelle, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u236	Because this non-final and party state will disappoint many who have been taken away from your propaganda. It will disappoint many who were disappointed in the first 20 days of what you have done. And many of the right provisions that you will abolish tomorrow will come back to this Chamber and will be voted on again, because then you will have lost political and election. We are also going to run out of all democratic tools to defeat you both politically and electorally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Colleague, you've spent the time for two minutes. I would like to say this, which the President said before: respect the time. If each of the Members speaks for two more minutes, we shall have two colleagues to speak to the seven Members. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer Mr Famello.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u239	But I'll take the floor later, Mr. Gerapititi. I tell you this in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u240	Is that a threat, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u241	I'm telling the President, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u242	Perhaps, Minister, someone else needs to speak and say it all together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u243	I'll answer now because it's too fresh. I think he referred to something, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u244	You have the floor for a minute, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I'm not even gonna need a minute. I would ask that the term 'propaganda' should not be used when referring to me. It is obvious that there is a clear distinction, which I think is my fault, which I did not communicate as I should have. There is a common gift, which refers to public corruption and incorporates all the mechanisms for monitoring the rumour. There are bodies, which are market control bodies, such as the ILO, the AEA and environmental inspectors, which are involved in market control. Not only are they not undone and merged, but they remain fully in force and are dismantled, because they will no longer be under the control of a special secretary appointed by the Government, but under the control of the Director-General. Thank you and apologies, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute. I need to clarify something. I put a question to Mr. Gerapetiti.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u247	I think, Mr. Femmelle, there's no need. You were very analytic. You were given time. A small answer was given by the Minister. Please beg Mr Katsafandos from New Democracy to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, please tell me that you are not giving me the floor. I would ask that this be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u249	Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u250	Please note, in the Minutes, that I was not given the floor by the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u251	You've spoken, Mr. Famele, nine minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really can't help but comment on the position of former Prime Minister Tsipras, who did just a little bit of this step here, where, in his half-secret speech, he tried to convince us that this government, which counts eighteen, twenty days of life, is one of the worst governments and is responsible for all these sufferings experienced by the Greek people in our day...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u253	You're trying to tell us you made the economy within twenty days!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u254	On the other hand, Mr Santorinier, you have forsaken us, to some extent, that this bill is a constitutional coup! This is what Mr Tsipras tried to convince us in his speech, without any sign of self-criticism, for the four and a half years, which was Prime Minister. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. But there is a very big difference. The world outside this Chamber, other people believe in these days of this government. And he may also do so for another reason, the former Prime Minister of the country, because he is trying to hide the feelings that the previous government caused to the Greek people, especially in the first half of 2015. The least you can say about Mr. Tsipras' government and him was that he seemed totally unprepared to manage the difficult situations facing the country. He was, at least, unprepared. Not to mention the new names without content, which he made to ministries and the mergers of ministries, which he the next day abolished. This was the plan and model of governance, which you tried to pass in 2015, and with this bill, which the government says is ready, that it has a plan, that it meets the requirements and needs that the Greek people and the Greek society have. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to hide behind our fingers, are we satisfied with the functioning of the state? I expect an answer from you. Because the former Prime Minister spoke for forty minutes and had the nerve to say that he was making suggestions. One minute the proposals he has made have been kept. Forty minutes he spoke, one minute were the proposals, which were concise, and indeed he also spoke about mobility. Remember, Mr Spirtzi and Mr Polakis, what about mobility in 2012 and 2015, which New Democracy implemented? How did you condemn her? Remember what you were saying. Is mobility an optimal way of managing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u255	What does that have to do with what you've done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u256	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u257	Look, ladies and gentlemen, what I was expecting from the former Prime Minister of the country, what I expected from Mr. Tsipras, going up to this Stepha was to make his self-criticism, to make his findings about the difficulties he has faced in four and a half years and to propose solutions, not to blame us for the fact that we are going to make a constitutional coup in the country. That's what I expected. However, since no one disputes that this state is in a state of disillusionment, that this hydro-heading from which it has to be held must be changed, explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, what is wrong with stopping the Ministerial Council from being used in communication terms, meeting in so many ways and becoming a real management body, a real body that will set targets, prioritise priorities, set timetables, implement policies? Is that bad? Is it bad to get away from an instrument that they used it in communications? I will not question the intentions that the previous speakers may have had, but unfortunately, we only stayed in words. There was no specific timetable for implementing all these policies, which were discussed within the Ministerial Council. So, ladies and gentlemen, is that a bad thing? Are we judging? Are we judging it? Do we think it is unconstitutional, that it is undemocratic? What is it? Let me move on to the Secretaries-General. The Minister said that 80% of the administrative acts dealt with by the Ministers, the Secretary-General, are administrative and financial, which will dismantle their work. The Minister will develop a policy and there will be a service agent, who is aware of the Ministry. Because it is good to remember that the Minister does not have to be related to the subject in which he is placed. He's not the illusionist who knows everything. The Minister will therefore implement the policy with the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General will deal with the tenders so that there is transparency and will be dealing with all administrative acts, individual, simple and simple. So 80% of the project, which the Minister and the State Secretary and the Secretary-General of a Ministry had to carry out, was these administrative acts and is at the moment decongested. How do we manage to do this, ladies and gentlemen? Strengthen two basic concepts, the concept of the continuity of the state, which is necessary, but also the independent structure, which the state and the ministries must have. There is a lot of discussion about the ILO. I heard that, Minister. What was there, what was the previous regime? There was a special secretary. Who defined him? That's the Minister. Isn't that the reality? And now, what is there, ladies and gentlemen? There is a substantial independence of this control mechanism with a director-general, who is part of the personnel of the organisation concerned and who, with meriting criteria, will take up the position of the Director and will be unavoidable and uninformed to perform his duties. What's so strange about the paradox you find in it too? We therefore have to move on, ladies and gentlemen, as for the Independent Transparency Authority. It is now logical that there should be a principle and there should be no six, that there should be this unified procedure, so that we can have better control and better production of results. We must therefore, ladies and gentlemen, not sit down and discuss the laws which you have brought for general secretaries, which, as it seems, was the one who was placed and who was from your party. So don't tell us about merit, I don't want to turn the debate back on and talk about the aptitude criteria, with which the Prime Minister, Mr Caranikas, and many others had been appointed. I don't want to go there. We must all take a step forward together. Is this an ambitious plan, which is being tabled today - with difficulties? - with difficulties - where will it be judged? - to be judged, though, with suggestions. Put forward proposals, constructive proposals! Let this new model, a model based on the separation of powers, a model based on the unbroken state, to an independent logic with which the public administration must function.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u258	Please shorten up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u259	Excuse me, just give me one more minute, Mr President. And then we will be here to correct both the distortions and the mistakes, which can probably be created. But give the country and the public administration the opportunity to take this great step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos is called in Stepma from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion in addition to the arrangements for the establishment of the government function also includes arrangements for the well-known organisation of the state. It is certain that this bill has been prepared, gentlemen of the government, for some time. It clearly illustrates the Prime Minister's choice of controlling and supervising the government's work. However, I do know - and indeed I would say that there are many others who know - about the effectiveness of a state of staff. It would, however, be handy and naive to all of us to claim that these arrangements bring the government in this direction. I also support this because these regulations do not favour the transition to a centralised and flexible state, a central state, which designs general policies and implements them at the same time. How? Decentralized and flexible. Gentlemen of the government, we waited for a cleanup, a clear delimitation of the ministries' responsibilities. We hoped with this draft law that overlap and contradictions will finally be stopped, particularly in the executive powers to the three degrees of local government, and we have not seen this in self-government, which we all call for as a basis for direct democracy in words, but in projects we dehydrate and degrade it. We have waited for a rationalisation in the number of letters, and this is in the spirit of the collection of public administration. Let me remind you of our proposal in 2009, the opengov for merit and finally get away from the scourge of the party state. Let me remind you that he went to SYRIZA to No.4369/2016 and we all agreed then that the choice of the Secretary-General should be made with the AACC by means of a proclamation on the basis of qualifications, i.e. merit, but before speaking three and a half. Mr. Vernardakis, with the technical improvement of the last minute, brought us pre-collected decisions, with a new body of secretaries, administrative and sectoral. I would remind you that at the time, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the New Democracy was protesting. And I ask, what are you doing, gentlemen of the Couple today? What are you doing? Remove administrative secretaries and place general and specialised on party criteria. At the same time, what are you doing? You're raising them. You create a new body of secretaries, the servants, even though there are still the general secretaries. As for the organizational corrections you make, which come from the uncertainties of e.g. 84/2019 and the creation and abolition of general and special stamps, rather than treating bad texts, make them worse. Keep, that is, or create a multitude of mono-faceted or collective bodies with overlapping responsibilities. The danger is obvious, the conflict between them on the exercise of their duties and the birth of new bureaucracy. At the same time, Minister, you are abolishing the first part of Law4369/2016 with the Staff Register. On the substance, you are stirring the path of transition to the non-party state. You are also setting up a giant public service, the presidency of the government, which is managed by a hundred poster, three hundred seconded and, of course, increased. The conclusions of yours. However, what profit? You are in favour of the Prime Minister in substance. So you are proposing a new model, the pre-centralised governance model, to which we of course are opposed. Remove the CENE and recommend an evaluation committee for the legislative process. With regard to the provisions on the human resources of public administration, you are setting up positions in all ministries to be served with graduates of the National School of Public Administration and specialised civil servants. Apparently, this is an excellent arrangement. On the substance, however, Minister, you seem to ignore the structure of public administration, because you are creating a foreign body within the administration that can add overlaps of competence. It appears that the provisions of the bill are not based on the need to remove this gangran from the duplication of responsibilities, which are a brake on the public administration and create continuing bureaucracy. But let me conclude with positive comments in the bill. They are positive, Minister, the arrangements of the fourth part on blockages, incompatibilities and the avoidance of conflicts of interest among political officials, as is the fact that the creation of a national transparency committee is very positive. Of course, some improvements are needed in the selection of the chairman of the board and the governor of the authority. In general terms, however, I would say that it is in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, we will monitor how this Americanised one works, I would say, a model of governance and we will constantly highlight our comments. Besides, the key point of the changes is whether in practice the government will show confidence in the skills and competences of the public administration, whether the government will continue with the perception of civil servants with distrust or even worse only as part of the financial problem. It takes confidence, assessment and incentives for civil servants to finally establish a system of dignity and equality. Civil servants should be invited to implement a different direction in practice for the public administration. Society really requires. It requires mechanisms for transparency and control of all forms of infraction, within and outside the public administration. Society requires to see, in practice, changes translated into the fight against bureaucracy, this gangerina, in a faster and more effective response from the public administration to its own needs. For us, the state, ladies and gentlemen, has continued to operate for the benefit of citizens and society. That is the most crucial thing I would say in the end. That is why the Change Movement is here, to exert fertile criticism and constructive opposition for the benefit of many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos, and especially for keeping time. Mr Markopoulos Dimitrios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a point on what the former Prime Minister said. You know, better finish than a Syrian state. We remember you. We don't have a short memory. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will remind you of a name because you seem to have forgotten very quickly during these few days that have passed since 7 July: Iason Schinais. If I am not mistaken, he was the general secretary of your youth who praisedly felt very comfortable when his mother, his brother, was appointed, and I see that he was an economic consultant at the office of Prime Minister - and at the same time his personal girlfriend. That was an end, in your opinion. For us it was a Syrian state and we'll never forget it. And the Greek people did not forget it, who condemned you. And you didn't. Cabari! Trace of self-criticism by the former Prime Minister. Do you want me to go further? May I remind Mrs Arvanitis, your MEP's wife Costas Arvanitis, who was fine in a ministerial office? Do you want to go down there? Did you forget Mr. Karanika? Recruitment? With what qualifications did Mr Karanikas take? Why did he make good cocktails? Just think about yourself a little bit. Do your self-criticism. We know you well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u264	He's an orthodox professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u265	Yes, professor at the capitol and the mojito! I didn't interrupt you, sir! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u266	This isn't a parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u267	Please. Please. I would ask that intervention be removed from my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u268	I begged not to interrupt so we could get time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u269	I know it's hard for you. You still can't do self-criticism. You think you're government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u270	Carry on, Mr. Marcopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u271	So when, some time ago, a large group of people from society were called upon to join in an effort towards the forces of populism and stirring up - and we all know what these powers are - we knew that the country's most important enemy is the slowness, the procrastination, the heavy state that ends up - and I look at you, because that is where you reached the state - in a deep-serious state, in a deep-serve state, 'love', friends, best friends, brothers and cousins. That was your state. And now you're criticizing. Not a month has passed and the New Democracy Government, taking over the fates of the country, attempts to make a big leap, the rupture that our country so needs. In this context, a series of bills and interventions were tabled, which belong to the sphere of self-evidentness. You know, there's an obvious thing. It's good to know slowly. This is where the intervention for the final state is placed. This is a reform section in the functioning of state heavy structures. We are talking about an originality, as for the first time since 1974 a state'manual' has been created, as I would say, Mr Minister, a boulevard of administration and operation. The structures of the Ministerial Council are being formulated, the relationship between the government and Parliament is being improved and redefined, over-concentration of powers is avoided. The Ministerial Council, you do not want, is essentially collective. The Prime Minister shall monitor the work and intervene in regulatory and institutional terms. Rehabilitation of constitutionality. It was not with this that you were doing very well, with constitutionality. A condition shall be made for the responsibility of the parties involved in the accountability. He ceases the well-known Syrian - you all remember - this nice, cute media play - Mr. Vaxevanis often played it - "with the order of Tsipras". No, there'll be collective bodies from now on, and they'll work and they'll be on government order. These shapes, the "Tsipras" that belong to the past, end. This is an obsolete doctrine, which you have used, and which refers to other logical ones in another century. It's 20th century. We, ladies and gentlemen, are bringing the country into the 20th century, whether we like it or not. We are not stuck in archaic political shapes, division, old political culture. And who's that? Let me remind you of your works and your days, so we don't forget. The Ministry of Finance with the Government of New Democracy and Democratic Reconciliation made the coordination of the memorandum. All these responsibilities have passed to the Prime Minister's office. It's, you know, the Prime Minister didn't participate, it was things open. Alexis Tsipras did not have one, he did not have two, he did have three Ministers of State, and indeed, with Mr Flabourari - I suppose he would have some specific knowledge of the banking and a lot of experience in the banking sector - he was responsible, he says, and about the banking system after the capital controls, which you brought, does he? No one else brought it. Your government brought the capital controls. You have had three people in charge of complementing the work and you are talking about us now that we are reducing these structures! Can I talk about the posters? What can we talk about now? Let it now not embarrass you, it's too late. One hundred and fifty seats you, one hundred eight seats, minus 28%. Don't talk about poster now, 'cause it's nighttime! We're reducing the positions of the general and special secretaries from ninety-three to fifty-eight. Do you know how much the Greek State is getting away with? He's saving 1.8 million euros! The public service, for which you are so tired, now has a role to play, and not everything is done on the basis of the Minister's mandate. Other doctrine SYRIZA: "With the mandate of Minister", "with the card of Minister"! We, you know, trust civil servants, do not use them as micro-participants and workers for voting purposes, as you do. I will not go any further with the other structures. I won't say now about the National Transparency Authority. Other colleagues have covered them for the audits of the auditors themselves, which we will see along the way. I will say, however, that everything you have not done from weakness or worse - and I ask you for that, and that is why history will negatively record you - from ideology, we are the ones who are making progress and all this within thirty days. You're the ones who're binoculars. We directly and creatively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing - the New Democracy trusts civil servants, but in practice, not in words. For words, you are experts and you have proved it with your colluts and your general behavior. We change the country and move forward. I know you are. Listen to them, it's okay. You continue the barren strategy of grey and misery. That's what you know very well to do. We move to the twenty-first century. You, if you want, of course, if you can - because there is also a question of understanding the frames - follow. If you can't follow again, notice that you're getting into what Andreas Papandreou has already learned and appreciated and loved in particular - he mentioned, in the time of history. Watch out for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u272	I would like to thank Mr Markopoulos and thank him for keeping time. Please, Mr. Papaliou Georgios from SYRIZA to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the public administration is the great patient of the Greek state. In recent years, however, the SYRIZA government has promoted reforms which, combined with digital governance, laid the foundations of a different government. The relevant laws constitute the framework. The New Democracy, its Government, instead of further upgrading and strengthening this reform process, has chosen the way to counter-reformation, to return to a state of partyism, to lack of objectivity and merit, to arbitrary and to promote private interests. The public interest shall be overridden. The current bill is signed: ‘Financial State: Organization, operation and transparency of Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration’. His study has shown that this is a false copy. None of the provisions or arrangements contained therein shows the nature of the State as an official and as a State which serves transparency, impartiality, objectivity and merit. It is a state that is responsible for strategically planning, giving general guidelines, coordinating, supervising and controlling administrative executive powers, exercising administrative executive bodies. The implementing powers shall be exercised by the public administration and bodies which perform functions at different levels, from the central administration to the bodies of decentralised administration, regional and local authorities, first degrees. This is decided in the context of the general guidelines, based on specific rules. In this case, such a separation of powers is not established. On the contrary, an over-centralised, pre-centralised system is being introduced, from which all powers are cast. In this context, a new superservice is being created, a bureaucratic monster I would say, the presidency of the government. In this, i.e. the Prime Minister himself, there are six different secretariats, five Secretary-General and one special secretariat, with the division of the General Coordination Secretariat in two secretariats, the General Secretariat of Information, therefore the ERT and the RES - ICM, the creation of a Special Secretariat for Monitoring the Government Work, the establishment of a Legal Board of the State and a Office for the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and the EEA. The logic of the creation of the presidency of the government is that of a cockpit, I would say, Chancellor of a macho type, of a man's authority, the Prime Minister, who will employ four hundred and forty employees, a hundred of whom will be posted and put. All this, with an increase in existing structures, positions of responsibility, staff positions and a significant burden on the state budget. From the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, only from the establishment and functioning of the Presidency of the Government there is an annual burden on the state budget of at least EUR 227 000. The presidency of the government is not an additional governmental structure, but an over-structure that defines the government structure. The Ministers do not carry out the duties assigned to them by the Constitution and on the basis of which they have the full responsibility of the sector in which they are headed, but are recommended to the Presidency of the Government, which is finally taking a decision. A characteristic example is the exercise of a legislative initiative by the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs of the Government's Presidency, which, up to now, is the sole responsibility of the ministers under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. This is also mentioned in the Report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. The Prime Minister's relationship with the ministers is absolutely hierarchical, and it should be operational. The Prime Minister should be first among equals, the centre of the network of government functions. This is how the unity of the government is ensured. The opacity and deterioration of the members of the Ministerial Council shall also be reflected in the provision in Article 4(5). In particular, the reference to them, i.e. the official minutes of the Ministerial Council, the debate and the opinions expressed in the adoption of acts or decisions, is prohibited. To date, the minutes contain a short summary of the recommendations, proposals and communications of the members of the Government, opinions and opinions made during the debate on the basis of the a.d. 63/2005. Of course, there are provisions in which post-mortem officials and transitional provisions can be placed at the offices and departments of the government in which the Heads of organic units are placed by the Secretary-General of Legal Affairs and Coordination in transition until the adoption of the Statute of the Government Presidency - i.e. when? - and taking into account criteria which leave no doubt about the choice of 'their own children'. The reintroduction of the party state is also demonstrated by the abolition of the register of executives, of which by open and objective procedures the cover of positions of general and special secretaries, Presidents, Chief Executive Officers and Legal Persons of the State, the Central Codification Committee, the Public Administration Observatory, etc. was promoted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The establishment of the Office-General is incomplete, since its powers are confined solely to purely administrative and financial matters. These are the responsibilities of the current Director-General for Economic and Financial Affairs. A supervising director above the Director-General is therefore established with the same responsibilities. The so-called demolition of the administration is limited to creating a position, without any real content. But even for this position, the interview procedure is also completely overstated, even though the changes, which were accepted by the Minister, ease or mitigate the certainty or suspicion of an objective crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u274	Please, Mr. Papaliou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u275	I shall conclude, Mr President. The same logic is being used for the direct placement of party friends in the position of commander and its heads, it is assumed that an independent authority, the National Transparency Authority, without criteria and evaluation procedures, should be considered as having greater attention and sensitivity. The Government's insistence on these practices proves its true intentions: the abolition of the institution of the Public Administration Inspectorate, the suffocating party control of the new body and the firm to incorporate outstanding cases relating to the public sphere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u276	Please, Mr. Papaliou, you've been in one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u277	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, during the first operation of the National Transparency Authority, its commander is appointed by a decision of the Prime Minister, without an objective and open procedure. And in turn he appoints the heads of his choice, after...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u279	One more thing and I shall end, Mr President. The standard ratings for retired persons shall be reduced, incompatibilities and obstacles to the exercise of private works by poster, thus increasing the rule of rotating doors and the certainty or suspicion of interconnected relationships with interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much. Finish, please, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u281	Still, despite the changes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u282	Please, Mr. Papaliou, you have spent the year by two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u283	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u284	But if we go for another minute, that'll be at the expense of our colleagues. That's not right. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u285	Excuse me. I would just like to make one comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u286	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u287	Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. In conclusion, therefore, the supposedly final state, promoted by the New Democracy, is in fact a completely overconcentrating, neoliberal party state, around the Prime Minister. And a comment on Article 113 on the recommendation of the Commission 'Greece 2021'. I agree with the comments made by the President of Parliament and would like to see the committee's aim of highlighting the country's comparative advantages to add the emergence of regional Greece and its substantial integration into public affairs, the modern economic, social and political life of the country, given that the cradle of the Revolution of 1821 was in areas of today's Greek region, such as my wider special homeland, Peloponnese, Arcadia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. I would ask Mr. Giola of SYRIZA to come to Stepma. It's known that Mr. Giolas always keeps time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u289	Yes, but colleagues who spoke 13 minutes or more have spoken, Mr President. Thanks anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the staffing and functioning of the central government is well known to have dealt with most of the countries over time, if not all of the post-government governments of the country. The current Prime Minister had occasionally made statements on the establishment, nature and functioning of the public administration, outlining some of the essential principles, such as the collection, transparency and merits in the structure and selection of public administration officials. Let us remember what Mr Mitsotakis said on 3 May 2018: "I am determined to break down the party state to build an atrocious public." And elsewhere: "The party state of SYRIZA will be dismantled, as will the entire structure of the tens of special secretaries who have appointed in a completely anxiocratic way to ruth the state, along with thousands of posted officials. My own ministers will not hire unorthodox men to help the public besties or their relatives." And finally: "The evaluation is a request from civil servants. Our model will be transparent and absolutely pragmatic." So let us now move on to the necessary comparisons to check the correlation or disharmony of words and works, declarations and events. First of all, the mandatory one, which has been included and established by the consultation bill, goes for a walk. The proposer, with an agonizing interest in voting for this bill as soon as possible in order to determine the organisation and functioning of the governmental and central government bodies, failed to discipline in respect of the stage of consultation and introduced the bill without it, invoking the need for the new structure of central government, as if the whole mechanism and the country were going to be paralysed and still unregulated. It is true that during the preparation of the bill in the committee responsible, following the pressure of the SYRIZA MPs, but also of the other counter-population, certain corrections, such as the structured interview, the removal of the negative requirement for the secretarial staff have served in the past five years as seconded to political parties, the reintroduction of the four-year strategic recruitment planning and the withdrawal of the unacceptable introduction of a provision for the placement of individuals in positions that are headed by the National Transparency Authority. But let me now refer to some of the basic features and provisions of the bill that do not make it acceptable - at least to us - acceptable. A tight and steadfast prime ministerial system of power is set up and organised in strict and restrictive contexts. I imagine that if Otto von Bismarck, the Iron Chancellor of Prussia in 1862, were to organise the administration of the state, he would follow a more lighter, more collective and democratic structure, even so would our enlightened first governor of Greece, Ioannis Kapodistrias, because both of them, like other leaders of that time, established a heavy, centralised and authoritarian system of command, but all of this - go! - Fifty and two hundred years ago. We are already in 2019. The organisation and the presidency of the government, which is formed as a new small and above all government - Chancellorship which will include six general secretaries plus the EEA. Thus, it gives the administration the characteristics of a superstructure which will address strategic planning and planning issues as an adjunct and quasi-check the respective structures of each ministry. After all, it is no coincidence that the provisions of the draft law in question are completely missing, but above all, the issue of segregating competences from the various levels of administration is being regulated. Its logic is not to apply the principle of decentralisation by central government, as is the case in almost all European states. This is because the New Democracy choice is a completely controlled centralized model, but also by closing the eye at your party client audience, that is to say to your own children who will be struggling to infiltrate the intruders of power. In any case, does the transitional positions of heads without an assessment for an undetermined period, but does the taking over of the undeserved and, of course, numerous posts of posted officials? It is worth pointing out, although it has been heard before, that only the newly established government presidency will employ four hundred forty people, of which 100 poster and three hundred other seconded civil servants, as well as journalists. So coal, the treasure of the supposed reduction of the transmigrants, for whom the media that supports the New Democracy had convinced that we will see a substantial restriction. But a reduction from five to eight plus two we've never seen before. Looks like you're using some other math, a little more creative. In other words, you blamed SYRIZA for anxieties, while, from the outset, he provided examples of writing with the placement as head of the decentralised administrations of the former officials, but mainly when he proceeded with the resolution of No.4369/2016, which, with transparent and evaluative criteria, contributed to the selection of senior managers with transparency and integrity. This institution, which does contribute to the recovery of the public administration, did not consider it a sample of sound and fair legislation and dismissed it, not including in this legislation the provisions and not by exploiting the existing rated staff. In conclusion, I would selectively like to refer to some of the provisions of this draft law that have caused the expected and fully justified objections of a large proportion of invited and present bodies, such as the deterioration of the EIA and the IAEA that are part of a single secretariat, losing their administrative autonomy, dynamics and effectiveness. Attributes were the objections of the President of the Panhellenic Federation of Workers of the RES, as well as the harsh criticisms made by the Vice President of ADEDY GIorgos Petropoulos about the transfer of important material from the administrative work to the over-structure of the government's presidency that squeezes and the responsibility of the staff in planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Finally, they are the substantiated objections raised by the General Inspector for Public Administration both in anti-constitutional provisions and in the limitation of the powers of those institutions which, according to recent case-law of the European Court of Auditors, are a single representative of a full independence state administration, not subject to orders from others and which carry out independent secondary control. I conclude by saying that the reform of the state that you had announced, ladies and gentlemen, has sanctified in the shallows because of the herds and weights she has carried, that is, because of the monomania she possesses and your deep commitment to the hard neoliberal party and overconcentrating character that you have reserved for public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Please, Mrs. Vulture from New Democracy to come to Step. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. In attending the debate on the final state, as long as it was held in committee and today in plenary, I have personally concluded that there are currently two problems in opposition. One is the need for an early opposition, and the other is a kind of group amnesia that has taken over the opposition, both the colleagues in KINAL and the PASOK-based colleagues who are in SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u292	Changing movement, Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, are you first listening to the concept of an 'final state'? Forty waves and three memoranda have passed the concept of a perfect state. Did you forget the White Paper that would help us build? Did you forget about the great 'Kalikarat' that would follow the normal 'Kalakrat', which would be the great reform of the state? Did you forget about Mr. Papandreou talking about an ideal, powerful state? Have you forgotten about the agreement of the three Heads of State in 2012, which was also talking about a state of perfection? Mr. Tsipras himself didn't tell us everything so much and he didn't tell us about a strong and effective centre, a director of the government's work? Didn't he talk to us about restoring the executive role of the public sector? In Nafplio in 2013, when SYRIZA through Mr. Tsipras presented his public administration programme, did Mr. Tsipras himself not speak of a clear distinction between government and administrative function? So it's not something new that we're talking about. Let's see what the charges you're making to the government on the basis of the bill: the over-concentration of responsibilities on the Prime Minister and President of the Government, the reduction in the prestige of the Ministerial Council, the existence of critical responsibilities of the Minister, pre-central structures, etc. Well, do you not know that our parliamentary system has a Prime Minister who under the Constitution and the laws has all the responsibilities he then shares with the ministers? Why, if he did not have these responsibilities, how would he be remodeling? Could any Prime Minister make a different reshape and change his ministers and get new ones and change the structures of the Ministries and change their names if he did not have those powers? Let's assume you don't know what I don't accept. How do you mean, now? We've spent all this time this entire decade, Mr. Papandreou's period of triumph, going from triumph to triumph. Did Mr. Papandreou have the right to transfer his powers to his ministers? I see Mr. Ragosi here. He hadn't missed a triumph. He had obviously given this right to the people who had voted for him. When seven new hierarchies were being set up in the Maximos Palace - I am presenting the reports on the Minutes, with new addresses, where all of them were sitting under Mr Papandreou's close associate, Mrs Vartzelis and the General Secretariat of the Prime Minister on all the points of view of the wise and how she would be, and how so, I see 'first test for the Ragosi headquarters' - then Mr Papandreou had the right to do so? Didn't he take important responsibilities from the ministers? He didn't demolish them? And these secretaries directly interfered with the Ministries if you see their objects: Seven hierarchies within Maximos. So there is no question of that. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsipras with whom did he rule? With his Ministerial Council, has he ruled or with his Strategic Ministerial Council, the Ministerial Environment, the State Ministers who were inside Maximos and the State Secretary here? The most neural sectors in Tsipras were the ministers of Maximos: coordination, information, control mechanisms, investment, banks, and even the General Secretariat of the Public Property. Those ministers, Flambury and the Pope, had become a multi-tool. All of it! There was nothing that wasn't assigned to them at intervals. Wasn't that an intimacy of ministers? For example, when Mr Papapas was commissioned with the information and investments from which Ministry took them? How? Has the Ministry of Investment not been weakened? When Mr Tsipras commissioned the supervision of the banks, even taking it from Mr. Drasakis, the Vice-President at the time of the government, did not demolish Mr. Drasakis? Bank supervision was Mr. Flambury's job? And when Mr. Flavouraris took over under his supervision the General Secretariat of the Public Property, which is legally owned by the Ministry of Finance - and by FEK -, then the Minister of Finance had not been transferred critical responsibilities? And finally all these people had knowledge, experience, endurance to get everything on them? As far as we know, no. So why did Mr. Tsipras commission all the work he considered critical to his personal ministers and came here today to criticise a structure that is transparent, which is related to coordination? Let me give you another example, Mr. Quick. There are supposed to be control mechanisms in the state. These control mechanisms were all transferred to Maximos under a General Secretariat for Combating Corruption. And while he had a Minister of State, Mr. Nicholoudi, who was supposed to have been under this General Secretariat, he also put Mr. Quick in order to coordinate, he says, the mechanisms that were supposed to have been in charge, but he also needed Mr. Quik, because he solved his hands and opened the streets. Has the entire control mechanism, which must be independent, not been transferred to Maximus? When Mr Tsipras appointed three Heads of State and a State Secretary with the Prime Minister and assigned them responsibilities, he obviously had in mind - and you must recognise that the current Prime Minister must also be able to do so - the need to coordinate, learn and learn. There is nothing unprecedented that Mr Tsipras told us about 1969. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, excuse me. I would like a minute to say something about the ILO.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u294	I didn't interrupt you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much. You're talking about the ILO. To reach agreement, the ILO with the third memorandum that you brought to the country was passed on to the Secretariat-General of Public Revenue. I'll put it in the Minutes so you can keep it from saying it again. This is where it has been clearly passed. And why is that? Because earlier, in March 2015, your government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, to which you referred, set up the General Secretariat of Combating Corruption and you brought it all to Maximos. The troika came and said 'no' then. The ILO will go to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, so now you don't mind going to the General Secretariat of Taxation. I'll testify for the Minutes. It's from the Athenian Agency. I don't think you're questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u296	Good, Mr. Swimming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u297	I'll be done in a minute. You continued from 2015 to 2016 to transfer assumptions from the ILO to the General Secretariat, with the result that two decisions of the Council of State will finally come and that none of these cases will be controlled. Please, too, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And this is to dissolve the myths about the past and what may happen today. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u298	We will make an assessment of the time, which we will be announcing later, so that there are no Members who will be waiting. We'll see how we proceed and we'll tell you later. Mr Ioannis Economou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the importance and weight of the reform which the government is trying to reform with the draft legislation under discussion, it would be useful not to go into a trenches of conflicts about who has reproduced the negative stereotypes of post-multipleism, the fight in advance lost in the consciousness of the citizens, but to consider the distortions and pathogens that have characterised our political system and the reflection they have had on the citizens, the development and ultimately the quality of our democracy. What did we have? We had policies that were announced or even - even voted on, but their implementation was blocked in the scratches of bureaucracy or canceled with changes in political persons, even within the same government. We had extreme politicisation and partisanisation of the public administration, which one of its results was the depreciation of the authority of the hierarchy in the public sector. We have had a great dispersion of control mechanisms, which largely overlap with responsibilities, so that we have arrhythmias in controls. We had laws that are so complex, but at the same time too weak that they can be easily altered by presidential decrees, by joint ministerial decisions, by executive circulars, so that at the end of the day the law can't give it up, but the politician can't give it. Here, you know, the list of consequences for citizens, for society, for the economy is long. I would like, for reasons of time, only to refer to a flagrant case of this category, which, in my opinion, is the conclusion of the construction of a country based on the production of weak, powerless and often void regulatory acts from the point of view of the political class. I shall refer to something that has been heard twice in this Chamber but with a different approach. I refer to the case of the former Public Administration Inspector General, Mr Rakindzis. Note: According to Law 3074/2002, the Public Administration Inspector General is chosen for a five-year term, and is appointed and ceased by presidential decrees. Mr. Rakintzis is in the post of Chief Inspector General of Public Administration on 13-9-2004 and his term of office expires on 13-9-2009. By 2016, however, Mr Rakintzis continues to be a General Inspector for Public Administration. In early 2016, Section III of the Council of State comes and says that the Chief Inspector for Public Administration - precisely because the necessary presidential decrees have not been issued for the continuation of his term of office - is illegally holding this post and the decisions he has made are at risk throughout this period to be considered invalid. Note that from 2009 until 2016, the country was governed by four prime ministers, the governments participated six parties and every year in the House, Mr. Rakinjis came in and gave the report in the account of his actions. Four Prime Ministers, six parties, every year in Parliament, Mr Rakinzis and the President-in-Office of the Council, who would hold him institutionally - regardless of who did not want him, whose friend he was or was not - was not issued, so that his regulatory acts would be void. If that, ladies and gentlemen, is not a clear proof of how brave and great steps we need to take in the institutional armour and modernisation of our legal culture and our operation, then what is it? I submit for the minutes the electronic press articles on this particular incident. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the things I have described above must be changed if we are finally to build a state. And to change, it is not just the good intentions of people who are in the government or in the parties. That is not enough, because if there is no crystallised institutional shield, good intentions at first will gradually fall below the weight of news and everyday life and then crush themselves at the expense of electoral or establishment approaches. This very pursuit, the crystallised institutional armour, attempts the bill for the final state in four specific directions. First of all, there is a key pillar in the legislative process, which is the Secretariat-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, which will be the only one responsible for the final legislative process of any draft law. At the same time there are some other very serious things going on. Only one I shall refer to. It is well established - and rightly so - that the new laws, in particular those which have a financial and bureaucratic burden on businesses, are valid at certain dates. Secondly, in order to combat corruption more effectively, the National Transparency Authority is created under which all individual audit authorities are gathered and consolidated in terms of public administration and its audit procedures are modernised. Allow me here, Minister, to say that it would be useful for the government to consider to a second degree the corresponding architecture and other control mechanisms, which are primarily necessary, for example, in the fight against blockage, the fight against illegal Greekisation in agricultural products, the chaos of urban transport by means of ticketing and the occupation of buses, which also does not come to an end. Thirdly, the institutionalisation of public administration is guaranteed and the role of civil servants and the new institution of the Secretary-General is substantially strengthened, with its very substantial responsibilities as well as the role of directors-general and with the fact that critical powers of management of control bodies are passed by government or party officials. Wednesday direction: An innovative philosophy of governance is being established with the Ministerial Council to give a single coherent operational governance map and the Prime Minister can actually intervene and resolve coordination issues, which in many cases create arrhythmias and delays. And all this is done with fewer Ministers of State, with fewer general and special secretaries, with fewer posted officials and less costly, as has been pointed out earlier in the statement by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the final state bill, in my opinion, does not just respond to a need for decades. It is recommended for the country and a great opportunity to do things differently, i.e. to finally have a worthwhile manipulated and efficient administration at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios from SYRIZA is now begging Mr. Nektarios Santorinios to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe that this bill makes a final state? A government and a ministry must obey four basic functions, which our rapporteur mentioned, namely the legislative initiative that the government Presidency has somehow removed from the ministries, the strategic planning and annual planning of the Ministry's activities, the financing and hierarchy of funding, and ultimately the control of legality and implementation procedures. The implementation of who? From where the activities will be decentralised, so that you can really say that you have a perfect structure that has decentralised structures that they implement. That's exactly where you're doing the opposite. You are building an over-concentration, anti-productive, bureaucratic state, binding many times - and this is an innovation and we must recognise it - multi-ethnic procedures. You are building a bureaucratic monster, a hydro-capital institution with the name of the government, in which there will be four hundred forty employees, perhaps more than it seems, of which the hundred posters - probably more than a hundred - said the Minister - may also be able to take heads positions, with five general secretariats and a special secretariat, with a significant involvement in the legislative work of the ministers, with the creation of an impediment to the functioning of the legislative powers of the ministers and with the introduction, as I have said before, of procedures of multinational companies. You know, this introduction of procedures, as well as the direct delegation of powers to the State Secretarys by the Prime Minister, creates, on the one hand, divisions and overlaps of responsibilities, but on the other, it also creates a suspicion that you may not trust your Ministers and simply make them directors of "Government S.A.". You're telling us about the colonization. It was the government of SYRIZA that has really brought about the breakthrough with the establishment of the Register of Officials that you are abolishing, with the introduction of the sectoral and administrative secretaries, which you are also abolishing. And what did we do? We stopped having politicians, appointed Secretary-General, party secretary-general. What are you doing now? You bring the party Secretary-General with the posters who will accompany them and the official Secretary-General, i.e. we will also have two Secretary-General at the same time in the same Ministry, and the official and political secretary-general. Remove the procedure for placement of Presidents of administrative boards, members of directors, legal persons of the Government from the Executive Registry after you have removed it. So you return to your sinful past, in the past, of the partyry of the state. I'll tell you one thing about the shipping department. You abolished the Secretary-General for Maritime Affairs and left only the Secretary-General of Port and Port Infrastructure, a Secretariat-General dealing with shipping, shipping and shipping. Do you know what the result was? That the Coastal Transport Council today cannot meet, which advises the Minister for Coastal Affairs. So you managed to create a topic on the coastline, which I do not know how to solve and, indeed, it will be interesting to see how to solve it. Now we're going to the other big deal, the posters. Four and a half years you've been telling us about the posters. Is poster sliding? Apparently, not much. You said that they were six hundred ninety-five, plus twenty, a total of seven hundred ten, about as many as we had. But what do you reduce? Their formal qualifications. They can all be high school graduates to settle "blue" children. Well, don't you have blue kids with a degree? Do you have to put high school graduates in order? Don't you have enough? You don't have seven hundred with a degree? And what else are you doing? You're raising their wages too. And what are you doing? Increase journalists at the press offices. Those who, in other words, failed to be elected by those who snuggled you for four and a half years and passed your propaganda will put them in the press offices of the Ministries. Congratulations. Their wages are worthy, apparently. You're undermining control principles, like the ADR. The Labour Inspectors' College has managed to reduce the undeclared work in recent years by 10%. You're downgrading the ILO. And finally, the statements of today's Prime Minister in the pre-election period, when he was in Kastelorizo, he said, 'We will not send you either the ILO or the EPA'. Congratulations. You did that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u302	But they are not abolished, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u303	Well, we'll see, Mr. Gerapitri, if they're gone. We'll see how they function. In any case, however, they are degraded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u304	They're upgraded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u305	I say they're downgrading. So you are founding the National Transparency Authority and you appoint the Governor by a decision of the Prime Minister and a simple majority by the House. You go to the National Transparency Authority and nominate the commander, who will also designate the heads. Why? Because your desire was and is the abolition of the General Public Administration Inspectorate. For it controls the scandals that Paul Paulakis mentioned a few days ago in here. And I expect to see how you will ensure - and I accept your intention, Mr Gerapetti, that your intention is honest - that these scandals are controlled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As for good law, three bills brought both of them are urgent. Go on, tell me about HICPIA it was urgent. The other one that is being discussed in committee today why is it urgent? Just a minute, Mr President, you will allow me. None of these bills passed the Central Legislative Committee. They have a series of legislative improvements. And something terrible. It seems that when they came out to "DENMARK", I am passing on this to "DENMARK" after the debate was started on the Legislative Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u306	That is not the case, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u307	For the other bill that came out before, they concealed the comments on asylum and I ask you to check this out. Because here there are surnamed complaints that they have made comments on asylum and have concealed these comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u308	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing today is a hard party, a right-wing state, with safeguards of the philosophy of multinational corporations. The people did not choose you to build a S.A. government, right-wing, did not choose you to abolish the sovereignty and the colonization. Not only does the bill serve its title, it leads to a hydro-brain and at the same time party state, returning the state years back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u310	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that after the communication of the President of Parliament with the groups in Parliament, it was decided that the roll-call vote should take place tomorrow at 22.00 a.m. Please, let Mrs.Auger Theodora come up to Step by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a particular challenge for a newly elected parliament to make its first speech in plenary after eight and a half hours of procedure, after so many speakers, former Prime Minister, Ministers, rapporteurs. So what's left? In this very short time I will try not to repeat things very important with which I agree, someone I object to and object to and keep your concern and yours and those who are watching us. Both from the contents of the bill and from the debate which was preceded by the committee responsible and the committees - because I want to link it to the debate initiated in the committee responsible for the Multifibre Arrangement - all these debates strengthen the view that your plan, Mr Minister, said so by the former Prime Minister, other speakers, have said so - it is well thought out and very planned in a way that is implemented in a fast track. We should point out that this draft law on the final state was introduced almost at the same time as the so-called multi-legislative draft. It is also being discussed and voted on in an extremely urgent manner. In fact, a few days ago very much has been tabled, and the most important amendment with which the Committee on Competition and its members are in fact being misused. There has been a lot of discussion in today's process, Minister, in relation to the faces, political weight and political work they may have. I would like to focus on what is going to happen with the open cases that are being investigated, because that is what we did not receive an answer. We have received an answer to the committee for another authority, that of the inspector. You have given us, in your reply to second reading, the assurance that there is no possibility of all these cases being investigated. You've been tied up orally. I also raised the Minutes. This is your answer, as I carry it, self-determination. Before speaking, however, we had tabled an amendment to the annulment of the Competition Committee. However, because the words leave and the writings are left and it is only the law that is finally being observed and because you had the chance to bring all these transitional provisions, I ask you: Why, while you want to be fair, do you not look just? Bring some transitional provisions to ensure that these cases are investigated to the end. I am also referring to a case which the Committee on Competition is investigating, which concerns this case of competition in the press. It's a clear question. I would like an answer, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u312	If I may, are you referring to my bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u313	No, no. I say that before you say that you commit orally that all cases concerning the inspector will be completed, an amendment was tabled that effectively annuls the Competition Committee and raises questions as to whether the investigation will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u314	Not here, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u315	No, no. I say, however, that a new act has come to disprove you yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u316	It's me? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u317	Because I assume with the new bill there will be another new law canceling another audit committee. That's what I'm saying. But I would like to finish, because I am talking about the relationship and coherence of the bills, Minister. It's not just time. Both are based on the same political concept of power and serve two political objectives. The first objective is institutional and state-of-the-art and aims to influence the country for a long time. The second is short-term and party. The main aim of this law on the infamous state is the transfer - and many speakers have said it today - to the Prime Minister and to structures, controlled by the same institutional and politically crucial decision-making on the administration of the state. Any degree of independence of the institutions and bodies is becoming dependent, while democratic representation is replaced by the Bulgarians and the decisions of a Prime Minister. Analogous are the centralisation targets in both the field of self-government and the digital organisation of the administration, which are promoted by the almost parallel multi-project, which I mentioned above. The fact that the rapporteur of the bill is an approved professor of constitutional law does not reassure the citizen, on the contrary, he is more concerned about it. Because it is clear that the policy of deregulation of the essential functions of democracy, the concentration of superpowers on the Prime Minister and short-term party interventions is, Minister, fully conscious. The truth is, and I must acknowledge it to you, that you have made some changes following the hard criticisms you have received, not only from the Civic Opposition, but also from the other opposition parties and the bodies in the committee that participated in the process. These changes, however, are not the condition, despite the cheese in the communication lens, to prove that you are a consultative, even though we have experienced the great contradiction: consultation is late one day. The philosophy of the bill does not change or change, of course, and the government's decision to abolish the independent control bodies, while what is maintained will now be under the umbrella - has been said many times today - a single authority, this transparency, and a single head. I will go beyond all the others that have been heard - there is no point - about non-democratic, anachronistic, bureaucratic, dysfunctional governance model that is subordinate to a pro- Prime Minister. I would like to get to what I had also pointed out in my position in the committee, on the issue of depopulation and the avoidance of all this from the political centers. You referred to this, Minister. I told you in my speech to the committee that although you are a professor of constitutional law, a public law, you do not love politics and politicians, because you want to transfer this interest to other centres of power, what we call 'private'. It is obvious that this is done, not through the window, because there is a series of recruitments of people, what we call 'transmigrants', and there has been a lot of discussion today, but in fact it is the entrance through the rotating doors of the so-called 'private interests'. This is demonstrated and demonstrated at all times. How private interests will displace the key role for which the administration, the public interest, services to the citizen and the state are exercised for the sake of specific interests of a private elite. This is reflected in too many manifestations of this bill, Minister. We will vote against it. Thank you very much for the patience you have had in the committee to hear our objections and especially for the fact that you have endured this whole process so far and I imagine it will be until the end of the sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Dritsas is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Christos Spirtzis, Parliamentary Representative Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, the President and many Members of the SYRIZA, but also other parties, think that they have set out in a very credible and documented way all those arguments which demonstrate and demonstrate that the title 'final state' is false and possibly a intention of its inspiration, but does not reflect reality. It is a central project of control by the Prime Minister of the country of all functions unknown at the moment with what potential for success, because the contradictions are obvious and many, but they are unknown and the purposes and directions he wants to serve. I will not have to go any further on the individual issues, I will have to choose another approach. Before that, Minister, I would like to invite you to stand until tomorrow in paragraph 1c of Article 113 and to intervene and either eliminate or repair it creatively. You are accompanied by the university's reputation with a liberal spirit, with the thought of open horizons. The bill does not confirm that. That's my point of view. But here I think you have a role to play. The national account of Greece has already been set up many decades ago by Paparigopoulou and by the contribution of many players. We do not need to send out a signal of lack of confidence in the two hundred years of national regenerativeism. You don't have to. On the contrary, we need to send a message of open horizons, of meditation, of remodeling all wealth and of regenerativeity, but also of the course of two hundred years with a national self-awareness and that is the best offer in the two hundred years of the Greek Revolution. Ten international conventions to be organized by all countries, and especially by Europe and the Balkans, are the greatest offer for this reflection. This paragraph 1c has nothing to do with what has evolved in the course of the Greek nation and as far as we have arrived. Don't make such tragic setbacks. Until tomorrow I think that you should also speak to the government to reconsider, because this proposal is unfortunate in this case. "Myriako, make a state!" We heard. We laugh, but in any case we need a valuation. Why has this state not been made, what is desirable, the final one? Why, for example, is there the poor legacy mentioned and mentioned in the explanatory statement or in the very text of the law, while we have a Court of Auditors that controls the legislative proposals, while we have the General Accounting Office of the State, while we have the CENE, while we have the service of Parliament, and we have the staff of the parties, while we have the House? Why don't we have a good law? Without an assessment and an evaluation - for example, at all levels, is this the case - a sufficient proposal can be made and when we are now debating whether or not there has been consultation? For the ultimate state in Greece, if it has any substantial content, it would take six months of general consultation involving all the universities, all the institutions, and not just to talk about uploading or not going up the consultation for a few days, which did not go up, which came up late and all. But what I care most about is that we are talking about an effective state, about an efficient state, about a modern state, and these words, these characterisations have a completely subjective charge. What does it mean to be effective? For who? Until where? All of these are nice words, they have a positive sign, but they are judgments of a subjective nature. The social state where is it, Minister? There is no point in the explanatory statement either. Well, in the election propaganda of New Democracy nowhere did this phrase sound, "social state" and nowhere in the law. The rule of law, which is not the law state, is the state that ensures that it restricts, restricts and controls the self-determination that each state has. Don't you agree that's the rule of law? Say another term! If we do not talk about the social state or the rule of law, how can we talk about an effective state? But these are technical issues and you do not like politics, from what you have said in your suggestion. Mrs Auger said so before, that, as you said, the policy should not affect management's decisions. What's management? Neutral? Is that a vision? It is no accident, these doctrines are the doctrines of neoliberalism. Reagan and Thatcher imported them. Yes, you disagree. But they have introduced all these terms and beliefs so that there is no political cost to politicians, parties and governments. Yes, not accepting political costs measured in terms of transaction with citizens, but in terms of political costs for the consequences of one or other policy on the lives of people, on the increase of inequalities, on the lack of political costs? It has become a doctrine, a general principle of dominating ourselves at no political cost. That's the posture, the alienation of life from politics. It's the depreciation of politics. Politics is the synthesis of controversy produced every day in every society. There is no society without controversy that is produced and reproduced constantly. This is the highest role in politics, in composing conflicts in a creative and forward-looking direction. But if these things are not elementary, to inspire the administration, how will it do its job? Because he will have a appointed or political commander, a Secretary-General, or one or the other? And these are obviously useful. Each system must be studied, but not boned and alienated from the substance. In this direction, then, I see that the macho-liberal inspiration proposal that you have the unfortunate introduction of - I do not know if you have been treated as a whole - has nothing to do with the needs of the Greek people. It has to do with the needs of a system to reproduce and is highly anti-lingual, highly technocratic, highly authoritarian and highly personalized. It must not be promoted. It will fail anyway, because it is foreign to the needs of life itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u320	Thank you. Mr Constantine Kyranakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u321	Thank you very much, Mr President. A great deal has been said in committee and in plenary. I think it is not worth repeating what has already been heard. But there have been too many inaccuracies both within and outside Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. So let's go see them one by one. You told us, colleagues of SYRIZA, that the posters are growing. We were told by the former Prime Minister that the metastasy and public costs are doubled. What, then, is the case under the bill brought by Mr. Gerapetritis? In the National Transparency Authority, posters from twenty-eight are reduced to eight. This is how we save EUR 500 000, half a million from this reduction. The proposed positions for lawyers with an order unpaid are reduced from ten to two. Saving here touches the 250 thousand euros. In the new unified structure of the government's presidency, the posters will be a hundred and eight. How many were on SYRIZA? Let's go see what applied to SYRIZA. General Secretariat of the Prime Minister: eighty-six posters. General Secretariat of the Government: fifty-five posters. Vice-President of the Government: 20 posters. Total: sixty - one poster. The Minister's draft law shows a 30% reduction and thus savings of more than a million euros. Also, the positions of Secretary-General and Special Secretaries from ninety-three are reduced to fifty-eight, i.e. a 37% reduction and a saving of about 1.8m euros. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] There are other examples, but I think that speaking deliberately false information in committee and in plenary does not honor anyone in this Chamber. What else did you tell us, SYRIZA colleagues? What we are abolishing, says, the ILO and we are abolishing the Labour Inspectors' Corps. Some people said we're downing it if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Santorinier. There is one issue here if we are abolished or degraded. That's what you have to decide between you two. What does Article 111 of the ILO bill say? Heads of Directorates-General responsible for these services are set up: Head of Directorate-General for Economic Crime, the ILO -, the General Secretariat for Tax Policy and Public Property of the Ministry of Finance to which the services of the ILO are subject. What does Article 111 also say about the Labour Inspectors' Body? A position of the Inspector General of the Labour Inspectorate of the Head of Directorate-General is hereby set up under the responsibility of the AAR. The general inspector shall be selected and placed, in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Code, an I.C.R. inspector or the other employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Is that a degradation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u322	Because it was...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u323	And if it is a deterioration, Mr Santorinier, my dear fellow Member, why, when we put a public administration official strictly in charge of these services, do you consider it a deterioration for the first time? Didn't you trust the civil servants? What are public administration officials? Guys of another god? So, individuals when they're set in, you're judging it. When public administration officials enter, you're still judging it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u324	We didn't fire civil servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u325	You don't like either. Let's take a line first and then come and tell us. Upgrade, therefore, is that, ladies and gentlemen. Because in this way we show that we trust public administration officials and want, in the implementation of a modern policy, to have allies to public administration and not to consider them as party volunteers, as you described them insultingly, in my opinion. The audits for which Mr Paulakis, who does not give us the honour to be in the Chamber, will continue, because Article 82 of the bill, as you deliberately do not mention, reads: 'From the entry into force of this Act the following bodies, all the rights and obligations which are transferred, in accordance with the specific provisions of this Act, to the established authority, which is a universal successor'. A universal successor, ladies and gentlemen, means that all responsibilities, all controls, are transferred to the new independent authority. So that means that all controls will continue, all of them without exception. Don't have any concern and no doubt. And be careful what you wish there in SYRIZA, because there is also the possibility of checks that might have stayed in the drawer of a party appointed general inspector or inspector, to see them continue. So, ladies and gentlemen, take care and wish. What else did you say to us, Mr Spirtzi, as rapporteur and even three times? I have heard you say this in committee and in plenary. That we'll hire, he says, our relatives to the public. Didn't you read Article 76, Mr. Spirtzi?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u326	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u327	In Article 76, does not ‘Appointment to a posted official shall not be made in the event that the candidate for appointment has a spouse or a symbiosis, within the meaning of the relevant law, or a relative of the first or second grades of member of the Government or State Secretary’? Didn't you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u328	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u329	So this is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u330	That's the way it was before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u331	Because for four years, by abolishing the previous provision of the Samara government, twenty-secret ministers and MPs of the SYRIZA appointed their relatives to the public. We therefore abolish this provocative practice, with the express, strict and unequivocal prohibition not to be recruited as relatives to the public by all government officials. Finally, we have been very critical of the fact that some specific positions of the National Transparency Authority are allowed to be managed by private individuals. I also heard a colleague a moment ago saying that it is unheard of, he says, to put individuals in these positions. I have also heard that we are selling everything out in private interests, as another colleague in the committee has told us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go see what happened on SYRIZA. Please give me a minute of your tolerance, Mr President. Constantine Christou, Secretary General for the Combat of Corruption, private. George Vasiliadis, Secretary General for Combating Corruption, also former State Secretary for Sports, private. Anastasia Dave, also Secretary General for Combating Corruption, private. Nasos Iliopoulos, Special Secretary of the Labour Inspectors' Corps - you downloaded him for Mayor of Athens - also private. What about them? They were the good individuals and the ones described by the Minister in his own bill are the bad individuals, so that we can understand what's going on? Ask at least your own before criticising. I would like to close - for a few seconds if I have your tolerance, Mr President - to say two words about the proposal I have tabled to the committee, Minister, on the articles in which I propose a change in the way we legislate. I am very pleased that with your team you have made a titanic effort to unify scattered provisions in just one piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Cyranaki, you've been over eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u333	Twenty seconds and I'll be done, Mr. President. We therefore have a responsibility to safeguard this effort and to codify and consolidate laws, and I therefore encourage you, Mr Minister, in the good legislature that the committee responsible is expected to adopt to put this new way of legislating so that in future we can avoid these bad practices of pluralism and evil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Panos has the floor from the Change Movement. I would like to inform my fellow Members, in order to be prepared, that today we will arrive to Mr Christos Giannoulis of the SYRIZA. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems relating to the conditions of governance and the organisation of public administration have been recorded and discussed many times in the past. We have been following with interest the efforts of the Government and the Minister responsible for tabling a comprehensive proposal on the modernisation of public administration and the creation of an effective state at the service of the citizen. The draft law on the final state, which the government has been voting on since the first days of its election, seeks to establish a new system of organisation and hierarchy in public administration. It is true that the way in which the state, its agencies and its services operate is characterised by deep-rooted bureaucracy, dysfunctionality, dyskinesia in many areas, when other European states have solved these issues for many decades. We, as a Change Movement, have tabled concrete proposals for radical combating these phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, the government comes to solve the chronic problems of public administration with this draft law, which is typically called 'final'. It seeks, through this legislative initiative, that the state now carry out its mission and its work, that it finally achieves transparency and impartiality, fundamental principles of administration. The state at the service of the Greek citizen, with transparency and equality. In this draft law, this is unsuccessful. It is not a state that is decentralised, with the division of powers in local government and in sub-services, but rather a more centralised one with all the decisions to go through the demonstrable presidency of the government, namely, from the prime minister's authority. The Government, under this draft law, has a dangerous increase in the number of posted officials and Advocates-General, but does not allocate equal and rational responsibilities to such persons, but ultimately by concentrating their total on the central government, thus making the State not final and decentralised, but ineffective and over-concentrating. The position of the Change Movement is clear. Principles such as transparency, impartiality, administrative control must be exercised by decentralised agencies. Local government actors must have substantial responsibilities, with social accountability and control by independent authorities, for citizens to intervene and co-formulate through consultation and e-government. So, in fact, this is a centralised state rather than a final one, with the Prime Minister having the final say of every service or issue of the individual services of the public administration, taking away the decisive competence even from the ministers. A balance is therefore sought between political staffing and the necessary autonomy of the administration. On the one hand it maintains its general secretaries and special secretaries, and on the other it establishes the secretaries-general as senior officials. It is trying to respond to the coordination of the Ministries through the transformation of the government's presidency into an executive centre, with a number of staff secretariats. We all know that in the functioning of complex organisations we insist on the need to combine coordination, monitoring and planning with flexibility and initiative. In this sense, the government is a collective process which, in the present draft law, is converted into a pre-central. The performance of the state becomes a pyramid structure, where a central project simply specialises rather than seeks defined cooperation, networking and continuous synergies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the state that we want to establish for the moment and the future of Greek citizens, future generations and our children. It is a strict and stiff state that, instead of sharing, accumulates competences in particular persons. In this state the Change Movement states "residents" to confront its program and proposals, but also its parliamentary presence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Pana. I will adopt Mr Kegeroglu's proposal for a bank of time. Mr Nicolakopoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the major problems I have encountered in my professional career as a lawyer - and it is the main problem of the daily life of Greek citizens - is the functioning of the state, the relationship between the citizen and the state. It is a common assumption that the Greeks need a more friendly and effective state, a state that responds quickly, correctly and fairly to its demands. The main features of this problematic relationship between the citizen and the state are bureaucracy, pluralism, malpractice and lack of coordination, opacity, bias, anxiety, partyism, corruption. Corruption favours tax evasion. Data from research into an eighty-eight countries indicate that countries with the lowest levels of corruption collect about 4% higher taxes than countries at the same level of economic development, but have higher levels of corruption. I will focus in particular on the chapter of this draft law containing provisions establishing the National Transparency Authority, with key objectives of strengthening the independence and operational efficiency of mechanisms and public accountability policies and combating corruption. In the model of the most effective internationally relevant bodies, the authority will have powers to prevent and investigate phenomena of fraud and corruption, but also to raise awareness of society about transparency and public accountability, for the first time in the history of the country in a single authority the responsibilities necessary for an integrated policy, to strengthen integrity and to combat corruption. The organisational and operational model of the Authority is based on the model of the most successful internationally-successful relevant actors in countries that are in the first positions of the anti-corruption indicators. Data from European countries such as the Italian National Anti-Corruption Authority and the United Kingdom Internal Audit Service were also used. I am presenting in the Minutes a document dated 15-7-2019 of the European Confederation of Internal Auditors on the importance of setting up public audit committees, as well as the 2017-2022 strategy to combat corruption in the United Kingdom, which has been used to develop the modernity of the National Transparency Authority. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is not a precise copy of the models developed for countries with potentially different characteristics and needs. On the contrary, the institutional, organisational and operational model prescribed by the proposed provisions is based on a thorough account and analysis of the weaknesses of the current situation, as well as the weighting of alternative reform options in relation to the real needs and challenges of Greek reality. The problems and pathogens have been repeatedly recorded in relevant exhibitions of international organisations and Greek experts. The phenomenon of the anti-corruption mechanisms for micropolitical and party purposes is also known. Similar initiatives to reorganise the control mechanisms have also been taken in the past, of course, by simply focusing on their integration, with the corresponding SYRIZA - ANEL government in 2016. I am speaking in the Minutes of the then Secretary-General for Combating Corruption Giorgos Vasiliadis. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is also a report by the OSCE drawn up with the Ministry of Justice. However, political will and technocratic adequacy were always lacking in the design and implementation of a coherent and integrated reform. The proposed provisions implement the most comprehensive reform in this area since post-policy. It is intended to educate and raise awareness of transparency and integrity of society as a whole. Actions to prevent and prevent corruption shall be prioritised. The independence of the public administration's main control mechanisms is strengthened, in response to years' malfunctions. The public audit mechanism is being strengthened, focusing on a strong principle the existing powers and know-how. Innovative systems and control and accountability tools are developed. The vicious cycle of micropolitical controversy and political prefecture of mechanisms to control and combat corruption is broken. Control bodies are released from hugging with the government and ministers. Emphasis is placed on the creation of a broad social alliance, an all-powerfulness of the public and private sectors. They strengthen citizens so that they can demand accountability from us politicians. Citizens are the supreme auditors and evaluators of our action. As far as the structure and staffing of the authority is concerned, I would point out that the consolidated entities were provided for twenty-seven posts of specialist consultants and partners, and only eight at the beginning. Ten positions of lawyers were also foreseen with an order leased, while only two were at the beginning. These positions increased significantly over the previous government. We prefer the use of many and worthy public officials and officials, and that is why we are increasing the positions of inspectors and we for the first time provide for positions for public officials working in the anti-corruption and awareness-raising units of society. I'm going to be brief on the reactions of counter-population. As clearly illustrated by the text of the law, no control powers are dismantled. Instead, they are strengthened and their effective exercise is ensured. No control, no 'understood' investigation or action against disciplinary decisions shall be stopped. The choices of the administrative bodies, even with transitional provisions, are much more imprecise and objective than those of all six unified bodies. Just read the relevant laws and case-law of the Council of State, decisions 1849/2008 and 2350/2017, which I table in the Minutes and which are decided on the nature of the post of Inspector General of Public Administration as a poster on account of the system of placement laid down in Law 3074/2002, as currently in force. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is certain that particular individuals and interest groups want to perpetuate the current inefficient organisational structure and operational approach. Some just don't want to lose their chair. Others just don't want to get untied. A third, more dangerous group does not want for obvious reasons the strengthening of independence and the upgrading of the role and operational adequacy of the control mechanisms. All these people want with unfounded and imprudent allegations to block this structural reform. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens are at the heart of this reform. The government dares to dismantle the fight against corruption and focus on the needs of citizens. We are counting on the co-existence of all healthy private sector forces, civil society actors and, in particular, the many worthy and experienced civil servants and officials, whom we will exploit and trust in the implementation of this reform, which is the property of the Greek state and of the Greek citizens, is responding to the priorities of the Greek society and runs horizontally and creatively the whole of government action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr. Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u339	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion bears the title 'final state' and is an ambitious project on the effective governance that we need as a state. Another modus operandi of the public, a new effective governance is not just an option. It's an undeniable need. Colleagues of counterpopulation rushed to criticise the bill. First of all, the criticism of the members of the House of Representatives about the lack of consultation, even pointing out the so-called contradictions between the regulations of the bill and the procedure followed. Although self-evident reasons for urgency relating to the immediate functioning of the authorities set up by the bill made it inevitable to waive the marginality of the consultation process, it was ultimately completed. I would remind you that the stakeholders have expressed their views and in the committee there has been a substantial and constructive debate with better proposals and Members' comments in the individual articles of the bill, several of which the Minister accepted and incorporated into the final bill. I mention these because the Minister's readiness and response to change is rare. It deserves special mention from this Step and, in my view, requires public praise as an undeniable indication not only of political culture, but above all of political openness and maturity, as well as of full control of the content of its bill. The opposition also reiterated the well-known designations of so-called partyisation of the state. A key point of criticism of the Vice-Presidents was the provisions of Articles 21 next of the draft law on the establishment of an independent executive agency called the "Principle of Government", which is directly subject to the Prime Minister. These provisions, ladies and gentlemen, form the core of the bill and introduce arrangements to cure chronic diseases. To date, I would remind each Minister that he has taken up a role as coordinator of his Ministry's services. But when we needed an interministerial action, we faced the phenomenon of overlapping powers. The officials were given multiple and sometimes contradictory instructions, thus showing the administration ineffective. This has to stop. With the draft legislation being discussed, the Ministers retain all their responsibilities, while at the same time maintaining full responsibility, as is expressly laid down in Articles 13 and 14. The Prime Minister plans, coordinates and evaluates the government's work at second stage, because he has, according to the law, but also the provision of Article 82(3) of the Constitution, the task of ensuring unity of the government's work and of course bears political and parliamentary responsibility. There is also a common denominator of all the views and observations expressed on the draft law, regardless of their subjective dimension or, possibly, their ideological colours. The current state as a system of governance does not, and this is a common place - the anticipated one. Active changes are therefore required. Nearly everyone agrees that the efforts of the worthy members of the administration are canceled in the demonic provisions and are lost in the swamp of partyism and general inertia. Furthermore, those attempts to improve structures, as good intentions have so far mobilized them, have found difficulties in their practical implementation. With this draft law, the central administration can now have the final, coordinating and auditing role through the establishment of the government Presidency that will make a decisive contribution to the implementation and assessment of critical public policies. In addition, there is a clear distinction between political and operational administration. This seems to be quite clear in the provision of Article 109 of the draft law, on the basis of which all the responsibilities for the adoption of administrative acts, namely the majority of the administrative material, are transferred to the Directors-General. This reduces bureaucracy and reduces the risks of customer pressure. This demonstrates the government's confidence in the public administration, which offers incentives for efficiency and greater responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly refer to the provisions of Articles 57 next of the bill on good legislation. Legislative and legislative control must concern the agreement of the law with over-legislative provisions and the Constitution, as well as its integration into the body of existing legislation. The legislative process aims at fewer and better laws, which in Greece is constantly demanded. The final state introduces a General Secretariat as the only body responsible for the final legislative process of any bill proposed by the Minister. Another independent multidisciplinary committee is established to evaluate the quality of the draft law and its consequences analysis. Although it did not result from the Government's draft law to discontinue or intervene in any way in the procedures under way, it was clarified by the Minister and provided in the bill that no existing or ongoing controls would be interrupted by the creation of the principle of transparency. On the other hand, all the checks carried out are being carried out regularly, as are the orders in question. Ladies and gentlemen, every piece of legislation is, of course, the question of the application of the provisions contained in it. Let us leave the triumphant designations of opposition and stand by the substance of the bill. Finally, Greece is the division that has been taking place since decades in all advanced administrative action systems between political and service administrations. The first has a regulatory and strategic role, the second has an operational role. This prevents and inactivates corruption and reduces bureaucracy. It seeks the efficiency of the state. Planning and evaluation of the implementation of decisions are introduced. So let me be allowed to paraphrase. This draft law is not only summarised in the final state but in the words ‘end state’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Buga. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to say that yesterday was 4 August. And because this Chamber is the cradle of democracy, and because this Chamber has a memory, I think we should make a reference to the 4th of August to remember all on that brilliance day when democracy was abolished, a dictatorship was imposed with the cooperation of Metaxas and the then king and to make our criticism as a political system and we always have to say these things so that the living history of the country is not lost. I want to come to this bill and make a methodological observation, Minister. The state by definition is final, otherwise it is not a state, otherwise it is a legal person governed by public law. It's a public service. A State that is not final is not meant. After all, for us to be on the left, it is the state that comes as a condensation of class conflicts, for you who are liberal is the state that balances the conflicting interests of society. However, by definition, a State is finally or in any case you understand that it has to be. So, by presenting the final state with a goal for conquest, I think that we are reducing our expectations as a modern political order. In my view, this draft law has a total effect on it, on the transfer of popular legitimacy to foreign-policy centres. That's the concern I'm recording. And because, after nine hours of presence in the Chamber, the technical characteristics and Minister have been very much told, both you and your Chamber and yourself, with your continued presence here, I want to stay in some institutions, in my view, features of the bill. So you are creating a superstructure and not a side by side, but above the Ministerial Council. I am afraid that - although this could work - we will have holograms and not ministers with flesh and bones, ministers who take decisions and implement policies. I therefore believe that we have a very serious breach problem with what we have introduced as political practice, namely that policy should be produced and implemented by the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council. My fellow constitutionalists might be able to develop unconstitutional aspects. I will not do this because it is neither the moment nor the scientific facilities to exhaust it. But I put it as a reflection factor. On the basis of the bill, the Prime Minister, from the very first between equals, is actually representing the state. From the 'primus inter pares', which we knew in our political system, we end up in the 'L'état c'est moi' by King Louis XIV. I say, therefore, that based on the inertia of the system, based on the pathogens that the system has and on this radically opposite section that you are trying to bring about, this will not work. There will be responsibilities, one structure will be involved at the other's feet, the structures will be invoked, and at the end, during our dear tradition, this process will perpetuate and go back to the established ones. A government presidency is therefore created in this bill. Five secretaries shall be created. A special secretariat shall be established. Minister, I would like to ask you in good faith: the National Printing Office, what do you want to do with it? What are you gonna do with it? Why, in other words, this excessive tendency to concentrate on a purely administrative agency? What's the point? I see here in Article 46 that eighteen employees are appointed to each Ministry, which is eighteen employees for seventeen who are the ministries. They will also be twelve young employees to each Minister. A special secretariat shall be set up in each Ministry with a special secretary and eight staff members. Two posts of journalists are set up in each Ministry. A place of permanent secretary shall be introduced to each Ministry, etc. Also - and this is what SYRIZA spokesman, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has said - the Independent Transparency Authority is being established. The first will be appointed by the Prime Minister, and then the new head will himself appoint the new Heads of Authorities, effectively assigning from the beginning, to your "good morning" the existence of this principle. We made a proposal to which we insist. See it again. It is a golden opportunity to achieve convergence in both individual and, above all, to strengthen this new beginning of the Independent Transparency Authority with all the guarantees of impartiality and political independence. I also want to stay in the bill of expenditure. It says here the annual report of the General Accounting Office of the State that this expenditure is about EUR 2 million. In other words, it is a very serious operating cost, which must always be consistent with the results, which, in our view, is unlikely to be collected. I would like to say in addition to what I have said that you are arbitrarily experimenting with this process. While, in other words, there is the way to intervene politically and politically in order to regulate the functioning of the Ministerial Council for which you are taking the view that it will have regular meetings, you are creating an uncontrolled essentially over-structure. In essence, that is to say, you are transferring political legitimacy to foreign-policy centres and we are very concerned about whether this will work. In any case, our view is that we are not legislating properly, that is not what we are doing. This bill does not have the prospect that you want to give, and that is why I think that the effort will be in vain. Mr President, I will conclude by saying that under Article 113(1) (c) the committee's objective is to create a single image and identity of the country and the institutions of the Greek state. Look at it, you have the sensitivity to treat it, to shape it well. Let me make a final comment: we will celebrate in 2021 the two hundred years from the beginning of the Greek Revolution and not from liberation. Liberation came later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament meets in a new composition following the elections of 7 July 2019. In fact, in the new composition of the House there are many new colleagues and colleagues in all parties, and that is important. But I would say that from today's debate to a certain extent, and more generally, now that the landscape in the Greek Parliament is different, in the sense that we do not have the extreme racist, Nazi voices here in Parliament, we can have a serious debate and the controversy really focuses on specific issues and that we all try to maintain a level, because the Greek Parliament, the plenary Chamber is neither TV nor press nor newspapers. So there is also an exchange of political views. Of course, the House must operate in this way, with a specific political level which also reflects the Greek people who are watching us and, on the other hand, there must be no government coups, compliance with the procedures and the Rules of Parliament, etc. Today we are discussing an important, key draft law for the final state. As the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, the world's demand is 'create a state'. But I come here and say - and I think we agree, perhaps in words, but in practice we must all make a state out of small-scale without a transaction, speed, citizen service, respect for the institutions of the state, a state of values of democracy, transparency and, of course, not a customer. At the same time, of course, a state that respects structures and follows the structures and functions based on modern European data, defends the national interest and meets the needs and needs that citizens demand. Unfortunately, however, I think we have started a little badly, at least for this bill. A draft law was tabled without prior public consultation, an important process, which after the deposit - as far as I know - was concerned. On the other hand, this bill was not passed by CENE. And I dare say that there was no involvement of the services, that I should say, of structures and of the ministries respectively in its structure, because little - very much - and I think we all agree on it - there is always a continuity in the state. The state staff bill has inconsistencies, contradictions, and I think it has become rough. It shows a rush and an effort to fit it all into one, thus building a text that I believe will be repaired to much along the way. And it is good that some steps have already been taken since the committee procedure on the part of the government. I will focus on two - three issues related to the bill. The issue of the Secretary-General, political and service secretaries. The Secretary-General in political terms appeared in 1982 in the exercise of the duties of the Director-General, who was gradually abolished. These positions were at the outset given to failed states, parties, who mostly had little to do with the subject, depending on the results. Over time efforts have been made to place more relevant secretaries to the subject and there have been some small improvement points. With the Government of SYRIZA and by law of 2016, General Secretaries were declared transparent, through ASP, with specific criteria. You are now coming to this bill and you are even abolishing the register of officials. You are, of course, creating special public secretaries, thereby trying to show some objectivity. Of course, when these positions will be served, we do not know that yet. I would say, therefore, that the New Democracy Government is giving a pre-central character to the state at its disposal, creating a bureaucratic wave with the Secretary-General for Internal Economic and Development Policies, the Prime Minister, who coordinates political secretaries, creating parallel structures, the secretaries-general, through the government-led hierarchy and maintaining the directors-general. I mean, we have a coating, the coating, oh, I'd say! On the other hand, there are malfunctions, even in the operation of the Ministerial Council itself. It all starts at the Prime Minister's office. Even the legislative initiative belongs to the Secretary-General of Legal Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs, and I believe that this is the way you want it to be devaluated by the role and the Minister himself. This bill is rightly described - features refer to publications, etc. - as a prime minister, a personalized and supranational authority, a central government. That's what I think they really characterize the bill. The second issue. The decisions of the Director-General for Public Administration, although not always respected, left a suspicion of hope and justice, which has often been a reality. The abolition of Article 82(4) and, in particular, the abolition of the position of the general inspector - this is well mentioned - only in suspicions can he put the most well-meaning one for the fair functioning of the state, as well as for the finding of the NOVARTIS case, which is expected at the end of the summer, and I think - I am afraid - that the New Democracy would like to be archived. The creation of the new transparency principle, I believe, serves the above. In conclusion, I dare say that this draft law indirectly attempts to alter our own culture. If we combine it with the alteration of the election result in the self-government elections with a mere proportional representation in local government with the reforms that are being promoted in KLISTHEN, and it is the bill that is currently being discussed in the committees and on Thursday it will come for a vote here in the House - I think a reasonable presidential system is being developed from the back. Let us think about this, because I think that it is very serious and actually shows some things, which I think all the political forces should think seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Happily Lazarides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all a few seconds of emotion, but also to become aware of my responsibilities as a new Member of the Kavala, responsibility for the citizens of Kavala who, and I thank you for the honour they have made of sending me to the Greek Parliament, to the citizens of our country, to the exercise of politics, to the quality of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, ‘This is not a state. If you don't have a barbas in Koroni, you don't do anything, "We'll never be European", "These only look at the chair, we don't look at us," "Do with me a Prime Minister and I'll change everything in one day." These are phrases that I heard against coron in the cafes of Philippi, Nikosiani, Keramoti, Panagia of Thassos, in my constituency, Kavala. And I am sure that you have heard the same thing in your own constituency. What are we doing here today? Today we are responding to what has been complaining about all these years in Greece. Today we give them a clear and tangible reason to believe that things can change for the better, that the state is not an enemy. He's an ally. That it doesn't work for some, but for everyone. That it's not a dark chamber of entrepreneurial dependence. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for all of us to say a great 'no' and a great 'yes'. A great 'no' to continue the bad practices of the past, the practices we used to call the pathogens of the system. And a brave "yes" to what he imagined, Mr. Minister, incomprehensible for our Greece, in the transformation of the state by a person, a deceased, possessive system, into a flexible and dynamic policy-making instrument. The objections of Officer Opposition indicate who wants to go forward and who wants to stay stuck in the past, who is really progressive and who is deeply conservative. The opposition, therefore, hypocritically says: "The Prime Minister's new huge structure is being created and the number of posters is growing in the Ministries". Wrong. The planned number of posters in the government's Presidency is 28% reduced. In fact, from a total of fifty falls to eight. In addition, the number of central government posters is reduced by 11%. There is a reduction in the positions of the general and special secretaries from ninety-three to fifty-eight with savings for the citizens of EUR 1.8 million per annum. The opposition says: "Since powers are transferred to public service, the role of the ministers is restricted and their democratic accountability is difficult". Wrong. The draft law introduces a uniform degree of service of a Secretary-General from the administration itself, i.e. a public career employee, which is created by AEP procedures. We are talking, in other words, about effective functionalisation of the administration and not falsely decommissioned Klapa type, where the party secretaries of SYRIZA wrote the notices, participated in the proceedings and were finally chosen as permanent secretaries, based on the doctrine of SYRIZA "We have the government, we have to take power." Basically, we're getting the state out of full partyism. The country was fortunately saved by SYRIZA by citizens on 7 July. In other words, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is coming to do what he said since 2004 when he was elected for the first time as a MP. The opposition is saying: 'We are preventing the rules of transparency and accountability'. Wrong. The exact opposite is true. I mention, for example, that all political general and special secretaries will be regularly assessed through a contract of performance they will sign. It says the Opposition: "The National Transparency Authority that merges the previous control bodies is being blocked, due to the transitional appointment of the First commander". Wrong. The creation of the principle is the most comprehensive structural reform in the area of public accountability, transparency and the fight against corruption. The mere fact that it incorporates the scattered control structures today speaks for itself. So let Greek citizens know the truth. For the first time, an integrated system of institutional counterweights has been established with direct involvement and decisive competence of Parliament's Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency. A five-member management board shall be established which shall be selected by a public tender and which shall verify and be able to discontinue the commander. The setting-up of an audit committee - audio committee - is being established for the first time in a public body to strengthen the independence of internal auditors. The selection of the commander by an open tender procedure and an independent procedure shall be established. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And because time is pressured on me, I submit to the Minutes precisely for which the Qualified Opposition accuses the current government, the proof of hypocrisy, the laws with which the SYRIZA ministers personally chose the head of the auditors. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr. Mercos Lazaridis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, seconds ago I delivered key words describing all the pathogens of the Greek state: partyisation, bureaucracy, pluralism, multi-determination of responsibilities. With this draft law all this changes. In simple terms, all this will gradually pass us through the koumparos.gov in a real open.gov. And what the Mitsotakis Government is doing today is just the first step. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need your tolerance for a minute, Mr. President. There is a lot more to be done to get to where we all really want. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that there is a renaissance table in Lorenzetti called 'The solidarity of good and bad governance'. If you expect to see a public person, some kind of government meeting, a king or a prince, you will be disappointed. What you will see is a medieval town with its walls and towers in front of which there are farmers and other professionals who are distracted to carry out their work. What does the painter want to tell us? He wants to tell us that good governance is the one that ensures the terms and conditions so that everyone can just do their job. That's exactly what we do today. If you think everything is well burned, don't vote. If not, come together and paint a modern good governance painting like that of Lorenzetti. So no one can find an alibi in the misery of ostrichism. So we can stop treating each other's politics as a personal chip. So that we do not have to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, again in future how we have reached this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Boutsikakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the final state bill there is a leading administrative reform. A new integrated and modern plan for the organisation, operation and transparency of the government, government institutions and central government is being put in place with a uniform and coherent regulation of all individual issues and the abolition of all fragmentary arrangements that are dispersed into dozens of laws and regulations. But why is this bill so important? I will not tire you, repeating the content of the provisions, which I am sure we have all studied in detail. I will only say a few words about the substance and the importance of the new arrangements. Upgrading the Ministerial Council overall changes the way the Government operates, which will now operate with programme, unity and cohesion. The Ministerial Council will, from now on, collectively approve the annual planning of government policy and, in addition, monitor and collectively evaluate its implementation in order to coordinate governmental work and at last produce concrete results. The creation of the presidency of the government is necessary for the Prime Minister of the country to have the infrastructure and human resources which will enable him to respond to the institutional role which the Constitution reserves to him. This is achieved by the organization of the relevant services and the division of responsibilities in the Secretariats of the Presidency of the Government. The introduction of adhesives, incompatible and rules to avoid conflicts of interest ensures the impartial exercise of government or administrative tasks. It is precisely for this reason that these impediments concern not only the period of performance of the tasks concerned, but also the period after leaving the post. The ban on recruitment as poster employees of spouses or relatives of the government puts an end to the family rule. The seasons that one Minister or State Secretary hired members of his family or, in order not to be exposed himself, hired another Minister, go unreturned. Finally, the recruitment of relatives to the government. The introduction of the new framework for good legislation puts an end to the uncontrolled production of laws. By simplifying and codifying existing legislation, pluralism and evil are dealt with. All the pathogens of legislation that lead to lawlessness are treated. The subjection of government administrative action to principles and rules contributes significantly to the effective protection of citizens' rights. I am thinking in particular of the principles of good governance, good administration, transparency, accountability, efficiency, efficiency, necessity, subsidiarity, merit and professionalism. These authorities are now specific content with corresponding administrative obligations. The reduction in the Secretary-General from ninety-three to fifty-eight does not only imply the better, faster and more effective functioning of the public administration. It also generates savings of EUR 1.8 million per year in the state budget. The establishment of a permanent Secretary to each Ministry ends the party state. The delegation to the Directors-General of the competent final signature for each individual administrative act of their services, together with the corresponding provision for the Secretaries-General, entails a drastic reduction in bureaucracy and corruption. The establishment of the National Transparency Authority is expected to make a significant contribution to the integration, coordination and upgrading of the control mechanisms that are part of it, to enhance transparency and to combat corruption more effectively. The draft law on the final state lays the foundations for a modern efficient State that operates in practice to serve the public interest. It may seem too ambitious for the data of Greek reality, as we used to it to date. But to change the situation, someone always has to start over. The elections of 7 July closed a period of social, economic, political and cultural regression. Our goal is to self-powered Greece, a Greece that runs hard and goes forward, with unity, schedule and hard work. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government worked for a "new normality" that means progress and not return to old pathogens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Butsikaki for the time. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are carefully following the government's announcements and legislative initiatives. Today we are discussing the draft law on the heavyweight title 'Extreme State'. It is apparent from the contents of its articles that it is a bill setting out the functioning and transparency of the Government, the Governmental Institutions and the Central Public Administration. I do not know whether we can define this as a final state because, Minister, an effective state means - and I believe you will agree - that the central government retains the powers of strategic planning and public policy and decentralises implementation. The bill restores centralist perceptions to which we opposed and systematically fought the institutions, which the PASOK governments have created. Apart from my point of view of your scientific work - and I am following it - I shall make a few comments, Minister, on the bill. Of course it is a surprise unpleasant to me in relation to you, because while the bill says that it introduces rules of good law, this is, from the outset, undermined by your political practice. There was no consultation before the draft was introduced to the Standing Parliamentary Committee. However, non-consultation means, Minister, an infringement of the law and we have repeated violations of the law, with the appointment of the Secretary-General in advance without respect for the transparency of the 'open.gov'. The excuses given to the committee during the debate of the bill, namely that the consultation and the infringement should not be respected, because of the law which provides for it, I think they are also scientific and politically inappropriate, if I may say so. So the government, ladies and gentlemen, has been overshadowed by the stress of communism, which has been in the first hours it has been sworn to show readiness to deal with things, to impress communication, but without question, in order to respect the essential process of legality. Is there, at the same time, a major contradiction between the theoretical presence in the draft law of the rules of good legislature in relation to its political practice, which is revealing the logic of indifference to the laws? There is one question here. Minister, the drafted emblematic bill I would like to believe will not be followed by similar non-legislative practice of introducing bills to be discussed. I consider it a deficit - from the outset, I say this - the way in which this bill was introduced, because if the law were to forgive the presentation of the consultation report at any time, it would explicitly provide for it. It does not expressly provide for it, and I think that we may be in a pretext to justify a lack, given that any explanations have been given to the committee. Second note: With a d.d. 84/2019 the Special Secretariat of the Labour Inspectorate was abolished, among other things, and a General Secretariat of the Labour Inspectorate is recommended, which includes one Directorate-General, two Directorates-General and the Labour Inspectorate. But there is no evidence, Minister, that the advisability of abolishing the SEA Special Secretariat and the integration of the Labour Inspectorate into the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Labour, because the Labour Inspectorate is an independent agency, harmonized to the 81st International Labour Convention, has an operational and organisational structure clearly defined. And I would like to point out that it was set up following a report that was presented in 2006 by the Commission of European Union Labour Inspectors, SLIC, which, in the outline of its conclusions, says that for the good functioning of the EIC, would positively contribute greater autonomy to the administration of the EIC or to the budget. However, since 2006, when a special secretariat was put in place late, we are coming today and we are not abolishing it - I will not say that - but in any case we are downgrading it, because its operational independence is lacking in the way it is integrated into the bureaucratic mechanism. That is our view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u350	Under the Directorate-General.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u351	It does not show what information has been taken into account and what has not been implemented in order to select this structure. And, of course, I will also ask my question and explain that it does not belong to the National Transparency Authority. Two specific bodies, the Labour Inspectorate and the Environment Inspectors are excluded from this principle. You spoke about market inspections and the ILO. Minister, market inspections have indeed done too many things and of course many attacks have been taken. And because we're on the market, in all respects, we see what's going on. It was the 'Achilles heel', unfortunately, of the controlled. They had the problem permanently and the permanent discomfort of the audited was the APRC and the Environment Inspectors. I also say this from personal experience, and I am talking about the APRC and the Environment Inspectors, in connection with a Prosperity River and an Industrial Area of Oinophilus, in relation to the Labour Inspectorate. And of course, as you can see, they were also dissatisfied with the observance of GDP. Finally, a multi-teaching administrative system is introduced, Mr Minister, which relates mainly to the Prime Minister. A prime governance system is being established. I do not know and ask if this system introduced by the bill has been simulated to a university school of administrative law or public administration, but a reference to Greece has not been adopted from the outset and a motto imported from abroad has not been adopted. Careful reading reveals cross-references and overlapping of responsibilities and a multi-educational administrative system with various general secretariats, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, Minister. An over-centralised governance system is revealed. That's a stranger. Today's bill is about the final state. It does not, however, concern itself with this because it can only be a decentralised state. This bill is only a law for the Prime Minister, the Government and the Government institutions, and not for the final state. It may have been referred to as the prime minister's office, but not as the final state. It can be positive to organize the Prime Minister's office on German Chancellor's standards. However, we must not forget that even the Chancellor in Germany defines such a centralised state as the Greek one. Germany is a federal state and local government plays a decisive role in citizens' lives. Of course, knowing of the problems that exist in the efficient functioning of the Greek state, even the Prime Minister needs organisation, not for some other reason, but in order not to relive tragic situations, as happened last year in Matti or also in the tragedies, as happened in 2016 with the then Prime Minister and then the Minister of Shipping in relation to the PPA and 'COSCO'. Ladies and gentlemen, the transfer of so many responsibilities to the presidency of the government is a problem for the substance of democracy. For example, Article 25 states that the General Secretariat of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs takes over the final drafting of all the bills of the Government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You've heard any problems. I think there will indeed be issues in this matter. We believe that there is a distortion of whatever procedure you want to give in relation to good legislation and this General Secretariat of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs may cause issues to the legislative function and self-interest of the ministers. With regard to the powers of the Secretariat-General described, there are overlaps which will create particularly administrative frictions, which I anticipate directly next month. I will only say two words - and I am closing - for the Labour Inspectorate. We believe that his role is degraded in relation to the way in which he is placed in the Ministry's bureaucracy. Workers' representatives themselves said some things. I do not want to believe, Mr President, that the work of the EES will be established and that his work will be cancelled. I do not want to believe that this is also a strategic option for the New Democracy, with the aim of building up the labour market control mechanism and the basic pillar of protection of fundamental labour rights, nor is it a return to controls on undeclared work, which is a Memorandumary obligation. Minister, the big questions are before us and will be answered in practice. Firstly, will the official bodies, such as the Governing Centre, be served by people with knowledge and willingness to succeed in their difficult task?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u352	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u353	Secondly - and I conclude, Mr President - will the changes be possible or beyond the Greek culture, which is familiar with improvisation rather than with strict programmes? Thirdly, how will we avoid digital red tape with digital governance? The Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, has shown in depth that its opposition is combative, programming and constructive without bumpers. We will continue the path that we have taken, strongly opposed what is affecting the interests of the citizens, with a requirement of compliance with the laws. That is how we have been going over time, Mr President, and we are at our basic principle that the state must be effective, but it must also be decentralised. This bill is, unfortunately, a depository of administrative centralism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Ragus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that you could say that it is almost over and over. For our part, the rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, the Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos and, of course, the President of SYRIZA have developed all the arguments with which we have concluded, Minister, to have a very negative attitude to the draft law that you have proposed, contrary to the bill which - having the merit of stressing it - was tabled by the Ministry of Finance, for example, for HISBIA and the hundred and twenty instalments that we have voted very well. The truth is that on this basis I have to explain why I did not refuse to take the floor. The reason, Minister, is as simple as that. Because I said some things that may have been heard as a serious talk during the meeting in committee, I feel the obligation - because, as you know, I have at some point taken responsibility at some point and I have borne a burden for a period of time of this particular space and of this ministry - either to withdraw the serious words that I told the committee or to reconfirm them. I am sorry, Mr Minister, because I am obliged to reaffirm my assessments during the debate in committee. And I am starting with a very big subject of the draft law on the establishment of the Transparency Authority. Indeed, you have set up - I recognize it in a surgical way - an excellent procedure to unleash corruption cases that exist in the Greek State. And here I'm making a detachment, Minister, and I'm going to tell you this. Just because I have the honorary status of the former Minister of the Interior, you will often hear me being very strict. But you should know that with the same intensity as I manifest my rigour when I am faced with such a type of legislation, with the same intensity, I do not hesitate to praise positive efforts that I wish to see from your side. Article 88 defines who is the father of the Transparency Committee and is none other than the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. I told you in committee too. You have identified the existence of a committee that decides what will be managed by the Transparency Authority. And this committee will be controlled by the Prime Minister in three-fifths. In Rule 95 - I add today - you have added that this administration, which will be designated by Mr Mitsotakis, will be responsible for setting up the audit committee, which I have heard you say you are proud of, the auditor committee. And it is referred to in Article 95(6) that this committee of inquiry will be - look out! - responsible for the review and evaluation of the audit practices and the performance of the internal and external auditors of the authority. So you have created a principle based on a majority that is controlled by the Prime Minister, who is building an audit committee, which will control the auditors. And in Article 100, paragraph 19, you have predicted that the standards, procedures, planning methodology, conducting and drawing up the findings, Minister, inspection and audit missions, the procedure for managing complaints and petitions, the rights and obligations of auditors relating to the audit work, as well as the specific obligations of the audited bodies and agencies, are specified by the authority's rules of operation. What authority? The principle chosen by the committee, which appoints it who? Mr. Mitsotakis. Minister, these may indeed have required their completion as a complaint - yes, you have given it - and this is contained in Article 82(4). Who forced you, other than your will, to go in the direction you have actually been denounced, to cover up scandal cases? Why have you anticipated, Minister, in paragraph 4 of Article 82 that since the entry into force of this law, that is to say, when it comes to taking FEC, what happens? All the audit authorities are abolished. In other words, those who will nominate after a month, after two months as head of these principles that you will unify in this - supposedly - an independent authority, will receive from administrative officials. You don't even let the auditors stay in place to deliver, Minister. You said something to me in committee, which I am now tabling as absolutely inaccurate. You said, basing on everything we said to you: 'But we cannot, as we build a new structure, not change the inspector, Mrs Papaspyrous.' Well, you know what I did, Minister? I've called Mrs. Papaspyros for the first time in my life. I've never talked to the woman before, I don't know she knows me. And you know what I asked her? Why do I say in me: Imagine having told her Papaspyros: "Do you know something, we change the structure, do you want to join her?" And said Papaspyrou, because he has the alpha or beta ideological views, "No, I do not accept staying." So you know what Mrs. Papaspyrou told me? No one ever asked her, no one ever found her. Instead, he knows very well that he ceases to publish the law. Dismisses the general inspector. You don't even let her deliver to her successors. That's the one thing. The second point is, Minister, that you should allow me - in the form of speech - to say that all you have brought has nothing to do with the final state. That is why I must tell you that it is this, in addition to the others that have already been mentioned. One says that this is the ultimate state and asks a student, a citizen: What is the definition of an executive state? Shouldn't it be contained in the bill? You should. Well, it's contained. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Do you know what you say in Article 18, referred to under the heading 'Definition and Mission of Central Public Administration'? So you say that the mission of the Central Public Administration - because you told us that for self-government another bill will come - is the execution and safeguarding of the requirements of the Constitution and of the laws, the protection of the public interest, the care for the provision of quality public services in society and the general protection of equality, justice and social solidarity. That's very nice. Does anyone disagree? Oh, no. What does this have to do with the ultimate state? What does it have to do with a state that guides strategic planning, which is a programmed state, which is a worthwhile state, which is methodologically a state that organises consultation, consultation and, of course, everything about where the country should go, where the society must go, where the institutions must go, where the future of citizens must go? My last word, Mr President. Because I saw you really much available and very positive in humor, when you closed your speech to the former Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, I think that neither will you be misunderstood, if I finally tell you that it has proved not only the Chinese known one, but that the sketchographers are many times better and capable of confusing in much less words than we are using to render the substance, for example, a bill like what we are talking about. That is why I now present this cartoon by the cartoonist Andreas Petrollakis at "Kathimerini", which was published the day before yesterday and which, in my opinion, gives, in a very plausible and very condensed way, the very meaning of what a man understands, like Mr Petrollakis, is the bill that you have tabled. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned cartoon, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mr. Ragosi. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u357	I would like to make it clear to the Minister that, firstly, Article 88 has already changed since the second reading in committee and the members are chosen by the AACC and not by anyone else. Secondly, according to Article 82(4), the Independent Authority for Transparency becomes a universal successor to all the repealed bodies and therefore necessarily continues the checks. In accordance with Article 117(17) of the draft law, precisely in order to avoid any doubts as to what is happening and not from the entry into force, but in any event, it is expressly stated that ‘the whole, pending at any stage at any stage of the present case, checks, inspections and any kind of investigations, audits, pre-examination and disciplinary procedures and related to these cases, shall continue and be carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions, which have been directed by the repealed bodies in the name of the authority and by the bodies from which they have been delegated’. Of course, since we all realise that it is a wish to be consistent, in accordance with Article 5 of Law No.3839/2010, "from the publication of this law the term of head of organic units of public services, legal persons governed by public law, whether they are chosen on the basis of staff code provisions or on the basis of specific provisions".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u358	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u359	Mr. Ragossi, there's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u360	He falsified what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Ragosi, please. Firstly, there is no personal matter. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u362	It's been a while since he falsified what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u363	Wait a minute, Mr. Ragosi. Personal matters under the Rules of Procedure have nothing to do with this. Please, listen to me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u364	You said that before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u365	The problem begins with the Minister. Minister, check it out. If every Member, who is doing this whole process, is given the floor on staff, we will never finish it. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u366	On the basis of the President's Rules of Procedure from the time something is falsified, the President gives the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u367	Mr Ragossi, the personal issue, if you want me to read it to you, is about personal designations. It's not personal. If you do not think there is a distinction to your face, I will give you a minute, just one minute, to finish. Minister, I would ask you, however, if you would like to respond to the end and say your views, because if we do so at 12 o'clock in the evening, we may end tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, there has been a statement that I misled the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u369	You'll answer the end. Thank you. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u370	Mr Minister, first of all, it is very simple, in particular, that what I have read before you is contained in this file here. This is what you have brought to plenary, it has come on your own responsibility here. I did not read from the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u371	There's that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u372	No, this is it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u373	There are legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u374	You said that you have done so by the committee. I say that this has come to plenary, Minister. Look at it, to understand that all the things you've at least invoked have nothing to do with me. First of all, that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u375	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I need another thirty seconds. Minister, please very much, for bills made by the Greek state and for which some like me were responsible when you are told to be precise. Mr.3839, mentioned earlier, has a huge night-by-day difference with this bill you're introducing. Do you know why? Because then the procedure for selecting the heads was for the first time in the history of the Greek state, absolutely objective. There was no committee appointed by the Prime Minister, Mr Gerapetiti.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u377	Mr Ragosisi, thank you very much. Mr Rusopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u379	Mr Minister, at the end of the day, we have five speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u380	However, because there is a question of what comes in plenary, I want you to see this. This text can't be coming. We should all know. I'll testify for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u381	They're gonna talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Pappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u383	You are an old parliamentarian, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u384	Minister, excuse me. He's up a speaker, and he's in Step. Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u385	Since the President-in-Office is a Arcas, I remembered a story about fifteen years ago when a picture was stolen from a mountain monastery in Arcadia. After a while, the police found the picture. And then I remember politicians from all the parties that were dizzy - as they say there in Arcadia - the image on the shoulder and took her away. I told one of them that since we intervened in the work of the police - because the police would normally have to go hand over her, her own success was - to be ready when a mistake is made by the police, to charge the Minister. And it's not long ago, maybe you remember, an incident took place at the Omonia Police Department, where two foreigners slapped each other, some people pulled videos, that's what came out on the Internet, and the Minister, of course, was apologizing for this story. The Minister certainly has political responsibility, as does the Member from the time he is sworn to take the political responsibility for his actions and for the actions of the administration to which he is a political leader. I say this because the bill actually does something very important, among other things, actually separates the administration from the political leadership. It does not depopulate, as some people have said, depopulates the state. It is also demilitarization, another demilitarization. The separation of administration from political leadership has been mentioned earlier and Mr Varoufakis, if I remember well with that famous story, you will probably remember it from the "Majest, Minister", a very successful BBC, where it is the highest civil servant who tries to direct the Minister. I remembered, then, that in the first pages of his book, Tony Blair, a book entitled "The Journey", which came out about a decade ago, describes his agony and discomfort because he would have to cooperate with Downing Street with an administrative senior, politically-owned party. But he says: "I have found the seriousness and honesty of this official and so I have been able to cooperate and have a performance in my work." I remembered this - and I left to go to Tony Blair - to tell you, Minister, that I personally feel very happy with many of the points of your bill and you will understand why. The first is because when I was in this position of Minister of State in 2004, I must be the only Minister who then took the Director General of the former Ministry of the Press, Mrs Margarita Papada, and I gave her the post of Secretary-General. It was quite simple to think that a staff member of special value, as I had already seen from the time I was a journalist, once he took up the post of Secretary-General, would be able to face problems with the experience of thirty-three years, which I could only have for thirty-three years, which I do not wish you, nor wish my worst enemy in such a position. So, then, the first element is that when you recommend positions of service secretaries with this law, you make the civil servants feel really useful, you make them feel they can have an initiative, give them the opportunity to be truly necessary and not replace every time another party comes to power. I should like to take this opportunity to note something which has been heard several times in recent days and relates to the General Secretariats of Communications and Information. One goes to the State Department, the other to the Prime Minister. Since 1974 it has been a few years since these General Secretariats or the Press Ministry - which Andreas Papandreou had founded with the first Minister, if I'm not mistaken, was not the Prime Minister. He's always been to the Prime Minister. This does not mean that the Prime Minister himself was engaged in either the Athenian Agency or the Macedonian Agency, or of course any other of which our political opponents implied. The second issue that makes me happy, Minister, is the codification of legislation. In 2004 with my colleagues I commissioned an internal competition to a law firm in Thessaloniki and gathered all the laws from the establishment of the Greek state regarding media. Eight volumes. I've got them online. The continuation, whatever governments have come, has unfortunately not been as pleasant as it is. No successor took over to complete this work. Imagine that the gathering of laws ended in 2008 and no one after me decided to proceed with codification. I'm giving you the idea. The material is already in place and the codification can be started from there, from the media laws, workers there, journalists there, old printers and so on. The third point that makes me very happy is the duty of the Ministries to prepare situations by July each year for the needs of job vacancies in ministries and organizations. That's all praise can surf. I was then placed in public by saying something extra to put it in your mind if you find it interesting. I said at the time that it would be a good thing to organise a competition once a year in the standards of the pan-Hellenic examinations - for which no one can say that they have any problem, perhaps in the sense of the citizen the most intransigent examinations - so that once a year, after having gathered the information from the ministries and agencies, there can be a full-scale examination for the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the OECD report from 2011 already states that among the conditions favouring corruption is the weakness of central power, the complexity of the legal framework, the lack of basic data, the inability of control mechanisms, the lack of administration and human resources. I do not need to mention the many studies that have been carried out which say that the citizen is not happy with how the state works. The report mentions the lack of confidence that exists between citizens and states and vice versa, and that will be the great bet of our Government. The overlapping of powers is everywhere and I believe that to a very large extent this bill will solve many problems. The central control of the government's work is absolutely necessary. The impediments and incompatibility of postmasters really define the concept of colonisation to which I referred at the beginning of my speech. Here, let me make a reference to the issue of the Competition Committee. They heard a lot and the former Prime Minister accused us. I wonder: Do you remember, really, that the National Broadcasting Council, which is a constitutionally regulated authority, has been sidelined by the previous government in order to license the TV scene in the way the government wanted? Do you remember that this was called unconstitutional by the Council of State? How do you come and give us up for this now? I would like to close, Mr President, by addressing the Minister and saying that a great deal has been said about Article 113(c). I read it to you: "The development of Greece's national account for the purpose of creating a single image and identity of the country and the institutions of the Greek state are among the aims of the committee set up for "Greece 2021", the two hundred years since the revolution. Neither to Hobsbaum is the Minister, not to Gelner, not to Ericsen, nor to Andersen, nor to any of the major sociologists or anthropologists who dealt with national identity, because the bill does not define national identity. The bill speaks of the country's single image and identity. So what the former President of Parliament has said about him, about the perfection or about those elements that define the national identity has nothing to do with the bill. The national identity of this country, of this people, has been established for two and a half thousand years. It has to do with ceremonies, language, culture and religion. It does not solve these problems or mention the bill at all, because it does not seek to do so. Minister, I wouldn't change it if I were you. All I would do to remove these misunderstandings, if I were to do something, would remove the word "identity" and leave it saying "the development of Greece's national narrative in order to create a single image of the country and the institutions of the Greek state", only to erase the impression that the opposition tried to create, wrongly and completely unconsciously. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Russopoulou, you did well to talk about Arcadia. As Dimitris Reppas said, "All Aren't you, but you don't know it." Mr Dionissis Stamenitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the final state, which is the first reform of the Government for the operation of state structures and, in fact, the first project in the period of post-multiplement on which the functioning of the government structure will be based. It is commonly accepted that one of the biggest problems facing our country is that of the operation of public administration and the state mechanism. The fact that the state administration operates in a fairly problematic manner and that it is necessary to reform it is not today. In particular, during the years of the crisis, this concept has increased and was one of the key points of criticism of politicians towards political staff and the political system as a whole. In fact, the problematic functioning and inefficiency of the state mechanism has perhaps played the most decisive role in depreciating the institutions, policy and what we call a state. He favoured the forces of populism and easy solutions and gave space to political formations that took advantage of the citizens' reaction to a confessedly weak and anchored public administration. It is also known that "there is no state", which conceals the view of Greek citizens. The results of this trapped in all social strata are equally well known. In this context, the current government's mission is double. We have said this and during the programme statements, it is good to repeat it now. We have a duty to correct the wrong texts in practice, to provide solutions, to correct problems, to review errors and omissions. However, we have the same responsibility, perhaps even more to restore the image of the political system in the eyes of the Greek people, to trust us again in order to remove the risk of returning the forces of populism and the extremist elements. There's a lot of work ahead of us in the field of politics. But even more work is awaiting us in the field of symbolism. These two objectives are interrelated and equally important. By restoring the image of a structure or service, when it is effective, it operates transparently, it does not trouble the citizen and it does facilitate him and is in his service. By restoring, respectively, the image of the State administration, when it collects these characteristics and operates at the same time in the public interest. This is the difficult bet that we need to win so that we can unite in the following, in the era of growth and prosperity. We must first give the Greeks what they are entitled to and then ask them to give them back to the country by being consistent with their obligations. And they are primarily entitled to an effective modern and functional state. A government that is accountable for carrying out its executive tasks in terms of transparency and producing results shall be entitled. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as the draft legislation on the reductions in taxation and the immediate relief of our fellow citizens has been passed, much sooner than we had undertaken in the run-up to the elections, we come to legislate on the functioning of the government and the organization of the state of staff. An integrated manual that distributes responsibilities. It distinguishes the institutions of the State and standardises public procedures. A draft law which brings together scattered and fragmented provisions in a single text. It updates and modernises others that do not respond to modern needs. And most importantly? It introduces a number of institutional structures, which have as their main aim to operate the necessary structures for the effective functioning of the state mechanism without being dependent on and influenced by possible and potential political changes. Something that has been happening for years in all the modern states of the Western world. Unfortunately for Greece of 2019 it is still a request. It's a claim. With this draft law, we are doing it. At the same time, we are also aiming at the dismantling of the state mechanism and addressing and eliminating customer relations and reducing the size of the public sector. This is done through the practical and effective distinction between the government and the administration. Secondly, by ensuring transparency and integrity of state function and thirdly by coordinating for effective action by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens have chosen the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, by giving the New Democracy an increased potential to implement the programme that it presented in the previous period. They have given us a mandate, not only to correct what has been done over the last four and a half years but to correct what has led us to the economic crisis, recession and deficits. For modern Greece the first enemy of growth is the bulky, bureaucratic, our clientele state, which stands an obstacle, which acts as a huge wall to cross the opposite side. The road leading to the country's progress and prosperity goes through the path of modernising the functioning of government institutions and public administration. That's what we're legislating today. Of course we have also heard the voices of counter-population about supposedly overconcentration, unbundling control cases, deforestation. But, ladies and gentlemen, Greece must finally move forward. Ideas, obsolete perceptions are time to stop being a brake on the country's development and progress. We're moving on. We're looking at tomorrow. We build a modern Greece for us, our children and their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis. Mrs. Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although the time has come for us, we should not be paradoxical enough but also not to haunt the ideas behind this bill. The first bill, which we took in our hands and was deposited with this government, is entitled "Financial State, Organization, Operation and Transparency of Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration". Interesting as a title and an object. Moving to the reading of the explanatory statement, there is talk of increasing transparency, decoupling, functionality and reducing bureaucracy. That's very interesting, too. However, even with the first diagonal reading of the bill, one realizes that the title has nothing to do with the contents of the bill. On the other hand, this bill takes a major step towards strengthening the pre-central government. Increasing opacity and partyisation, creating dysfunctional patterns, abolishing independent control authorities and control bodies, prevails the doctrine of a "male authority". What's the result? The degree of democracy is dramatically reduced and you are hurting the concept of popular sovereignty with this bill. However, the only achievement - obviously your ultimate goal - is the concentration of overpowered powers on the face of the Prime Minister. The second feature of the bill under discussion is that it does, in fact, reintroduce a beastly blue party state with armies of poster, journalists and other partners. I will not forget the repeated criticism from the lips of my New Democracy colleagues during the SYRIZA ruling period. A review based mainly on lies and make news. "You appoint, you appoint, you appoint," they say and say again, without having the evidence and references they have made. And now they suddenly forgot those words. You are, however, smiling in the prospect of your customer promises. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, we were appointed. We appointed doctors, teachers, officials in critically depreciated public services through ASP and specific criteria. How about you? You are appointing party friends and only acquainted with the Prime Minister's sympathy to them - as he alone will have the power to appoint them - and without any qualifications, without any criteria. Electionally you said that you would make small, flexible forms in the government and ministries, you would also reduce the cost of governance. However, measure the number of ministers, measure the number of their partners and the poster and compare previous governance and today. Consider the monstrous mismatch of the government’s words and works since the first day. However, the purpose you wanted to take the government is accomplished to the fullest extent, as this aim was to appoint our 'our own children', to take the state back to our hands, to party it. What about excellence? Where did excellence go? The high-qualifications that have gone and that one? The evaluation, the credentials where they went? That's what you've been invoking for so many years. I repeat, therefore, that the only footprint left by the new bill is over-concentration of powers, opacity and the limitation of democracy. So the doctrine is "forward, back". And I mention features: ERT is going directly to the Prime Minister's control. The NSA is taking control of the Prime Minister. The Athenian and Macedonian news agency passes direct control of Mr. Mitsotakis, and the General Secretariat for Information. The Director of the newly established Transparency Authority will be appointed directly by the Prime Minister. How paradoxical is it to be called the "Preparation Principle" of this service? The Ministerial Councils are forbidden to hold - in the name of transparency? President. — The next item is the joint In other words, the right to know, control and accountability of Greek citizens is removed. A super-ministerial body of monastic proportions, called the presidency of the government, is being set up to employ more than four hundred post-master officials and seconded officials, chosen by Mr Mitsotakis himself. The only thing to do is to be a friend of the Prime Minister. The incompatibility that has been in force to date for the members of the government is also elasticated, leaving the system to be perforated again. After all, how can they fit so many people in a government shape with such a narrow framework of incompatibilities? There should also be intervention from you! At the same time, the register of Executive Officers which the SYRIZA government had legislated is abolished, reintroduced by you, restoring the sinful past of a party state mechanism in positions of responsibility. They are assigned Heads of Service for Coordination of Ministries by decision of the Minister and here without criteria and an evaluation procedure. And I can continue to mention other such actions described in this bill. Because all you care about is creating yards, multiple yards, parallels to hundreds of courtyards. Your bill is the epitome of the clientele, not the state of service. Transparency, dignity, evaluation, economy, functionality have gone a long way. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, all these provisions you suggest will help us to increase the transparency, decentralisation of powers and the efficiency of the state with the unprecedented over-concentration of powers on Mr Mitsotakis' face, the greater concentration of powers that the country has seen, at least in the conditions of the Parliamentary Republic? I wonder who serves such a centralized trick? The citizen? In fact, you have made sure that there is no institutional counterweight to over-concentration of powers. You're reducing government accountability and democratic control. At the same time, you are promoting arbitraryness, as critical state control mechanisms such as the ILO, the IEA and the Environment Inspectorate are downgraded or abolished, but also the Public Administration Inspector. Apparently, they are an obstacle to your dark neoliberal plans. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me only to make one point. The new Republic's rapporteur described the present draft law as emblematic. Emblem, therefore, expresses the core of the government's policy and priorities. The final state, which promotes the over-concentration of powers, the appointment of party friends, the reduction of controls, is the first and emblematic bill of the New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me remind you, then, that the first and emblematic bill of SYRIZA in the period of 2015 was what was involved in preventing the humanitarian crisis and defending vulnerable social groups. That's our difference. We prefer the social state rather than the state of the end. Obviously I am voting against this bill which promotes agarba, perhaps both flagrantly, the limitation of democracy and popular sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u390	Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor and we will conclude with two colleagues from SYRIZA, Mr Papachristopoulos and Mr Mamoulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to start by congratulating the Minister for the excellent political and technocratic legislation which brings to the House of Greeks and which our committee and Parliament are considering and hopefully gives the hope that at long last our state has a physics and a potential so that it can follow those states of the rest of Europe that operate and create with a view to the sad reality of the last four years, as we have experienced, where the state has been in such a tide that no hope has been created and, moreover, has been reflected in the election result. The Greek people, and at this level, reacted to this situation which had been created with the sole responsibility of SYRIZA and ANEL. This bill comes right after the first one that gives tax relief to the Greeks. This bill aims to rebuild and relaunch our state, and which, of course, is an important part of modernising the state, since it is a bosulus in how the executive operates by means of provisions that seek to rationalise and how power is exercised, so that the state can respond to the great social challenges of our days, but also to the demands of citizens and production and development units. Along with a number of provisions this piece of legislation strengthens the mechanism of accountability and fight against corruption with the establishment of the National Transparency Authority adopted through actions and with the aim of strengthening integrity and transparency with measurable results in the war against corruption and informing all citizens about this. There is no doubt that this legislation has been the most important reform section in our country for decades. And that is not a form of speech, but a reality as so far there has been no system of policy production. There was a total lack of rules in the functioning of the Ministerial Council, with heterogeneous works and the absence of any assessment. The bill provides the basis for monitoring the government's work and its evaluation. Apart from the evaluation, it is important that the conditions for monitoring the government project are created. The annual government planning shall be reflected in the consolidated draft government policy, drawn up by the General Secretariats of the Presidency of the Government and approved by the ordinary Ministerial Council in December each year. An annual government regulatory planning and an action plan of the Ministries is also provided for, number and subject to the drafts of the Presidential Decrees on Regulatory Acts, and finally an annual public administration's capacity planning. At the same time, new staff branches to support special functions of central government agencies, such as public policy analysts, legislators and digital policy analysts are coming to serve the operation and modernisation of the Greek state. Unbiasedness is a principle introduced at all levels of governance. The criteria for applying good practices to good legislation are adopted by the respective tested international practices. The main aim is to tackle pluralism and conflicting legal rules. The codification of legislation and the training of civil servants responsible for legislating are good practices to this end. Ladies and gentlemen, when considering the bill in the committee responsible, criticisms were heard from the opposition about allegedly anachronistic and anti-European practices for supposedly neoliberal invention within the state's function. It is ironic, if not, that criticism by the historically negative ones of the smooth functioning of our urban democracy and the European perspective of the country. Sterling, obsessive and ideoleptic opposition, such as the years of their governance. The mandate to the Government for direct changes is based on a series of legislation, one of which is what we are discussing. I would like to point out - and I will not mention it - that you have already adopted a number of the opposition's proposals very importantly - I will run them a little - as the members of the Committee of Greece 2021 have accepted that there will be no unpaid costs and that there will be no operating costs, that the provision that defines as a coma in the past five years of employment in a political office and so on is abolished. Overcoming all these assumptions you have made, opening up the mood for consultation with the opposition, so that really this bill will work positively, I would like to thank you for something else, Minister, for your acceptance of my proposal to include an explicit provision on islands. In particular, Article 62(1) and (2) provides that any draft law, addition or amendment, as well as a regulation of major importance, must be accompanied by an analysis of the consequences of regulation in relation to islandity. In this way, the constitutional provision of Article 101(4) of the Constitution, in which the joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are required to take into account the particular circumstances of the islands and mountainous areas by ensuring that they are developed, shall be specified. For the Dodecanese this reasoning really shows that the Government of the New Democracy will show particular interest in the prospect of our islands. Thank you very much for your patience, especially at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u392	Thank you. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. I want to say a good reason for the Minister who listens to me, he answers. It's tiring. It's been hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u395	And I recognize that you're not a believer. You may be hard on your controversy, but not faithful, compared to some of the other ministers on your side. It's an honest comment. Very quickly I have the following to say about the bill, and I would like to say that the Minister will agree. Without public consultation, without absolutely any treatment by the CENE, this bill comes without any contact with the public administration and the social institutions. It is the first time that legislative intervention has taken place in this area and that there is no public consultation. It seems a little dark to me that the private sector is involved in a bill like this. Heads of the Organic Units of the National Transparency Authority may be covered either by individuals or by civil servants. I want to believe that within you, Minister, you have some minor objections. I'm very mild and I belong to the people I think we should wait to see. For me, you must have a grace period around three months. And you've only been ruling for a month. I think you deserve that. Honestly, I don't want to raise the tons. And it was no coincidence that in principle the previous bill was passed. 5%, which became 3%, the That was positive. We had our objections from the 500,000, and we still didn't raise the tons there. I believe that what was done 'every month' or 'no matter what you said, I find it wrong', if you'll excuse me, it's not a credible opposition, it's not a serious opposition. I don't think that's gonna happen. However, I now come to some other things. I still want to say two words. You have abolished some laws that exist throughout the European Union and that is where they start: the National Register of Officials. Why? The Central Coding Committee? Why? The Public Administration Observatory. Why? There is no country in the European Union that does not have these. Why did you remove them? But I'm still there, and I'm leaving the bill, and I'm waiting to see where it's going to end. I want to go to more substantial, in my opinion, things. And I come to the chase. It took thirteen and a half years since Zoseran had given an interview in France and said: "Donagus the then Minister of National Defence". And one might wonder, "What are you saying now, Doctor? This is what has been done." Yeah. And Zamanika and Tulupaki who did so self-evidently, because Josperan spoke publicly about Mr. Yannos Papantoniou, they sent a judge to examine Mr. Zoseran. So we discovered in the five accounts a strange amount his wife couldn't justify and after thirteen and a half years - thirteen and a half! - He's been confiscated. Then, of course, it had been made by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors - not to say names now, it does not make - Toulopakis not take that position. Why am I saying that? How soon has Gregoropoulos' killer been released, Mr. Corkoneas? Just so this case can be cleaned up takes three days. One day, the next day out. Florus? How fast is he? He's still got 11 charges. He's still in court. And I still see a party crawling with history - and I mean it's not a speech shape, the conservative party you belong to has written history positive, many positive ones can disagree, but have become many positive, Kostis Stefanopoulos, Konstantinos Karamanlis and others - behind a Mr. Poulis? Indeed, he's in court. The man has not been convicted. And I hope that the presumption of innocence will also apply to him. He's indicted for four felonies and two misdemeanors and he entered your ballots. You were nominated by many of you. His trials are still pending. Why? Because Paulakis revealed twenty-one irregularities. Did you hear them anywhere? Oh, no. The world must not know how the country was governed! He has to move away from this story! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President. I am, after all, the last speaker. He might like it, dislike Paul. Paulis, however, spoke with evidence. He came with evidence of how the CDC was funding the channels at the time, about what they had to deal with the journalists. They didn't tell anyone. There was a tough, modesty - I'm sorry to say it - dictatorship! You want me to say it more politely? Intellectual property. Does that mean anything to you? SYRIZA in the last elections, under these circumstances, took 31.5%. Don't you ever forget that. He took that percentage under conditions of absolute median apnea! I'm saying that to get to know each other. I would like to say two more things. I was amazed at Mr Brutsi's first triumph of the Minister of Labour. The country - it says - will not become a clear vine. And cut the AMCA off from young children. He'll hear it from me all the time until he fixs it. There's no one, two, three, four, five years old. We do not ask 'who is this child'. He's a kid! I want to remind you of something else. The same man was talking about 24,000 pensions. We've been challenging him for days now to tell us an incident. We challenge him to bring us and tell us who got this terrible pension from the corrupt SYRIZA. No one called! He knows that very well! I'm sorry to raise the tones. This is how Greece ruled, Minister, which has nothing to do with you because you are new to this government. I'm telling you, your attitude, how you spoke to the Prime Minister, made me a good impression. You talked hard, but with decency. That's how the country ruled. It wasn't with virginity in this country. He didn't fail with virginity. He wasn't looted with virginity. Hard mediator dictatorship we lived and lived. But remember, we are in the era of e-government. There I'll support you again, because you have a young child I think she's doing a great job. He's not hiding anything anymore. It's not just newspapers, it's just channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u396	How long will it take, Mr. Papachristopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u397	I shall conclude, Mr President. I apologise for the overrun. I want to believe that there will be sound voices in this House from now on. It's not the country's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u398	Thank you. Mr Mamulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's final speech is the first and virgin to me in the Greek Parliament with a special symbolism. So we are discussing today in the national Parliament a bill with an extremely attractive title: 'Extreme state, organisation and transparency of the Government of Governmental Institutions and Central Public Administration'. However, by reading its content, we find that the inventiveness of its inventors has, unfortunately, been exhausted only in the title. In fact, the bill not only contributes to deepening transparency, the functioning of the institutions and procedures of the wider public sector, but is a great backwardness in relation to the democratic acquis in the functioning of public administration and the state. Hidden behind this completely false title we find the government's will to return our country back to yesterday, when customer relations were dominant and powerful. We see an agonizing effort to create a state that is cut and stitched to your party purposes. In addition to the codification work, the draft law introduces basically six key areas: Firstly, the creation of the supreme presidency of the government and the recruitment of hundreds of young officials to serve it. We are talking about a powerless and over-concentration mechanism that we all understand how it will be served, but also about the purposes it will serve. Secondly, the positive, in my view, creation of the electronic monitoring system for government work. Thirdly, the sad abolition of the Civil Service Executive Register, as well as the procedure for administering the administrations of the General Secretariats of the Ministry and the supervised bodies of Ministries, by replacing it by crisis procedures only for the post of the Administrative Secretary of the Ministry concerned. Fourthly, the arrangements to mitigate the existing provisions on the conflict of interest and the incompatibility of the Government and its servants with their activity as private persons. Fifthly, the arrangements for the creation of the so-called National Transparency Authority, which abolishes the public administration inspector, and all public control mechanisms that are not protected by such European directives are cycling under the pretext of creating only an independent authority. Sixthly, the arrangements which they transpose to the administration and the Directors-General are legal and criminal responsibility for the adoption of individual administrative acts, i.e. for all policy pursued within the Ministries, other than the legislative work itself. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, shows a certain perception of power, an antiquated concept of the functioning of institutions and democracy. In short, the power in Greece, according to Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Gerapetritis, was excessively diffuse to the ministers concerned, over-concentrated with the common mortals of the public service, but also over-controlled by competent control bodies and authorities questioning the work of the political leadership in question. These supposed errors are trying to correct the law’s authors. But, above all, the draft law takes care of the overall rupture in every sense of state's continuity. The New Democracy is being presented as ready for the state to recapture, but as we discover from the individual policy areas, sadly unwilling to tell us what it will do now that it has understood it. And in order to become more specific, I would like to bring some specific examples of this bilingualism in terms of its public and its role. Prior to the occupation of power the New Democracy blamed the previous government for the number of its posters. In less than a month, she doubles them. Prior to governmental responsibilities New Democracy blamed SYRIZA for not respecting the autonomy of the independent authorities. In less than thirty days, she breaks down the public administration inspector and is party to the leaderships of all the control bodies in the narrow public sector. Prior to the D-day of July 7 New Democracy accused SYRIZA of saying some of the notices appointing general secretaries under the Vernardakis law were photographic. Before August, the Government repealed any procedure for the appointment of each sectoral general and special secretary and the administrations of all supervised bodies of the Ministry. Prior to taking up governmental responsibilities, the New Democracy accused the government incurring to comply with good law-making rules. In the summer the government did not comply with those rules, nor was it supposed to renegotiate them. Prior to being a ruling party, New Democracy blamed SYRIZA government and the former Prime Minister for trying to establish a party state. Before you speak, three years before the government creates a strict economic zone around the civil servants who run the ministries, transferring all the legal responsibilities for government work to public service, without any involvement in the formation of the policy pursued. For all the above reasons, we call on the Government to withdraw this draft law or at least to withdraw these funds and provisions which affect people's confidence in public and in the political system in general. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Government has been forced to take serious action against members of the SYRIZA MPs and the relevant bodies to move back to a number of issues that are crucial for the public administration. However, the core of the bill remains unchanged. The definite state that New Democracy publishes is in fact a completely centralized, neoliberal and deep party state, oriented around just one person, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In this plan, SYRIZA's decision is sincere. We will support and fight with all our forces for a modern, uninformed and, above all, effective public administration, a public administration at the service of every citizen of this country, a public administration that operates solely to protect the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-08-05-S1-commons.u401	With the consent of the House, the meeting for Tuesday, August 6th, 2019, at 17.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing discussion and voting on the draft law of the Minister of State: "Italian State: Organization, operation and transparency of the Government, Government Institutions and Central Public Administration".
