ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 4/9/2019, the Minutes of the IE Bureau of Wednesday, 4 September 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire motion of the President of Parliament "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliament"]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr. Cyranakis. I'll start with communications to this House. The Ministers of State, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport submitted a draft law on 6-9-2019: Settlement of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), ‘European Governance Agency (ENISA)’. It was referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: Reveal it from 24-7-19 Act of Legislative Content "Accommodation of measures to address immediate risks and needs in the regions of the Regional Unit of Eastern Attica affected by the fires of 23 July 2018". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that, under No 14856/8538 of 6 September 2019, the Subcommittee on Combat Trade and the Exploitation of Human Rights was set up by the Subcommittee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u3	Finally, Parliament approves a leave for absence abroad by Angel Syrigos from 9 September to 11 September.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, entitled: "Follow it from 24-7-2019 BC. ‘Application of measures to address immediate risks and needs in the areas of the Eastern Attica Regional Unit affected by the fires of 23 July 2018’ (A' 127), Recommendation and Statute of the company "Mati again". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 September 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. In brief, I tell you that a ministerial amendment of the Minister for Justice, who will come to the House sometime before noon to present it and defend it, has been tabled last night. I think there is no point in the procedure. Therefore, the House has agreed to begin. Once Mr. Tagaras has gone to Stepmas until Mr. Spirtzis comes down, you can register the colleagues you want to speak. And I inform you, from what I have heard from the services of this House, that from Friday, tomorrow, we will be able to obtain from the competent office the new identities and on Tuesday you will probably be informed by the first-elected Members and, as usual, a training course on how these identities will be used. So, we won't have any more than next week's trouble of writing it manually from the lady sitting there. Mr Tagaras, rapporteur from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, about two months ago, the national tragedy, the murderous fires in the regions of the East Attica, was completed a year ago. Images with people burning or striving to save and entire properties being destroyed are still alive in our memory. The surviving residents of these regions are still waiting for help. They are still awaiting State assistance to the needs of their care, but also to their financial support. Our contribution here must be immediate, rapid and effective, because the need for our fellow citizens does not wait. This need is imperative and present. We must therefore act quickly not only to support the regions affected, but also to lay the foundations for the redevelopment of the region. Today, with this draft law, we are called upon to ratify this act of legislation, as provided for in the Constitution, and to adopt the necessary measures to restore and regenerate the burnt land, but also to support and relieve its firefighting inhabitants, so that until the second black anniversary of the murderous fires there is nothing to remind us of the present image. In this direction, we initiated by the Act of Legislation of 24 July 2019 entitled ‘After measures to address immediate risks and needs in the regions of the Eastern Attica affected by the fires of 23 and 24 July 2018’. This act responded to the extremely urgent need to rapidly remove from the fire waste, waste and, in general, hazardous materials which threatened the lives of the inhabitants, as well as the residential and natural environment. With a full picture of the situation, taking action on people's health, protecting the environment, and avoiding such tragic situations for the future, there was no further postponement. In particular, the first article of the draft law regulates the immediate removal of waste, waste and all dangerous materials from the fire-fighting areas, which, according to the findings of the competent bodies and services, as indicated in Protocol No 47601/23-7-2019 of the Head of the Fire Corps, are dangerous to the health of the citizens, but also to the potential of a future natural disaster. In order to prevent and address this immediate risk, to remove such materials and to take similar measures to protect the health of citizens and safeguard the environment may be implemented by a decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Similar actions, in particular studies, projects, services, equipment, may be undertaken by natural or legal persons at own costs and without a public burden, following the approval of the Finance and Infrastructure and Transport Ministers. At this point, I would like to remind you that very recently, within less than one month and without imposing the Greek State, nor with one euro, the plot in Matti was cleared, with more than twenty-five thousand tonnes of fuel, burnt trees and branches being a 'fuel bomb', as was well described by the Prime Minister. Among the survivors injured, only the heavy burners amount to the number of fifty eight. Our concern for those affected by the murderous fire of July 2018 is not limited to the care of the land and the environment. We are taking important initiatives to provide substantial and real assistance to our fellow citizens. Economic and material support measures are therefore being promoted, as well as medical care. Therefore, a decision to be issued by the Minister of Health will immediately be drawn up within two months of “Medical Victims of the Forest Fires of 23 and 24 July 2018”. After categorisation, according to the needs of each individual, all medicines, preparations, coats and special clothing will be administered, but all the costs of which will be covered by the EEA. The next measure that bears witness to our true support is the suspension by 30 July 2020 of any act of forced execution of mobile and immovable property to the detriment of natural or legal persons temporarily or permanently in an unforeseen state of emergency due to the murderous fires. In addition, under terms and conditions laid down by a decision of the Ministry of Finance and Infrastructure and Transport, compensation is granted for the restoration of space and legal fence to the owners of real estate. It is an additional move to include compensation for space environments and legitimately existing fences, and if there is no infrastructure, i.e. the plot is inconsistent or in the event of construction, but has not been damaged. These allowances will be borne by the Special Firear Relief Account of 23 and 24 July 2018. The same account shall be charged to housing subscriptions for repair and restoration of damage to buildings by the murderous fires for which the deadline for applying is extended until 10 August 2020. With the present attempt, not only the fundamental renewal of the burnt land, but also the provision of a healthy and safe natural and settlement environment to its inhabitants, with the resolution of the relevant urban problems for decades. This is why the Technical Chamber of Greece is entrusted with drawing up a model special spatial plan for the whole region of eastern Attica. Here I would like to say that this special spatial plan will indeed be a pilot move, because it includes all the sins and delays over the past. It has means of spatial planning, as well as issues relating to forest maps, ferry settlements within forests and forest areas, city plans, extensions to off-plan areas, agialou lines, beach lines, implementation operations. He has everything on the ground for many decades we haven't done. The pilot implementation of such a special project on the grounds of disaster and national tragedy will be a very useful tool not alone in how, but also in the timing of the completion of such a plan, when such needs exist following such results. The Minister for the Environment and Energy is authorised to sign a contract with the Technical Chamber of Greece by way of derogation from any other provision relating to a procurement procedure or to a jurisdiction. It is also planned that the TEI may be awarded by way of derogation from the legislation governing the procurement procedure for a procurement service project due to the exceptional need for speed that we all understand. Innovative regulation also constitutes the Government's choice to establish a different model of decentralised management of this situation, which is why it is established under the supervision of the Ministry of Interior by a new special body called Matti Again, a non-profit-making company operating under the rules of the private economy, but in the public interest. The mission of this company is to promote actions to rehabilitate affected areas and improve the lives of residents. However, we trust the inhabitants to indicate exactly what they need, which means change from the bottom to the top, because they are the ones who know better than all of us, after the events that have taken place. For this reason, the board of directors of the company, as will be mentioned by the relevant Minister, will consist of 13 members, of which five will be of similar social and cultural action or of expertise on local issues. The main resource of the company will be the above special account for the help of the firefighters. Indicative of our aim of rapid and effective intervention in these areas is the definition of the duration of the company on an annual basis or until the end of its purpose, with provision for an extension once again for an equal period of time. We know that it is a difficult bet to draw up all the things I mentioned before and especially the special spatial plan, for which we have had many years to do so. It is a bet that we need to win because, as I said, the 'current' needs and problems are great. Furthermore, for reasons of speed, efficiency and flexibility of actions, the company will be exempted from the provisions of Law 4412/2016, No 4270/2014 and No 4072/2012 as well as from the prudential control of the Court of Auditors. It will be exempted from any public, municipal, Community or for the benefit of a third party directly or indirectly, with the exception of value added tax and will generally enjoy all procedural and other public privileges and imperfections. In accordance with the statutes of the company set out in this draft law, it will have the power to delegate studies or projects to receive services, as well as to recommend and assign the relevant bodies, in order to avoid a direct or indirect risk to the health, safety of the residents or the environment of the affected areas and to achieve the restoration and recovery of those areas. Study, recording and highlighting of the residential, environmental and social impacts in the area since the fire in 2018, as well as proposals for addressing them, evaluation of existing needs, submission of proposals and recommendations to the competent authorities and services for risk management and the implementation of actions to restore and renovate those areas, which are addressed by the relevant public bodies for immediate implementation and cooperation with competent bodies in order to facilitate the implementation of the proposed projects and actions, inform citizens and competent bodies about the existing problems of the affected areas and their permanent or non-residents. This Legislation gives priority to the immediate restoration and protection of the environment in the general region and its residents, as an indication, until 30 October 2019. It is intended to complete the procurement procedure for works and services related, firstly, by removing from the land or plots of building materials containing asbestos, demolition of buildings deemed demolished by an autopsy protocol of a dangerously prepared building, a re-control report or an autopsy report of a three-member committee of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, thirdly, the temporary restoration of road infrastructure and the execution of escorts to the protection, safety and water supply works. There's more, but because of time I'm getting past. We have also mentioned them in the committee responsible. The completion of these projects shall be demarcated by 30-6-2020 at the latest. This bill implements the government's commitment to immediate, rapid and effective restoration and renewal of the burnt areas, as well as to substantial support and care for those affected by last year's murderous fires. The EUR 31 million, which has been untapped for more than a year, is now available to meet the needs of all suffering victims. The state is next to the affected citizen and now is the time to prove it in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to the committee - which, for legislative acts, is not a normal phenomenon - all representatives through institutional bodies and also representatives from associations in the regions affected. In addition to the eastern Attica it was also for the regions of Kineta and Saints Theodoros. It was important and useful reports and comments and will certainly be taken into account by the government. As far as Kinetta and Saints Theodores are concerned, there will be continuity to see how we can stand sick there as required by the state's side. Ladies and gentlemen, the national tragedy in Eye must be a lesson for all of us. We must immediately remove the causes that led to the destruction and loss of so many souls. We owe it to those who have been lost and those who are struggling to stand up again. This bet is the responsibility of all of us and we must all win it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u6	SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Spirtzis, has been caught in the movement of Queen Wisdom. He's on his way. That's why we're going with the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. George Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately, my obligations - accompanying the President of the Movement of Change in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, where we tabled a proposal for the idea - to set as a goal the renewal of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki to become the first climate-neutral exhibition, with zero pollutants, i.e. I hope you will adopt it and support it - have not allowed me to be at the meetings on Monday with the bodies, but the minutes and the information he had from my colleague, Mr Poula, were particularly enlightening and are coming to confirm the concerns that I had developed in the first session of the committee. What was said on Monday in committee, mainly concerning the operation of this company for the exceptional procedures to be followed, is drawn up with the labelling I had made for alertness on the part of Ministries and full transparency at all stages of the company's operation. We already have the negative experience of the Molyviat fund, which is why we must be very careful. I would like to stress from the outset, as we have mentioned in the committee, that we are positive in this draft law. Despite the very ambitious programming and the tight timetables envisaged, we will be voting in favour of the bill. This does not mean that we should not point to the possible traps in front of us and ask for improvements, as you have already done, and also to criticise the communication opportunism you are choosing. The memory of more than a hundred dead don't pick up such games. That is why we, in the Change Movement, find us opposing, all easy populism, both on the part of SYRIZA in this matter, but also every communication propaganda from your side. The oligopoly and the bad planning of the previous SYRIZA government is for granted and it seemed, not only during the evolution of the disaster in Matti, but also a year later. The question now is not to repeat mistakes and omissions, to have a real new model settlement and to quickly restore life and hope to the natural and human capital of the region. I wish that the one-year schedule for 2020 would be respected, as set out. I wish the Technical Chamber would hand over the spatial plan for the entire area in time and not just stay in communication for the first few days with the cleaning of the land and the visit of the Prime Minister. The need for a substance is far greater than the need for communication in this respect and the local people understand it better than anyone else. So to the extent that the measures of the bill and of the act of legislation are in agreement with the people of the region, we have no reason to be negative. However, similar measures and provisions, Mr Minister, must also be taken for other regions which have experienced the same disasters. The same design is necessary in areas such as West Attica, Kineta, Saint Theodores or Halkidiki. You said in committee that you would also take decisions on these regions, and that is why we want you to become more specific. On the other hand, the state and you, Minister, should be ready to tell us and present us alternative scenarios if you eventually do not walk the shape of the company "Mati Again" according to the timetables and the regulation you have chosen. I say this because we are dealing with a Gordian link here, and we should all recognise the difficulties of the project. Already, as I said in committee, the Secretary-General for Planning of the Ministry of Energy presented nine difficulties facing the new East Attica spatial planning, at a conference held by the CEDEFOP and the Municipality of Rafina - Pikermio. These problems existed in the region and contributed to the development of the destructive phenomenon in Matti. Eye condensates the maliciousness that exists, unfortunately, in many parts of our country. Accredited and chronic problems revealing pathogens, such as critical weaknesses of accessibility, insufficient traffic network, lack of shared spaces, arbitrary catastrophe, arbitrary construction in streams and forests, lack of urban planning and control. These serious problems come to be added two more extremely precarious factors: the first is the accelerating negative effects of climate change, which lead us to a climate crisis - that is, of course, that more and more often, perhaps every year, we will be faced with greater challenges and more acute weather phenomena - and the second is the lack of coordination and planning that characterises us as a whole in our action. In particular, this second factor was the main conclusion of the Goldammer Commission's report on the causes of the murderous fire in Matti. How much of what this report describes is taking into account? You remember this independent committee on the analysis of the causes and the prospect of managing future forest and countryside fires in Greece, which we discussed in a few months ago in the Committee on the Environment. The overlapping of irresponsibility was the substance of the Commission's findings. This cover of irresponsibles and bad coordination cost us lives, property, forest and animal wealth. So the intentions, which we recognise are in the right direction, are important, but it is important to implement a holistic plan that clears up responsibilities and responsibilities. And in this clear-cut clean-up, there might be problems in practice. I insist that the main question here is the substance and be applied. So it must be whatever plan you bring to discuss here. And if it is found that it does not work, that it does not apply in practice, you need to change it immediately. If you find that the plan does not come out in a year, what exactly are we going to do? Are we coming back for an extension? And why did we make a one-year choice and did we not say 'how much time does it take and in so much time will we have these results'? I repeat - I do not want to be negative - I wish to make everything you are planning and a model of proper housing development for all of Greece, but I see difficulties and you should have the reflexes required to make any adjustments immediately so that we do not come back to a year now and legislate on extensions of a company that has not done the work as you planned. I now come to the essence of the operation of this company, as well as respecting the timetables, it is also important for the company 'Mati again' to be transparent so that there are no problems with financial management, co-responsibility, direct awards. Derogating from provisions in the operation of the company, it can solve problems, but it also creates huge distortions. As Mr Poulas rightly pointed out in committee, this civil non-profit company is set up under the provisions of the Civil Code, has a social character and is a legal entity governed by private law. In other words, this urban corporation comes to replace the public with the role that it should perform in the particular multi-sensitive area. And that creates the first side effects before well - well legislated. Topics and obstacles have already been identified, both by those who participated in the committee on Monday and by the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament. Such serious issues are the failure to involve a representative of the President of the Court of Auditors in the Board of Directors. the company, the issue of the pre-contractual audit of the commissions of this company, the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors. in a single number. The experience gained by setting up respective non-profit companies for the award and take-up of a public-interest project and implementing public-interest actions does not inspire any reassurance. Also, the fact that the duration of the company is set annually is something that I suspect will concern us in the future if it is not all in the best interests. So, knowing all of us, the rates of operation and coordination of the various public bodies, but also the volume of work, I think that the time allowed and a year of extension is still extremely ambitious and difficult to follow. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out again that what we are asking for is the commitment from the Minister. The impression is that in one, two years' time we will be finished, but if the whole design is beyond good intentions, it is not realistic, I think you should immediately assume the responsibility to implement it. So I urge you to make a commitment now that, in a year's time, you will come to the House with an account of the work of this company, so that we do not put the situation in place and not just remain in good intentions and fine words. Finally, it is important for us to have a full account not only of the homes and infrastructure that will be restored or of the acres to be resurrected, but also of the firefighting and burners that have received all kinds of support and protection of the state. Not even a firefighter who is entitled to this care should remain helpless. It is good to prepare and introduce as soon as possible organised and more scientifically, not through legislative acts, local plans to address and adapt the climate change of the many, unfortunately and vulnerable regions of the country, so that we never live Eye again. We are therefore positive about the ratification of the legislative act and we are voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u8	The list of speakers is closed and I give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Christos Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in turn, to thank the rapporteurs of the parties, in particular Mr Tagaras, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, for the debate that has taken place. After a year and a few days of the national tragedy that we lived in Matti there was a substantial discussion. A debate we were not used to in the past time, which was a communication type of management of the issue, at least from New Democracy. We are feeling too many matters right about what we have swept through. Because when we said that, apart from dealing with the moment from the services and whatever responsibilities exist, there is a very important issue and responsibilities for the spatial chaos of the region, for what exists in the region, we are swept through. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Economou, said exactly this to committee yesterday: How not to burn people in such areas when the passages or they do not exist or are some inch and it does not fit to go through a car or a human being. We are observing two different lines in New Democracy, the people who have actually seen reality, what is happening and how we all have to deal with these problems together, and some of its Members who have stayed on the line yesterday and listened to them that they did not spend one day, that there are no responsibilities for the region. So we're going to show them up. We therefore believe that the legislative act was made for communication reasons on the 'black anniversary', because in order to clear the plot for the fourth time the institutional framework for the acceptance of donations existed. It's never happened before. This is not the first time that it has happened both in the region and in the others. However, there were other forecasts and other forecasts, as well as we had at the outset, that we should support changes so that it would be common attitudes and attitudes in such areas and in whatever positive measures it is envisaged or could be possible for the citizen, to submit our experiences from what we tried there for a year, and it was not very little, to highlight the work, but in particular the institutional changes that have taken place in the previous period, because this is the first time that such institutional changes have been made. We lived - you know - corresponding disasters a few years ago in the fire of Elijah. In the country there is nothing left about how we face the next disaster. I would like, Minister, on the occasion of tabling a memorandum in the Minutes and in order to make use of it - and I hope that you do not need it - but also for my fellow Members and Greek people to know what has been done about this fire. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] But let's get them one by one. There were a total of 170,000 000 euros for the damages, rehabilitations and all the rest that had to be done in the region. Part of them is a special account. I believe that it is handy what we are doing, that we give all 31,000 euros of the special account to the East Attica alone, because the special account also works for the West, which is why any legislation that has been foreseen was for both regions. It was about the fires in both western and eastern Attica that took place on the same day. I count about seventeen legislation, institutional changes and regulations over the year. What's this? These are two categories. One category is to be next to every citizen, to the problem he has, because he has a house that has not been declared, was to his parents, to have not transferred his property, to the problems that are created because we have no horizontal property - and we will see them there - so that he can take what he is entitled to as firefighting for one - one, even the great problems of the region and the procedures that were not in the institutional context. Let's make a little mention of what happened and what happened. Exceptional one-off aid was granted to the pistols within one week. The oldest parliamentarians will remember he was running the Greek state. There is no sign of a political peak, any government that was when the fire took place in Elijah might have done something like that. The question is, as a state, how we dealt with it. Then the hairs were given, and then the Greek State ran to find out who had taken them without being entitled to them from other regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u10	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u11	I'm sorry, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u12	It's not like that at all, I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u13	Unfortunately, it is. Say it, Mr. Russopoule, with great pleasure, but in four days there were not a few thousand self-consciousnesses from engineers in Elias. Here, they were recorded with great precision, they came out of control sheets and on this activity of fellow engineers, we were able to have no other kind of distortions or other kind of old-fashioned logic. The asbestos products were removed and contracts were concluded to complete, which until now were burdened by those who had placed them, the owners, that is, the affected. This does not exist under any legislation that it is burdened and compensated by the Greek State. The logging was taken over and within the owners because in public spaces it was the municipalities that could not respond. For the first time, the demolition permits, which would not even come out of the permits to demolition from the citizens, came out in the way the building offices of the municipalities operated in the area and the way the office operates. It became a single geo-informatics background in order to have the data and then to be able to work. That's what happened in a few months. The deep line of the poppa stream was defined in the area where a few decades have not even been delimited and dozens of houses, not to say hundreds, are in the stream. The road axes were set in the area before it became the special peasant so that permits could be made, otherwise we would have the citizens build their homes and then break them down to build the roads when the town plan was made. Special arrangements were made to allow repair buildings to be classified as "incompetent" or to be classified as "red" in order to keep distances and to be able to build roads. Obviously, the special peasant has proceeded, which is why we also have the approval of the competent body. Procedures have been simplified, many fellow engineers have responded to these jobs, so because I hear a communication type another logic that 'What happened this year?', 'good that the WPA has passed to deal with this whole thing'. We have heard and had a lot of discussion about the burners that had been planned, and it needs to be extended for the next two years, and Andreas Xanthos will say that, and we can give you one - one - of the dates that have been taken, is within the calculation table. As we hear one criticism, eight hundred sixty-two applications were made, he says, for permits and only four hundred were approved. How can the others be adopted when there are institutional issues in the region: where are forests? Where's the stream boundary? Where? Let's go see - Mr. Tagaras said it too, but he said it a little stylishly - what is going on in this area. There are areas in this area that have been given to cooperatives either from the monks of the region with the tolerance and support of the then Ministry of Agriculture and then after having exercised an old-fashioned formula of logic, which on it has been built political careers for decades, light has been given, water, telephone in the past decades and we have reached the deadlock of today in the unregulated construction, in the town chaos. This whole situation has a name. They are named after those who have conducted such policies not only in eastern Attica, throughout Greece, but the eastern Attica is the area that has been exhausted. Nor will we enter into temptation or populism, if you like, in Parliament, mention the names of party officials who conducted these policies. But it is a fact. And I think that the areas that have exercised these policies should, in fact, have been a little more careful in the past time and today in their expressions, a little more careful in how we deal with things. We have also heard the inhabitants, we have heard the institutions. The problems they have are the ones we are discussing now. They're not the ones that are in the MDG. In other words, it is not a problem for the inhabitants if the special villages will quickly become, as you have seen, unfortunately, Mr Minister, and that shows the mentality that has prevailed in the region. Because some do not want to become a special peasant, they do not want the area to enter the town plan, others because of interests, others because of mentality, others because of discipline, in this area. That's why I'm very happy that Mr. Economou made it clear yesterday. In addition, with regard to MDG, although we do not agree with the process, we have raised the problems and we would expect the Minister to stand up and say the changes it brings to its ratification, to give us the opportunity, at least, to support what we have to support. But from what you have seen from the operators' representatives, the other thing is the question, not the PPP. So let's go see them one by one. Is it positive that he cleared the plot in Matty for the fourth time and donated? It's positive! That's positive! Is it a good thing that the asbestos conventions that exist do not go any further than the residents have told us? We will be told by the Ministry responsible for the performance of contracts because it has not progressed or is not progressing at this time - if it is true - the collection of asbestos. Is it good that all the demolition permits have been released from the previous government? It's positive! Is it a good thing that Mr Karamanlis signed six conventions to make all the demolitions and who found the competitions ready from us, legally, legally, in accordance with No 4412? It is very positive and shows the continuity of the state! Is it positive that we hear all the rest here that nothing has happened? Well, it's not good, Mr. Minister and fellow Members. And it is not good, especially after your position in committee, that there is no need for an opinion from the EFSA and that procedures and transparency are ensured due to the participation of a member of the Court of Auditors. All this in the committee debate has been overturned. I would also like to inform you that while the Technical Chamber of Commerce is a very heavy body on these issues, we believed that the way you put it in the PPP is not going to become a special peasant, but the process will stick. Why could EFSA and the NPV have dealt with some articles of L.4412, which can be used by someone or what procedures to circumvent, but we cannot bypass the fact that an operator does not have a technical service. This thing can't be done! He's been hit by the Technical Chamber before, so he even had a competition. And then he went to the Court of Auditors and the competition fell! That's what happened in the previous term. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, we continue to stand by until the Ministry is placed on critical issues relating to the region's spatial planning, transparency. Let it not be in the letter of L.4412, but it must be borne in mind, as the opinion of EFSA says, that certain procedures must be fulfilled. Because what you are trying to do - and we are saying well - is not to do fast. With what you're suggesting, you want us to stick it all together. No, in a year, we won't have a special spatial plan. So, do you think that in a body like the Technical Chamber, with thousands of members, with controversy, with all the rest, there will be no one to appeal against a process that is lame? The limit for the studies is 120,000. Yesterday the President of the TEI said that a budget of 1,000 000 will implement it with 500,000. I believe him and trust George Stasinus in such matters. Will it be his fault if they catch all two appeals, or do you believe that there are no interests to appeal against and to the procedure so that nothing can happen? Of course the same applies to the company. We are taking the responsibility of the state, of the state, of the representatives of five local organizations for the relocation of the region. They said he wants to do this body, and he's doing another thing. In other words, it implements state functions, functions of state and local government. And now people are invited to do commissions on studies, projects and work. And all of this when they have zero employees, without any assurance, without the representative of the Court of Auditors in particular on their board of directors - who cannot be involved by the Constitution - and without any know-how in the tenders. I believe that the Government will respond to the changes we are proposing, take into account the comments and the President of the Court of Auditors' comments on pre-contractual control and on what the Government can and can legislate on such cases. We will be on the side of the government as far as the target is concerned, because that is what we have done. We are next to the citizens and we are together to upgrade the area. But this in a normal country - as you want to say - in a European country, in a country that respects - because you have been accusing us for so many years of this - of the independent authorities, the regulators and all the rest of it, it must in fact be observed, Minister. And you with what you brought us to the House today, none of this is being observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Spirtzi, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u15	I'm closed, Mr. President. We reserve until the Minister talks about the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u16	You'll be asking when the time comes. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u17	The draft law of the Government may appear to be a formal procedure because it ratifys in its first article an act of legislation adopted about two months ago. However, it also expresses the legislative act which ratifys, and also the other provisions added to, the draft law, a more comprehensive political concept, philosophy and strategy, in our view wrongly, on how to deal with the serious problems caused by the tragic fire in Matti. These are problems that remain after more than a year with the responsibility of the previous SYRIZA government, of course. These are problems, however, which we very much fear will remain responsible now for the new Government of New Democracy. And when we talk about solving problems in the region, things are not abstract. They are very specific and they have been formulated and the bodies that came to the committee. We are talking about the compensation that people should receive at 100%, which they have not received, and it seems that they are not going to receive. We're talking about repairs and repairs to houses that haven't moved on. We are talking about the problem that has arisen with forests, which is not solved. We are talking about the depollution of the area, especially from asbestos, which has been covered for over a year, that it does not exist. We are talking about the satisfaction of other demands made by the actors in the region - not for years now - such as the creation of a public hospital in East Attica and the proper functioning of other health systems. And those who live in this area know what it means in 2019 in Attica to force residents to move many kilometres without public transport in order to go to the hospitals in the centre. Of course, we are talking about the design and implementation of the necessary projects and infrastructure. We are talking about a modern city plan that meets the real needs of the people and not about various other interests that are being held in both Matti and the wider region. One comment on the city plan, because there has been a lot of discussion about the city plan. There was a debate yesterday in committee. The planning of the Eye, the urban planning conditions of the Eye, was indeed one of the key factors of the disaster. But he wasn't the only one. There were other critical factors. And the right thing to do is to create a town plan that solves the spatial and urban problems of the past, and so right is that the problems that the region had are used as a convenient alibi to hide the nakedness that exists in other areas, such as forest fires, fire protection, prevention, planning and civil protection. All these problems have been shaped for years by the responsibility of all governments. Thus, the ball is also thrown to the inhabitants who, of course, have been pushed into a particular practice. But these people have lived in this area for years, they pay, they have had homes. To remind you that New Bujas, who was also burned, had a city plan, but it was burned, because there were exactly all the other factors that they are not talking about. In the light of the above, we believe that the act of legislation, which was advertised by the government and in a heavy way, does not provide a solution and answers to these specific problems. The only thing that the act does, and the other provisions, is on the one hand, to deal with some elementary, self-evident issues, perhaps even below the elementary ones, such as cleaning the known plot, such as the issue of burners, some extensions. On the other hand - and most importantly in our view - the draft law moves the resolution of serious issues from the responsibility of the State and the central administration to the Technical Chamber, in terms of the specific spatial plan, or to a controversial non-profit-making, controversial urban company, both in terms of the purposes, the operating method and the powers that this company will have. The reason the government invoked these arrangements was the need to speed up procedures for solving the problems. However, this question also concerns Matti, but it is a more general question. This is why we discussed the last committee: The delays that exist over time and the shortcomings in dealing with such disasters, in preventing such disasters, in resolving critical problems, such as having cities with modern plans, with anti-milling projects, are safe for those who are there, with modern infrastructures, all of which is a procedural, technical issue, is something that we need to live with? And if that is the case, how does it explain the fact that when it comes to other projects, major projects, there is both speed and efficiency of the state, and when it comes to projects and infrastructures that the people need to always appear there, but always all the delays and all the obstacles? How, for example, can the operations of the administration come out in Greek or Skouria? In order not to remember other earlier projects such as Attica, for example, where a major project was designed, spaced, expropriated and executed in record time and, at the same time, in another case, twenty years after the 1999 earthquake, there have been no minimum checks of earthquake capacity in public buildings and public utilities. And after the last earthquake of July there are today, when the schools start, buildings unsuitable. Here, then, are the two standards of this policy that all governments have served. When it comes to emblematic investment, it is the state that is very fast and effective when it comes to projects and infrastructure relating to people's needs, there is magically always delays, shortcomings and obstacles. In our view, the speed in resolving the problems of people - and now in the region is not and was never a narrow procedural or technical issue. It is a political matter, it is a matter of political will and it is a matter of ensuring both the necessary funding and the funds to deal with these very problems. This political will did not exist even by the previous SYRIZA government, because the resolution of these problems is always sacrificed to the altar of surpluses and to the altar of the priorities that capital needs for projects, infrastructures, spatial planning and so on. What does the government bring today with this draft law? Firstly, it comes to ratify an act of legislation adopted on the days of completion of one year of the disaster, mainly for reasons of communication. For example, you spoke of cleaning the known plot on the Marathon Avenue from the burnt branches, which is true that this cleansing had to be done because, indeed, there was a very great risk. Did it require an act of legislation on this? You didn't have to. This could also be done by means of administration. The legislative act came to be cleaned up by certain private companies and to transfer branches to a particular private company. What's the conclusion? That even for the self-evident, such as the cleaning of a plot, the state and the governments are left with the courtesy of donors. This logic has also been cultivated by the previous government, and in fact Mr Spirtz has said before - down - donations, one another and the change. The second article of the Act of Legislative content, which concerned Mati again, was simply an announcement, because in fact the government is now coming with the other provisions of the draft law to define the operating methods and responsibilities of that company. For example, the act of legislative content in Article 2 spoke of a company which has mainly an advisory role, and now the draft law also talks about executive powers of that company and, indeed, very important executive powers by way of derogation and other provisions. Therefore, the two of the three articles of the Act of Legislative content were essentially unrealistic and went in to set up this communication game and the only article which had a practical value, in our opinion negative, is Article 3 which actually passes to the Technical Chamber of Commerce - which is a legal person governed by public law, but which is a professional body - the responsibility of the State and the Ministry responsible for drawing up a specific spatial plan and, by way of derogation from the provisions relating to awards, contracts, commissions and so on, that is to say, a non-transparent status. With regard to the other provisions of the draft law which are new and were not included in the legislative act, we should firstly state that we agree with the regulations on burners and extensions, as well as with the environmental regulation with the following observations: in the case of burners it should be explicitly provided that the benefits to them are exclusively free of charge and that it should be clear how to cover expenditure, because the report of the General Accountancy Office is'seals'. However, the most important with regard to burners, which naturally does not exist in the draft law, is that many of these people cannot work and those who applied for a disability pension almost all were rejected and given a disability rate of less than 67% on the basis of these unacceptable protocols established by previous governments. This is the big problem that also exists with burners. We also agree with the extensions given for the suspension of enforcement measures and for the submission of applications. We believe, in fact, that these extensions must also be greater, especially for enforcement measures, because it makes sense that the consequences for the victims of this great disaster are not addressed or disappeared in one or two years' time. And it is tragic to think that if people after one or two or three years finally manage to uproot and build a house, they will be faced with forced execution measures, auctions, seizures and go by saying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as applications for repair and housing assistance are concerned, we also agree with the extensions. But here too, the serious problems that exist are not tackled. What are these? The repair permits issued so far are three hundred and fifty-four. As far as reconstruction permits are concerned, not one of the local towns has been issued as a result of delays. On demolition, nearly four hundred seventy have already been issued. However, demolition is static, as with the exception of sixty ‘voluntary’ construction companies, and even forty of the owners themselves, at their own expense, the remaining demolitions are pending the signing of the contracts. And demolitions are a prerequisite for moving forward on a number of other issues. A special problem that has been mentioned many times has to do with damage homes located in forest areas. For housing assistance and funding - based on the figures of July 2019 - a hundred forty-six certifications have been issued. But here is the question: to start disbursements, they must be demolished and the licence must come out, which is currently frozen. What is provided for in the draft law on these matters? It is foreseen that the assignment and execution of part of the required projects and infrastructure - which must be done, as much more needs to be done, is entrusted to an urban company and at costs which will only be borne by the special firearms relief account. The first issue, then, is about this special account. We are waiting for an answer, Minister. You promised us that from the first meeting on the resources available in this account. This is because, for the discharge of HPAI wounded for five years announced by the current government - the discharge of HPAI affected - she had said that money would be made available from the special relief account. Too bad, 'cause that account had a different target. It was aimed at restoring the damage, and it was not intended to give money to cover the HICP discharge. So this is a basic question: have money been or will be made available from the Special Assistance Account on the subject of the ENPI? And how many more are available resources on this special account? The second issue concerns the company itself. We have said so, we would have no objection to setting up an agency involving representatives of the local administration, the local people, the local authorities responsible for making proposals, monitoring and so on. But this is another issue, and it is another matter of setting up a company with wide executive powers, bypassing procedures, where the State's responsibility will actually be postponed. You call this decentralised management, we call it diffusion and transfer of responsibility. That is what you are seeking, because, in fact, the state will henceforth hide behind the responsibility of this company. You do not therefore want to see residents and institutions involved in solving the problems. You want to put them forward in order to cover the responsibilities of the government and the state. What concerns us even more is what was said today by the majority rapporteur that here we are talking about a pilot project and with the intention that this project should be generalised and implemented in other similar cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Gioka, look across the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. In other words, from now on, any possible disasters - which may not exist! - to be treated in this way? So the spatial plans will be commissioned to the Technical Chamber and to repair damage, to regenerate a region will be carried out through a relevant urban company? We believe that this policy is too dangerous. For all these reasons, Mr President, we do not agree with the principle of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u20	As I had said before, I will cut off the flow of speakers to give the Minister for Justice, Mr Chiara, five minutes, to present his amendment so that the speakers will also have it in mind and not to hold him here for long. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in plenary session precisely to justify the only amendment tabled in the specific ratification of the act of legislation, which, in itself - I imagine, will be understood - is necessary and that is why there is an amendment to this bill. The amendment concerns the suspension of compulsory mediation, since, as you know, the previous government had been legislated as a day of implementation of the compulsory mediation on 16 September. It is an issue that obviously fits a lot of discussion. However, what I can tell you is that in these few days of the new government and my commitment to these tasks a new bill has been completed, which will be put before the National Representation in normal procedures rather than in type of amendment or type of urgency. I want your understanding of this. That is why the amendment calls for a reasonable suspension of the application of this measure, so that by 30 November at the latest - I personally believe it will be much earlier - we have a bill that I hope will be supported by all the wings of the Greek Parliament. On the basis of this opportunity, I would like to say that we must at some point take over the part of our responsibility. There are issues relating to the very need for Greek society and for Greek citizens and, of course, all the parties involved, and not the political parties, must at least be consulted on key issues relating to the interests of society and the interests of Greek citizens. I say this because we must realise that the great delays in the time of justice are a huge issue, which must at some point be addressed with responsibility, but also with the overall understanding of all the parties involved. That is why I believe that in the next and next few years, through the legislative initiative which will soon - I imagine - go up to consultation, but which will also take account of all the colleagues of the National Representation, we will be able to conclude another legislative initiative which concerns a long delay almost a decade for the Greek legal system, so that we have also taken the necessary step towards an alternative option that exists, in order to reduce to a very large extent the time of judiciary. Now, of course, with regard to the formality, I should like to tell you that in fact the entry into force of Article 182 of Law 4512/2018, which relates to the compulsory subjection to the mediation process, is suspended until 30 November 2019, since the period until 16 September 2019 is insufficient to incorporate the necessary changes with regard to the compulsory differences. Such suspension shall be necessary in order to complete the preparation of an integrated legislative framework for mediation, taking into account the decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay. With these thoughts, I ask you at least on an issue that I imagine is more or less in the knowledge and understanding of all my fellow Members to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Chiara, please stay a while. I will now give the floor to put forward legislative improvements on behalf of Mr Hatzidakis, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Economou. Then I will ask all the parliamentary representatives if they want to ask a precise question about Mr Chiara's amendment before leaving. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform Parliament that, following the proceedings in the Committee on Trade, at the hearing of bodies, Members' comments, etc., we will bring some legislative improvements that take into account these comments and discussions. There are four improvements points. The first point has two legs. On the one hand, it clarifies that there is no question of prudential control by the Court of Auditors, because he has already been abolished. In any case, it's not a matter of law. The second point concerns the opinion of EFSA in case derogations from public procurement law are provided for. Typically, EASA must in fact be asked in advance. In practice, however, it has no competence in the case of derogations due to force majeure. It was therefore essentially a bureaucratic process. The question had to be sent to EASY, and EASESY had to answer that we ‘are not competent’. That may have taken a month for no reason. So what we are doing is abolishing this bureaucratic process. In other words, ESDC does not have competence in cases of derogations as a result of force majeure. The second point of the improvements concerns the removal from the IMI Board of the representative of the Court of Auditors. It's incompatible. Even an official of the Court of Auditors cannot participate in the boards of directors of companies, which are subsequently audited by the Court of Auditors. So there's this incompatibility. That's why it's removed. This was also noted by several participants in the debate. The third point specializes the previous one. It is a purely legal wording, which concerns the previous point I mentioned. The fourth point relates to the Chamber of Technical Chambers and the award of studies for the special spatial plan of the Eye. Two improvements are made here. One improvement adds that the exceptional provisions of Union legislation, which provide for such derogations that are necessary due to force majeure, are also taken into account. We add this to make it clear what we mean. For what is not covered by this condition, Union law will obviously be followed. The fifth and final improvement point is that the self-evident provision is in fact made that the contracts awarded by the Technical Chamber may also be borne by the special account for the firemen. It does not mean that it will necessarily be from there, but it must be clear that this account can also finance the contracts, because the reason for having the special account is being fully promoted by these contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u25	Just a minute, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u26	I would like to ask some clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u27	You know that's not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Don't be in a hurry. Others precede. First of all, Mr Chiara's amendment is a step backwards. From Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis isn't here. Does the rapporteur want to ask Mr Chiara something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I am the parliamentary representative for today, but there is currently no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u29	So I would like a piece of paper from your secretariat to come because we here in our papers have what Mr Gregoriadis is. For typical reasons. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u30	I didn't know. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Let's go to the Greek solution. Mr. Heta, would you like to ask Mr. Chiara something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u32	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u33	We move on to the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u34	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u35	Neither do you. Let's go to the Change Movement. Mr. Catarini, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u36	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u37	You have the floor for one, one and a half minutes to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. You know, Minister, that we in the Change Movement have 'allergies' in the late amendments, particularly when they are not related to the bill under discussion. Of course, one could rightly say that the whole framework for the Eye has something to do with justice, because the relatives of the victims are asking for justice to be done for what happened to the Eye. However, since both your politeness and your sincereness and your public commitment that you will bring the substance of the legislative framework that you are being processed, in a normal procedure within the National Representation, I think that they are a guarantee that we accept your intention, so I would like to ask you - if I am interpreting what you are signing the amendment and your position - if you are oriented towards a full review of the existing framework for mediation, in a new and completely different political direction, or simply incorporating Decision 34/2018 of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u39	You will respond in total, Minister. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to say at the outset that we will support your amendment, but we would like to make two comments. First of all, we would expect it to have come before - there was a legislature all summer and with very extraordinary measures on the part of the government - as in five days the judiciary begins. Also, a series of intentions have leaked from the Ministry - we do not trial intentions, we of course expect to see the draft law - and a truce has been created both in the lawyers and in the legal world. The principle of mediation is a positive principle, but we believe, for our part, that it should be taken into account first of all not to be compulsory, after the decision of the Administrative Assembly of the Ice Bay, but to create an incentive, of course, the price is not such as to be forbidden and, of course, to see the necessary representation of lawyers. We shall, however, vote in favour of the amendment. We'll come back after seeing the legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u41	And we're closing up with Mr. Bukowo. You want to ask something? If you don't want to, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u42	Just say we agree. The provision for binding dates from the existing legal framework makes it necessary to extend and we are certainly also pleased by the Minister's commitment to bringing a new proposal for a law by the end of November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes to answer the two objections of Mr Katrin and Mrs Xinoyanakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u44	Thank you again, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to prejudge this House by saying some thoughts earlier, which concern a process that has indeed created a lot of tension and a lot of controversy. And I think - if I have to answer first to you as a Qualification - Xinoyannakopoulou, that you have the experience of the previous period and I imagine you have it very well. There have been two legislative initiatives which have resulted in suspension. So you know the difficulty of the project and of course you know very well and the debate that is taking place in order to find alternative ways of modernising the process in the field of justice. That is, I would say, an effort that is being made to change some data into a fixed reality that we know. That is why we must, together, understand the need for the moment, so that the Greek Parliament and therefore the Greek justice and therefore the Greek state can take some steps, or on the other hand stay in a politically sterile past, without seeing the substance and without seeing the real interest of the Greek citizen at the end of the day. So if you want me to tell you exactly what is going to happen - and here I answer you, Mr Katrin - we have tried to combine all the trends. A new mediation bill will actually come, of course, which is based on the previous legislative initiatives. I want to be absolutely honest. And of course, the majority of the same people who had worked in the past also participated in the formulation of today's bill. That's the reality. I am not of the opinion that it is possible to dismantle everything that has been preceded by a job and an effort on the part of the legislature when, I repeat, we are talking about an effort that concerns the whole of Greek society and, of course, about the development of our legal system. This is an assumption in which at least we all have to agree, if at least common sense is what brings us any thought and any initiative we take. From there on, to be clear to you, I will tell you that I could very easily bring an amendment to the urgency procedure, which exists, since the commitment of the previous government was 15 - 16 September calendar. However, I prefer that there should be a normal procedure in plenary session of the Greek Parliament, that all views should be heard, that we reach the best possible legislation. That is why this amendment comes in the way it is now. Of course, bear in mind that these days and because of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki there was no intense legislative activity, Mr President, you know that - and you need to understand that only for this reason comes as an amendment, Mr Katrinis. So that's the logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u45	Good. I think it was a complete answer. Before we move on to the next special speaker, you have the floor, Mr Spirtzi, not to place the trade union of the TEI - but to clarify with Mr Economou. Here, then, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u46	It is a five-year period that I have moved away from there, Mr President. Minister, what you said in your first remark is correct, but you do not specify the pre-contractual check that the President of the Court of Auditors has mentioned, which is very important. I mean, there's no way AMC can't even...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u47	You'll see it in Legislative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u48	We'll see her. The second point is for reasons of force majeure. However, in the report sent by EFSA, it has also been approved in cases relating to the specific fires. Let me report to you three. One is the removal of asbestos elements. It approved the rapid process with the public procurement law. The second was what I said about the Geographical Information System for the Eye Study. The third was for anti-corrosion - anti-milling works in the Municipality of Megares. So we are obliged by law, even for reasons of force majeure, emergency, and so on, to ask the U.S.S.S.A.A. and what does not fall under the other provision, let alone legality. I say this because we really want this effort to go ahead. Will it stick, because it will then go to the Court of Auditors to consider, for example, the study of the special peasant from the TEI and say ‘What are the reasons for force majeure for the special peasant?’ And she'll reject it. You know that very well. Otherwise, the municipalities would do it too. He would do it to Elias, too, to make a special peasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u49	But the decisions of the Court of Auditors...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u50	Oh, no. But these Court of Auditors decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Spirtzi, now you're setting up. That's what you can tell in your dentistry. I gave you the floor for a detailed question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u52	No, the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u53	Yeah, but I didn't hear any questions. I've heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u54	Good. The Minister understood the question. The question is whether this provision substantiates the special peasant and thus goes on for reasons of force majeure or whether the other studies or work to be carried out by the AMKE, through the framework and legislative improvements brought by the Government, cover the observations of EFSA and the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u55	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u57	The Minister will answer Mr Hatzidakis for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, I could speak then. I'm just gonna do it now, so I don't get any impressions. Mr Spirtzi, with reference to what you said, it will seem very strange to me if at the end of the day you do not vote in favour of this bill, for the following reasons: firstly, we take into account the observations which the Court of Auditors has made. Preventive control has been abolished, but pre-contractual control and repressive control remains here too. We have also accepted the remark of the President of the Court of Auditors so that the member of the Court of Auditors no longer participates in the committee. This is corrected by the legislative improvement. So the question of the Court of Auditors goes on. I guess we're all in agreement. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] I come to the subject of the Single Independent Authority for Public Procurement. You know that, because you handled it too. I handled it, too, as I had been a minister for two years. I have the public procurement law here. Article 2(2)dd, ‘Decisions of the contracting authorities relating to the application of the negotiated procedure for the award of public contracts in accordance with Article 26(2) and Articles 32 and 269,’ - in any case - ‘except in cases of force majeure shall be adopted after agreement of the authority’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u59	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u60	So - and I call on Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos' legal systems - since there is force majeure, the principle does not need to be consulted. That's what the law says. Read the law. What can we do now? My Greeks are on the same level as yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u61	Oh, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u62	That's all, Mr. Spirtzi! That's it! I say again that I will be very surprised if you do not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before all we want as Greek Solution to express our deep grief for the victims in Matti, our condolences to their relatives and our disgrace for the irreparable mistakes that have been made in the face of the murderous fire, also express our disgrace as citizens of the country for the apologies that were not said by the rulers at the time, since they were only interested in the communication management of the crisis and in the protection of their political image. Furthermore, in our first speech in committee, we have placed ourselves in Article 1 of the bill stressing, among other things, that the maintenance of the existing ground fire-fighting network is not mentioned anywhere. We noted that the fire hydrants, where they existed at the time, were not working because they had never been maintained. Finally, we have drawn attention to the fact that no reference is made to preventive protection measures with regard to its specific elements. We were also placed in Article 2 on the establishment of an urban non-profit company, which essentially replaces the state's institutional bodies. We have raised many objections, including in relation to its statutes, as well as to the ambiguities that exist. In our second speech, we have now stressed in committee that the EUR 38 million available for Mati again -31 million left - will not meet the needs. To substantiate this, we took the fires in Elias, where 215 million euros were raised with interest in the 'Molyviat' fund, while 97 million were spent, according to statements by Mr Stournaras, because the government at the time obviously did not do its job properly. The 118 million remaining were unfortunately driven to the Public Investment Programme in 2012 to finance related projects. A large part of them were given, according to the conclusion drawn in 2013 by the Special Permanent Committee on Environmental Protection, for roadworks across the Peloponnese, for anti-milling, bridges and so on, with many publications writing, saying that the "Molyviat" of the New Republic ended up becoming bulbs and streets. We have therefore stressed that this should not be repeated. Regarding the injustices in Elias, which must not happen again, according to the finding, the tragic Municipality of Sakharos - Figalia, which suffered the greatest human losses and damages, as well as the Municipality of Andritsina-Krestons have received little money, while their population decreased by 41.9% and 35.2% respectively. More generally, the population throughout the region abandoned it and became bourgeois. As the finding says, there were no actions to support the local economy that was affected, which should not happen again in Matti. Problem has also been identified in the coordination of the services of ministries, OTAs and regions, also of forestry services, roads, towns, etc., which is shown on page 124 of the finding. In some cases the roads had not been repaired or are not served by the CCEE due to small traffic, so that children cannot go to school in winter. There was, of course, a proposal to set up a single coordination body, but it has never been implemented. It refers to this law on the Eye as to how the State Secretary will coordinate it in the Prime Minister's office, but it does not describe how Article 34b. Finally, the extent of the needs and inefficiency in the case of Elijah is underlined by the fact that, apart from the sinful "Molyviat" of New Democracy, tens of millions of euros were allocated for reafforestation through the "Alexandros Baltazis" programme of the Ministry of Rural Development, with limited success, as the conclusion at least indicates. Further, why, really, did we choose a comparison with Elijah? Simplifiedly because the similarities are enough. In particular, apart from being a relatively similar major disaster, although with fewer human victims, Mr. Mitsotakis participated in the Special Standing Committee on Environmental Protection, while he was also in charge of autopsy in 2008. On page 133 of the findings, the following are mentioned in the measurements of the Agricultural University of Athens on burnt ground in the area. The difference between burnt and unburned, although side by side, reached 20.8 degrees Celsius, while the temperature on the burned area in particularly hot summer days reached 59.2 degrees Celsius in shade. You're referring to the Amalada area. If Mr Mitsotakis had read it - and we hope his Government will do so now, which seems to agree with the European Union in general with climate change, environmental protection, green development, with the closure of PPC's lignite plants, etc. - it would not support cementation projects such as the Greek or the transfer of Heraklion airport to Kastelli, nor would it authorize "ELDORADO GOLD" to Skouria, with the environmental disasters envisaged, thus winning the shares of EUR 1 billion in stock exchange value since May 23, 2019, when it appeared that the New Democracy would win the election celebrity. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At least, it would be inappropriate for those who express reasonable concerns about the environmental burden, as well as the change in the microwave of the regions. The second similarity relates to Mr. Hatzidakis, who was then the Minister of Development who co-signed in 2012 the liquidation of the "Mollyviatis Fund" and the transfer of his money to the Public Investment Program. So it remains to be seen whether Mr. Hatzidakis' eye will act on that basis. If nothing else, it would not be the only case of such a'reform'. We recall that Mr. Hatzidakis was Minister when OLYMPIAKI ceased to exist in 2009. First of all, she chose to distribute it because of her losses instead of exalting it to flights, technical bases and ground services, just as with PPC today on transmission networks, distribution network, customers, production. Then, after lack of interest by buyers for "OLYMPIAKI", as he triumphantly triumphs that it is with PPC today, Mr. Hadjidakis, deceiving it where and as it may be, the company was granted to the private sector by concise procedures. Thus, ‘AEGEAN’ was born, with a turnover of EUR 1,9 billion in 2018, with profits after tax of EUR 67,9 million and with fourteen million passengers, as shown on its website. With ELPE, which is extremely profitable, we do not think it will have such potential, despite the fact that it has changed its successful administration with the failed previous one, nor with the profitable DEPA, which Mr Hatzidakis also wants to sell, as if he had set the target of divestment of all of Greece's energy companies, which no country on the planet would do, let alone Greece, which has energy reserves and is a country of future energy pipelines. Continuing to Eye again, we said that the money available to the committee - the EUR 38 million - may sound a lot, but unfortunately it is not. Some of the damages, of course, will be covered by the State, such as compensation for the dead and the injured, the improvement of the road network, the construction of schools and others, but the cost is very high, and the following is, first, a hundred and a half dead, and an action has already been filed for a dead man claiming 1,5 million euros. For the allowances of Elijah - thirty-six deaths at that time - some EUR 150,000 per victim have been awarded, twenty-seven actions have been filed and the Greek State is late to pay for appeals. Shame on you! I'm filing it in the Minutes. Second, the wounded are a hundred forty-eight. Their needs are covered by the state, but no one knows what else they could claim. We must stress here that in New York, residents are still being compensated and rescued for their exposure to pollutants after the fall of the twin towers and their consequences for their health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u65	Today is the anniversary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u66	Right, that's right. We hope that there will be no problems here from fire pollutants, for example from benzene or asbestos to soil, air and groundwater. It is, however, a crime that the state allowed citizens to roam to Eye after the fire and clean up, while experts had warnings. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Thirdly, from the total of six and a half thousand homes, the two and a half thousand were burned and the four thousand have serious damage. Insurance companies have already paid more than EUR 30 million for damages to buildings that were insured, with an average compensation of EUR 41,000. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Therefore, compensation requirements are likely six to seven times higher. If an average of EUR 100 000 for two and a half thousand burned houses and EUR 40,000 for four thousand homes with damages is not calculated then the compensation can reach EUR 400 million. Already the assistance announced by the Ministry is EUR 500 per square to EUR 75 000, and three and a half thousand applications are expected. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Fourthly, the cost of building public buildings is not at all low. For example, a school costs about 500,000 euros, a large cultural centre can exceed 20 million euros, a city hall of 21 million euros, etc. Fifthly, infrastructure improvements and reconstruction, fire extinguishation, flooding and many other projects that have a major cost will be needed. These damages should include mismanagement that will reduce the amounts. There is not only a mismanagement in Greece, but there are everywhere, while it has been in all the countries that have created such catastrophes. In addition, the available amounts will be reduced due to the company’s operating costs. It is difficult to define, of course, since volunteer consultants will only be used by the payment of travel services - Article 33d - but without specifying what will be covered and who will control it. Let us note here that the company will also be supported by public officials in - Article 31A - but this contribution is not quantified in the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State. Finally, without extending to other details, there is a great deal to be looked at and not mentioned in the bill - which, in our view, is very rough - and we have too many reservations on both sides. Although it has a good purpose, we think that they are inadequate and uncertain. However, the work in the Eye must be carried out in a more transparent and effective way, especially for the owners and residents of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. I would like to say this: Mr Logiadis will now speak on behalf of Mera25. Immediately afterwards, I will give the floor to Mr Kontozamanis, State Secretary for Health for a five-minute intervention, and immediately thereafter to the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who has asked for the floor. Then let us get to know when the Minister wants to speak, Mr Hatzidakis, and then start with the speakers. At some point Mr. Velopoulos, the President of Greek Solution, will also speak. With the speakers I propose, after Mr Skourikos, that, as they are only speakers of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, we have a rotation between them, that is to say one from the New Democracy, one from the SYRIZA and others. At the end of the day, of course, there will be only six speakers left in SYRIZA, but I imagine that there will also be some kind of parliamentary delegation...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u68	At the end of the day, the Parliamentary Representatives need not speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u69	Not whenever they want to talk. I'm not talking about it. I'm just saying that some people might break it and talk at the end, but it's okay and talk to six Members of the New Democracy. It's nothing terrible. All right, so we can come up with that. So now, Mr. Loyade, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at three meetings of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, we analysed and developed these issues in detail on Eye. For the first time, we invited the House of Greek local bodies and institutions to listen to their opinions and proposals. This process highlights the quality of our Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, disasters, fires, floods, earthquakes will unfortunately always happen. One more reason now because of global climate change, which, as Mera25, we have raised and put to absolute priority, as our aim is to protect our threatened environment. We must have institutionalised specific procedures, an integrated civil protection plan that will be implemented every time when we have to deal with such threat and disaster situations, a manual which defines who, when, what and how. There must be precise definition of competences, quickly addressing, immediate assistance and compensation for the affected, restoring the environment. Prevention should always be our priority, services should be up-to-date, well-trained, well equipped with every means at their disposal to better deal with these phenomena and to best deal with them. Our infrastructure must be modern, right streets, flooding and accessing everywhere. There should also be care for our fellow humans who either because of health or special needs travel with cars. On this occasion, the destruction in Matti is another occasion, and I shall mention briefly a few fair and self-evident demands to better deal with these difficult situations: the instruments we have, for example, for fire-fighting vehicles, are not old, the distribution of staff and their education is not incomplete, the planning and coordination with local government being effective. And I ask: are you really the ten firemen who are being persecuted today for the fire in Matty? Also, very often this phenomenon occurs with forest firemen, but also with other security forces: In summer many tourists visit Greece and Crete from where I am. Many go hiking, not individually organised, in our amazing nature and often they get lost, really because of the beauty of our nature. And then many forces are forced to be involved, which are extracted from their real work, that of fire protection. These actions also cost the Greek society a great deal of money, because our state has not yet established a list of such actions, as all other countries do. Our proposal is to establish such a cost list by the state. How much does it cost every hour a person of the security units looking for the lost man? How much is the hospital that's supposed to go? How much does the helicopter cost to fly? Now, no one is against the articles here that it is a direct and urgent need to relieve the affected and restore the region. In Article 1, of course, we agree in principle. The resources and funds available must be used immediately. Article 1(1) defines the immediate removal of waste and any dangerous material in general. We agree, but it does not legislate - and it is for us, as Mera25, a failure that we are demonstrating - how they will go and how they will be exploited. This essential omission is completely contradictory to the spirit of this IMP for environmental protection. Where are the trash, burnt materials? How will they be destroyed and by what procedures will they burn? Such garbage serves as a fuel, for example in the cement industry, as a very cheap raw material for cement production. And here I would like to stress what has happened in Volos recently. Mera25 was informed that a strong smell of plastic and burned iron has been observed in the city's atmosphere, mainly in the morning hours and that in Volos there have been sues from the Medical Association and various other bodies in the past week. These RDF garbage, as they are called, Refuse - Derived Fuel, is a fuel produced by various types of solid garbage and can be used as a fuel according to the World Economic Council for Sustainable Development, "World Business Council for Sustainable Development", but after their specific processing. Studies have shown that industries using garbage as a fuel in the surrounding areas are more mortality among both workers and residents. In Article 2, here we have the establishment of an urban, non-profit company, called "Mati Again", which refers to the action plans for the renewal and restoration of the area and the improvement of the lives of the inhabitants. This states that this company is involved, among others, by persons from local society, the Court of Auditors, the General Accounting Office, etc. It also states in the end that any issue relating to the operation, purposes, resources, financial management, the establishment of this company is foreseen to be regulated by a decision of the Prime Minister. I wonder: after all, is everything concentrating on the Prime Minister? For me there is a great contradiction here, which we must highlight and stress. Mera25 will monitor the procedures to ensure that we do not have a repetition of the infamous fund set up in 2007 after the fires of Elijah. And we go to Article 3, which provides that the TEI may award by way of derogation from the established provisions of the existing legislation relating to the procedure for awarding a service or supply contract. This provision, in our view, does not need to be commented on, but it speaks for itself. As far as Article 2 is concerned, I would like to say about the Red Port that the resources available must not be used for infrastructure projects, but quite clearly and immediately, because it has already been a year since the people affected. Furthermore, in our view, there can be no VAT of 24% - please - on this point. It is not right for a quarter of the resources available to go to the state. Even in this way, are we trying to satisfy our lenders who are imposing us unbearable primary surpluses? I'm asking. Finally, I should like to thank all those who have helped financially at that time with donations - institutions, institutions and citizens - but also in every other way of volunteering, solidarity, altruism, risking themselves and their assets to stand up to the human drama of that day. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as a PART25, have raised our proposals in terms of position, but also in law, by tabling two amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the Eye, none of us is forgetting here, I am sure that this is a great national tragedy which requires that all of us should deal with its consequences. It is our responsibility to the dead and the living, the memory of the dead and the efforts of the living to find a new life in the region. I want to believe that the whole debate will take place in this spirit. The government does not bode well for what it is doing today, for this bill that it is discussing today. It considers that it is merely doing its duty and we expect the Vice-Presidents to move along the same wavelengths. We don't have the infallible. We never thought we came and brought a bill that could not be improved. We're here to hear suggestions to discuss improvements. This is what we have also sought with the debate in the committee and with the hearing of bodies within the committee, a procedure by way of derogation, because, as you know, when it comes to the ratification of an act of law, there are no bodies for hearing. In any case, we believe that this was of added value. I would like to point out, however, that I was surprised to some extent by the position of the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Spirtzi. Nothing personal, but I have the impression that Mr Spirtzis alone did not reclaim the House for the handling of the previous government. I think we all need to be more held up when there's a hundred dead and responsibilities for the dead. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here today for no reason. We are because there are problems to deal with, problems that have been inherited to the current government since the previous day. I am obliged, for example, to mention some of the titles so that this is not considered to be an exercise of public relations here, or that the previous government is wrongly accused of doing what it should do. I'm not saying she didn't want me to, I'm trying to judge her outcome. I would therefore like to remind you that, from the four hundred and seventy-five cases of demolition, only sixty-one were finally proceeded with the election. People want to buy real estate and they cannot because the demolition process has not been completed. Thirdly, rehabilitation applications. Of two thousand four hundred thirty rehabilitation applications, only four hundred forty went ahead. Fourth, repairs. Eight hundred eighty-five cases were granted only for three hundred forty-two. Of the Special Account's money from about 38 million, only 6 million have been used, the rest are greedy. In addition, in our view, there was a serious mistake in the administration's handling of the special spatial plan. First of all, the pre-approval of the special spatial plan took a whole year. It turns out today - the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, who is a professor of Planning and Spatial Planning, will also speak - that this pre-approval was not necessary, because the Ministry itself was the speedy one, could go through a simpler procedure. It is also clear, however, that in addition to the prior approval, normal approval, the final adoption of the specific spatial plan could have taken place for a year. That's not what happened either. So I'd expect a greater restraint from Mr. Spirtzi and SYRIZA. What are we trying to do with this bill, which partially ratifys the act of legislation adopted after the elections in accordance with the commitments of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, for the Eye and is also going on with some other provisions that are incorporated here today? We're trying to achieve three things. Firstly, we are moving on to absolutely immediate action, such as the rapid implementation by ministerial decisions of the actions needed to prevent risks in the area, removal of asbestos, removal of waste from this notorious land and so on. Secondly, we are adopting a grid of protection regulations and improving the health and safety conditions of the people affected. What do I mean? I mean, for example, a one-year extension of the time limits laid down by the act of legislation of July last concerning the submission of a request for housing assistance and the suspension of seizures and auctions. That goes for a year later. A register of burns and fire victims is also provided to cover victims by way of derogation from the EEAS. Mr. Kontozamanis is here, the Deputy Minister of Health, who will then speak in greater detail on this matter. Thirdly, and I will dwell more on this, we are creating the conditions for the rapid renewal and restoration of areas on a sound basis. I will finally put what concerns the Ministry of Environment and Energy in relation to the rapid procedures and specific deadlines for the implementation of the projects, the restoration of the networks, etc. and I will start from the urban non-profit company called "Mati Again", which is a partnership of the co-legislative ministries and municipalities in the region with the associations active in these areas and which will take action to regenerate the regions. The company's statute is incorporated - and I personally believe that it is absolutely positive - in this draft law to ensure transparency. We have heard in committee the reactions of the people concerned on this particular issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all understood that the inhabitants are in favour of this initiative, embrace this initiative and rejoice that their representatives will be involved, that they will be present in this process. We also heard from the populations' coordination committee in Matti that it had been requested by the previous government to set up an agency to deal with the disaster, but that was not the case at that time. I'm not considering why it didn't happen. It's happening today. What I want to repeat is this, I also noted it in committee: ladies and gentlemen, we must go quickly. We can't delay any longer. It's a state's elementary obligation. Are there transparency issues? Of course there are issues of transparency! And of course you are here to control us and control the committee. And our obligation is to control this urban non-profit corporation and to monitor it closely. I do not want to think that there will be people who will be involved in this matter and who will try to speculate on people's pain. But you are here with your institutional role and we are here as supervisors to monitor these procedures. Because if this is too late, you yourself who are criticising transparency today will criticise us because things have not gone ahead and that they have remained where we have received it. I want to make clean accounts. We can't take it. And we can't afford it, not just politically, we can't have it conscientiously. The issue is too serious for it to be a matter of party controversy. I repeat, however, that all the comments made by the President of the Court of Auditors, which came to the committee on the pre-contractual audit and the audit of the Court of Auditors, have been incorporated. We are also fully applying the Public Procurement Act, the founding law of EFSA, the competent authority, by using the provisions on force majeure. And I ask each fellow Member in the Chamber: if we do not have force majeure here, what is the case of force majeure when our country, for a year, the Greek citizens, and even the non-interested, have been engaged on a constant basis in this matter, with this national drama? We are therefore trying to combine - and I think we are doing - the speed with transparency. In the draft law, there are certain types of insurance in this respect. I referred to the first insurance policy, which is the pre-contractual, but also the repressive control of the Court of Auditors, which is provided for in the Constitution. There's also here. The Court of Auditors will be there and will check in advance and repressively. I'm clear. Secondly: Contract awards are limited of a limited period of time, which is determined and fully commensurate with the aim of restoring, addressing damage. The awards of contracts are also provided for by concise tenders and not by direct awards. We therefore think that we are on the right track so that there is no room for arbitraryness, but at the same time also that we have the necessary speed. I conclude with the provisions relating specifically to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, because so far I have spoken to you extensively about the urban non-profit company. What do I want to say about ours, strictly, issues? Since the need for a specific spatial plan has emerged in the affected areas, it has been decided that the Technical Chamber of Greece should undertake its training. Why? Because, as far as the services are concerned, once again Mr Economou can tell you, who is much more specific to me on this subject - if we were to go through the traditional procedures of the Greek public administration, it could take up to ten years to draw up the special spatial plan. So we have said, ladies and gentlemen, that we should cut off. And instead of finding someone we know, some company, someone, anyone, we went to the TEI, which is the state's institutional advisor on all these issues, the TEI, whose president was Mr. Spirtzis a few years ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u73	When you abolished its resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u74	... in order as a technical adviser of the Greek State, having the necessary know-how, to outsource the studies needed to draw up this project, but also because it can work, we consider it to be speedily and efficiently. But since Mr Spirtzi has been questioned by the TEI's technical adequacy, I would like to say to him that we are glad to accept and accept his criticism of this and the follow-up that he will make on this issue as a representative of the Anti-Population Officer, but I would also like to say to the TEI from this Step forward that the Government is not playing with these issues. Anyone taking over something must bring it to fruition. Therefore, the third article of the Act of Legislative Content provided for a contract between the Technical Chamber of Greece and the Minister for the Environment and Energy. This specific spatial plan is a very important project, as there will be a substantial effort to organise the areas by urban means, to address the issues that we all point out that there have been for many years, without, of course, excluding fire management for that reason, Mr Spirtzi - I am referring to your own remark. So try to rebuild the regions and deal with years of problems. The cost of the studies to be commissioned is estimated at EUR 1 million. The amount of these studies has been calculated on the basis of the applicable standards. The studies will be awarded following a call for expressions of interest to scholars who will be selected on specific transparent criteria: staffing and experience, ability to draw up in a very short time, technical competence, financial offer, etc. I would also like to say that these studies are a prerequisite for the completion of the specific spatial plan. What are these necessary studies? It is topographical study, forest study, urban, geological, hydraulic, strategic environmental impact study. The Ministry of Environment and Energy is moving quickly on this issue, as the TEI and all stakeholders have already been invited to exchange views from which they have been asked to submit statements and suggestions. I would also like to remind you that the Secretary-General responsible, Mr Bakoyannis, has already done two self-consciousness in the region, because we want to follow closely this issue. The programming agreed with the TEI is to sign the contract and to award the studies in September. That's planning, that's planning. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, there is obviously also a number of other projects, which are in the way of alpha or beta of our own competence, projects relating to logging, planting, flooding, flooding, etc. Unfortunately, as has been confirmed by the information provided by local bodies and associations in the debate we held on Monday in the Committee on Production and Trade, not even 50% of these necessary actions have been completed. In any case, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue should not divide us. For our part, we must learn from the mistakes of the past, our mistakes when we had in the past been a government of the country and yours in the management of the fire and in the management of the effects of the fire. And you, despite your mistakes, obviously have the right to judge us, to monitor us every day. Your review is welcome and useful. I have only one request to make: away from micro-communism. It is certain that micro-partyism harms him as a practice, but he certainly does not serve the country. Our homeland has been afflicted for many years by such political anachronism. However, it is not worthy of this great national issue, especially in this great national tragedy, to be a government and opposition under the circumstances. Let us all try together to surprise Greek citizens happily. And as far as the government is concerned, this is the mandate given to all the co-presidents of the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u75	Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Velopoulos, strictly for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u76	The Minister's leaving, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u77	That's why I wanted to talk, because I have to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u78	It's okay, although I'd like you to hear some things especially about PPC. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that we are discussing something which is truly a little absurd. There is no register in the country, there are no forest maps. For a hundred years we have been fighting for this story and it has been the Minister, if I am not mistaken, thirty years, forty years - I do not know - twenty-five years, like SYRIZA four years. I won't take much time, Mr. Voutsi, don't worry. I'll finish fast. I know, you have the floor after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u79	It's okay. Speak as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u80	No, I will shorten the time to talk to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u81	I can come after the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u82	I would therefore like to say this: it is absurd to bring in a bill that only concerns Matti - and not only is it about Eye, and we are doing well because they have suffered a very large, huge, I would say, naturality with human error - but also because we Members here are giving private companies the opportunity to make, says roads, topographic plans. The state admits that it is incapable of doing what it is obliged to do in a small area, namely roads, infrastructures and we give it to private individuals. I'm not against the private initiative, as a businessman, I'm a freelance professional, I'm dealing with the private sector, but what a admission that is, you tell me to understand. That you can't? That the New Democracy can't make a serious plan so that, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Minister, can it be self-evident? I don't get it. Mr Tsiaras has brought us an amendment, which I appreciate, with the mediation. The law is 2018 and we take extensions because, he says, you are not ready. Well, you electionally say you have a plan, you have a schedule, you have it all set, you rule from the first moment and you ask for extensions? I don't understand that. I mean, to say it, and otherwise you're in the government for two months. You're going to tell me it's a little bit, but it's a budget, but you've had another fifteen years of country's governance, it's not too small. Aren't you capable of mediating, too? It's a day's work, tops. To sit five employees and fix it. And you're bringing us amendments. You who have called them shameful amendments are doing exactly the same thing that you have complained about. I am sorry, but it is not just, I will say it directly, incompetence to the New Democracy, but it is also dangerous to democracy. Because the amendments are in a hurry, I say this, and Parliament is blackmailing them at the same time, because the amendment is reasonable. And so now we, the rest of the opposition, the major but also the minor, are being blackmailed by an amendment justified, because it helps the world, to vote for an amendment which we would not want because it rapes democracy. Do you understand what position you're bringing us, Minister? Do you understand that? You were saying you're ready. Mr. Prime Minister had a plan for everything. It was Houdini, and I said it was pro-election, who will solve all the problems, and you can't solve a mediation. About the bill: Listen, the purpose is good. We all agreed on that, he's good. But the way is wrong, because you say that the money will go from a special account to projects, not to people, that is, indirectly, people will win, with the works that people do. Look, you have a love for the individuals whom, frankly, you properly appreciate, but you do not pay attention, because nowhere is there any civil sanctions, criminals, administratives. There are no sanctions, rapporteur. I read the bill if they're there, maybe I was wrong. So, if this NGO's wrong, why is it theoretically a non-profit company, if someone's wrong and the money's lost, who's gonna pay the bride? How about you? Your Minister? The Prime Minister? No, they never paid. Never did the criminal mistakes made and lost money by the Greek people did not pay the politicians, since we legislate to get rid of them. I'm putting me in, if you'd like, even though I've never had any government position in my life. Even contractors who will take over companies and do jobs will have no sanction. What's that thing? Full immunity? That's called immunity. The Minister says we have the Court of Auditors. Now we're laughing. The Court of Auditors' clerk is going to check on the contractor if he's in abusive. Hey, guys, which country is this? Where are these? You tell me to understand. Because I do travel abroad, these do not happen anywhere, only in Banana could happen, called Greece. Because this is how Greece, Bananas, because we had fires in Elia - if you remember it was the New Democracy government - and then they all came out of here and said that you were incapable, etc., because the inability seemed. It's the same thing as Matty now. In Article 2(3), how are the design assignments to the companies to be carried out? Do you understand that? How is the award of studies going to be done? There's gonna be a study, but who's gonna do it? How's the assignment going to be made? I don't understand. It's all over the place. If someone reads it, who really has good will and mood, like us, they'll see he gets in. Article 2(9) imposes 24% VAT. I mean, the donation money is going to be taxed. Who gives you that right? Who gives you the right to the ten euros of the Greek citizen who gave the fundraisers 24% tax? Who? You tell me! Indirectly to receive one/4, because of 100 euros minus 24% is 1/4 and you get it back. Why? Is that your money? Is that the money of the New Democracy and the Government? No, it's the citizens who gave the fund to the fundraisers. What's simpler than that? Tax it off. This is where you taxed your friend Latsi. Latsi, your buddy, in Greek you taxed him with the buildings! Why don't you do the same? Is Latsis more worthy of the ravage that lost his life or his relative? I'm asking, and it's an academic question. Article 3, board of directors: five members who are nominated by a trade union decision of the region. Guys, what criteria? Someone's coming out of the union and saying I want him, and the other one's gonna say he wants him. But are we in good shape? And they're gonna manage money? How superficially does this government work? I really don't get it. I thought the Prime Minister would have a technological perception, he'd be good, technocrat. I guess Harvard didn't get a good look at the letters, because I'm going to tell you straight away - another thing about reading a economy and applying it in practice every day. It's completely different things. Another theory and another act. In theory, he might be good, in practice, I see the government's having problems. Let's go to the rest. I learned yesterday that there will still be a recipe for "FRAPORT" in Greek. Did you hear that, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Latsis will get loans from Greek and foreign banks to invest, he says, this money. He got from Eurobank the five, six billion that he had run away in the past, put it in his pocket, made the investment in the Greek, Mr. Voutsi and Mr. Vice President, but how? With borrowing. Don't do it to me like "FRAPORT", to borrow with a guarantee from the Greek State, because "FRAPORT" today invests in Greece, after taking EUR 700 million from Alpha Bank and from the Parexiana Bank. Is that an investment? Do you sacrifice everything in the Greek for Latsi? Hey, guys, who's Lachy after all? Who is this gentleman that you so scared of and served him? You're getting him the VAT out of the building. Investor with borrowing. Where have you guys seen it? You must also guarantee the Greek State, as you did with the "FRAPORT"! These are not investment, this is the pillaging, gentlemen, of the Greek people, the pillaging of our national wealth. That's it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the rest for PPC. The Minister's not here, he's gone. I've said it a thousand times, stop talking, because it exposes PPC. He went and went out at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, Mr.Varemene, to a private company that gets cheaper than PPC and sells expensive to the citizens. He went and took a picture of a private company car, the Minister, the representative of PPC, our state body. In which country would they do this, Minister, and would they not have given him up the next day? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I am not against the private sector - to God! - but this is not a private sector, gentlemen. Do you know why? I'll tell you now. How was PPC charged? It's time for the Greek people to know the truth from here and I'll tell it quickly. PPC receives 0.094 per KWh and pays the producers 0,35. Who's paying for this job? Through the variable-cost recovery mechanism - MMK is called - in 2010-2014 they grabbed 812 million euros from PPC. Through power availability permits - ADD is said - in 2010-2014 they grabbed 392 million euros. Through the transitional flexibility compensation mechanism, MME, - listen here to what they are doing for their private friends, whether they or the others - by excluding 3/4 of the water and all lignites in 2016-2017 they grabbed 172 million euros from PPC. This is a waste for PPC. That's how PPC went down. The state stole 681m euros, which spent on services of general interest, OHIM, in 2011. Through NOME from October 25, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, until 2016 they took 310 million euros. I have a list of hundreds of millions of euros PPC lost. You shut her up, gentlemen, and you and you. This is where I want you. Where is Hatzidakis, who said the criminal responsibilities would be investigated? So if this Minister and your Government are serious, we can see who is the fault of PPC and PPC. But you will do a greek recipe, gillnets, sell it, so that there is Vassilis and the whole summer that AEGEAN has been delayed once and for two and three hours, the private monopoly. You fought the state monopoly because you are in favour of the private body and we have a private monopoly in "AEGEAN" today. We're the only country that has this. The only, Mr. Undersecretary. Tell me a country where there are no two, three companies. I mean a serious country. Don't tell me African. Africans are many. I'm saying that to understand that something is wrong, especially with Latsi. Such love for Latsi? Such love for the Greek, which you give him everything, with the guarantee of the Greek public, as it is renowned. In other words, for the investor Velopoulos and the other Greek citizens will guarantee a loan from a Greek bank with a guarantee from the Greek State to invest in the Greek and build seven skyscrapers. This is the Minister, Adonish, when I asked him, he told me two. Now it's seven. They grow like mushrooms. It can be seventeen at the end. You have no problem. The next generations will have the problem in the Greek. I'm telling you right now. We'll live a lot of people in here and we'll find them in front of us. I would also like to show you that this country cannot provide any security for the Greek citizen. They went to Army warehouses, took an entire trunk full of explosives, mines, guns, a bunch of war material. Do you understand what happened? He's the admiral here. Do you understand what's happened to Lero? I'm sorry, no one's talking. Here's the channels, let's get some in the log. Do we understand what this war material means? We had a similar event in Syria in Larissa, and then we had terrorist organisations, which were killing people. Do you understand what that means? Do you know what weapons they've taken? It's unbelievable what's going on. Nobody understands anything. No one's talking, nothing. It's like nothing happened. What did they take? They took, I know, five pens and a typewriter. They didn't get a pen. They took weapons, mines, guns, grenades, and nobody talks. I'm sorry. This isn't happening in another country. They would have resigned - I tell you right now - the Minister of National Defence, the Chief of Army, the GS. It is - I repeat - an excuse for resignation. And if they don't give up, the Prime Minister will take their heads away. Let the Minister of National Defence ask for the resignations of all the officers, to prove that there is a sanction, there is a tampering break of punishment, when you make a wrong voluntary or involuntary act. Friends and friends, be serious, because Leros is near the Dodecanese for those who don't know. If tomorrow morning the three hundred thousand, the five hundred thousand, Erdogan, says that they exist across the street, ready to send them to Greece and between the five hundred thousand, are also thirty thousand Turkish soldiers unarmed to come in Greece, what are we going to do? Have you ever thought of that? He tells you five hundred thousand and puts thirty thousand of his own soldiers, agents, collectors, carpaziers, provocators, to make the fifth bay on the back of Greece. Will the House ever speak of the red line in the refugee? Will Parliament ever say what is the red line in Erdogan's challenges? Will the political leaders speak - even behind closed doors - to know what this line is? I repeat the question, which is not rhetoric: Erdogan says five hundred thousand and leaves thirty, forty, fifty thousand trained soldiers unarmed to come this way. And they're refugees, aren't they? And these are immigrants, aren't they, guys? They're good people, aren't they? Aren't we supposed to take them to the camps we've got here? So I'm saying this for just one reason and I'll say it straight away: If we know that there are soldiers, will the Greek Army open fire? Yes or no? I know your opinion. You're all philanthropists. Yes, but I want to sleep in my house, not to lock myself in, I want to be quiet that my child will not suffer any suffering of any poacher, criminal, even the one who is hungry and goes to steal. I want to be quiet, law and order. That's what logic says. A rule of law, a serious state has the law and order above all. It's not bad: law and order. I don't understand why we incriminate concepts? And you of the New Democracy - to close, so that I don't abuse time - why have you recently baptized the fish? Until yesterday all of your ministers and MPs were saying that they were poachers, illegal immigrants. Suddenly they all became refugees or immigrants. Who are these immigrants? Those who come from Morocco, from Algeria with 30 euros to go to Istanbul and get us here by Erdogan? Are these immigrants? Are we serious? You're making fun of the world, go to the channels and say they're immigrants. They're not immigrants, they're poachers, they're perfect. They're coming, they're invading, so they're poachers. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'm not talking about the little kids, so I don't get wrong. They're just the little kids. You're obliged as a man to take them, but it can't be a clear-cut vineyard in Greece. That's the end of the story. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] In conclusion, of course, I am ashamed of another reason and it is the last thing I have to say: New Democracy Ministers can't be crushed by shipowners. Inadmissible morally! Mitsotakis family may have something to do with Marinakis - her right! -, buttons, but seeing ministers provocatively in Thessaloniki with Marinakis cigars inside the shops is different. I'd be ashamed to sit in this store called New Democracy. You should be ashamed of just one reason: Marinakis and every Marinakis are not random people in Greece. They have means of informing us every day. They have channels, they have radios, they have newspapers and you sit and eat and drink with whom? With those who look at their personal interests, not the interest of Greece. I mean, it's not the only phenomenon. This shows the rottenness of this state. And where did they do it? In Thessaloniki, where fans of PAOK and Mars and the rest of the teams do not do very well with this story. It's a challenge you're making. Go to his birthday because many of your ministers go to Mr. Marinaki's birthday. But, coming to Thessaloniki and sitting, eating, drinking with cigars, uh, that's a challenge! I sincerely regret that the New Democracy as a Conservative Party has a morally different attitude than I see today. Change your morale, change your policy, because you're not going well at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u83	Minister, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Contozamani, you asked me to speak for three minutes, I will give you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u86	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. I'll say you asked me for the floor. I just want to point out, Minister, that you mustn't leave later. I'm saying you shouldn't leave because you're the only minister here right now. Then Mr. Voutsi will speak. I will say that the admiral - by habit - made me a point, that we should all talk more about the bill. Of course, there are prerogatives, but we should take care of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, may I add a word? I want to say something about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u88	You're welcome, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u89	We have come here with great excitement to contribute to a tragedy, and we have heard about Marinakis cigars, Erdogan and anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u90	He doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. Let him know!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u91	It's not television.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u92	It's not the municipality here! Mr President, he does not know the Rules of Procedure! Let him know first!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u93	Wait a minute! I think we should stop...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u94	I don't want to know him!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u95	He doesn't know the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u96	There was one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I am so sorry, I will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u98	The presidents speak as they like. Mr President, it is once again doing so! He doesn't know the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u99	Yes, but let's stop, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u100	I'll find out very well about the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u101	The President speaks as much as he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u102	There was an inducement from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I am focusing on the following: we have come here with great excitement to improve a draft law dealing with Matti. If there's anything that improves it, I'd be happy to vote for it. We're not here to hear everything else. There is the Prime Minister's time for putting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u104	Good. I say, however, that Mr Velopoulos did not come out of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure enable him as President to extend beyond the issue we are discussing. From that point on, please continue now. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief. Article 2 of this draft law introduces a new procedure to help burners - victims of forest fires - not only in Eye, but also in any other fires either now or in the future, so as to get rid of bureaucratic mechanisms so that burners can have access to medicines, consumables, medical devices, all kinds of physical treatments, rehabilitation treatments, home care and whatever is needed to restore their health without the participation of the beneficiaries. The most important thing is that the procedure introduced creates a register of burns, which, as we have already said, will work in the EEAS and will provide each beneficiary with a list of the products and the treatments to be given to it, so that the treatments, whether provided for in the EEA Single Health Regulation or not, are available to any beneficiary in that register. I must also say another thing as important, that this register will give the opportunity to electronically issue the opinion of which the beneficiary will be able to receive the products and have access to the services he needs and without participation. This means, of course, that there will be no charge on the beneficiary of this category. Once again, I would say that it concerns all citizens, insured and uninsured. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u106	The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to take the floor, beyond the obvious causes, and to make an account of the sensitivity shown at the time by the House and in relation to my presence at the special account service. The House has put 10 million on this special account. And of course, politically speaking, this is a tragedy which shows the eyes and consciences of the citizens the need for a serious and responsible attitude of the political world, which I believe at least today is moving at this level. Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that the next day of the tragedy, which, in my opinion, - and we said it publicly very quickly after those dramatic days - will continue and haunt Greek society in the biennial, perhaps, the Greek Parliament was convened exceptionally and decisions had been made. Also, the workers in the House had given blood. The decision was then made and in order to provide EUR 10 million from the reserve and also to provide assistance, assistance from the House and other issues that would arise. Please submit the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious - and there had been a great debate at the time - that we are talking about the coincidence of two very important factors in why and how this huge tragedy took place. It is obvious - and it was recognised today by what I understood - that there were huge responsibilities of all the previous governments, the political situations as a whole, for the development of spatial planning, of the region's town planning, a situation which is extremely difficult even to remove, to record intercredit. And that seems to me to be the case now that everyone is saying that we must take action to bring about the situation there through the special peasant. At the same time, however, it was one of the first warnings our country accepted for climate change and its consequences in modern times. It is not just a matter of modern phenomena of climate change, but it is a climate crisis in which our world, the planet, has entered internationally. It is perhaps a matter of number at the moment. And especially for the Mediterranean and for the relief of our country, these phenomena may in future be asymmetrical - we were talking about asymmetric threats to terrorism, here are asymmetric risks from the climate crisis - to raise new situations. The Prime Minister then remembers very well that on his own responsibility, beyond the Ministerial Council which had taken place immediately, just pointing out these two issues, these two factors in a multifactorial situation and responsibilities and operational deficiencies, etc. It was precisely with regard to both sides that there should be improvements and radical changes in the area of civil protection and that, on the one hand, there should be a very serious study of the issues of the climate crisis. And I submit in Minutes the prologue of the committee under German Professor Goldammer, who, along with Greek professors, did a systematic job, just on the asymmetrical character of these threats to climate change. They brought us to the House, they were presented, there was a special debate on the special committee of this House and it is indeed the ground for the civil protection plans, which, from now on, should in a much more radical way be faced with this situation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to be very clear from this step, because it seems that time should not be pantomically in relation to the political responsibilities that we all take. You all remember that political responsibility had first been assumed by the Prime Minister and that, in relation to the general political responsibility for the operational weaknesses, the mistakes, the delays that have been made and have been pointed out for the fire to be suppressed in the very few minutes that this incident has occurred. This has been done, and I wonder how it sounds from this Step that no one has taken responsibility for the rest. I want to tell you, however, directly something and to be informed. Today, of course, the tons were low, but we spent a whole year. We know very well - and I am always talking about our country - what is happening. There are thousands of road accidents on a road network that had not yet been modernised. Also, there are drownings in our country from people drowning at ten meters and we know every summer how many are recorded, there are victims of major earthquakes, because it is earthquake-like country, there are shipwrecks, there are, there are. The route has unfortunately also such national tragedies, with our fellow citizens' victims, the journey of the decades that we have lived on, at least the largest. It is unacceptable, beyond the search for political responsibilities which, at all times and in the light of the responsibilities of the political heads of business - because there are government operational arms in relation to all these issues - are attributed, in a way that is continuous and I would actually describe him as outside of every political morality, targeted objections to the limits of the tumbling, for example, to the District Director of Attica Mr Duru. I had never heard of all these decades that happened to us - and to Elijah earlier, it was heard about Nikaria - that about seven months ago there was, a communication management of targeting persons, names, at the level of how one sleeps in this regard - I do not say another hundred dead here, forty dead there, thirty dead, etc. Of course, tones are down today. Suddenly, these do not exist because the political capitalisation that had been done by media groups and by a communication, disgustingly politically, made sense of what it was to perform. Today we are talking human beings, politically, with a consensus from all of us, to find solutions. But what happened in the past seven months in this dimension? So the lessons should not only be learned about how to deal with natural disasters, but also the country's political class and the country's political system and parties should be taught by how they are managed or done in these cases and not go to personal targeting at this level. It has been developed in committee, both by the rapporteurs and by Mr Spiritzis in particular, an obvious argument in relation to the committee, with this company and questions raised for this choice. Let me tell you with the experience of our presence and of the management - and I will tell you what it was about the management - in relation to the special account. Let me tell you that I see no reason why this PPP has taken place in connection with the establishment of this company, which will take over these projects. There's no reason. Just because we had experience, I think, of the legal person governed by public law who had become the case of Elijah, the Molyviatis Fund, had we been sent, the government then, from that perception, and what did we say? There was something very simple, a central account of the Treasury, which was held up at the Bank of Greece, where the bids were going, where we would like to take all the offers - because there is one point, which I will say today, I am obliged to say to you about which offers they went, they have not gone and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me some time, Mr President. So there was an account where the executive power, the ministries, submitted the requests with the documents for the burner, for the asbestos, for what has been heard here, for the set-aside of houses, etc., and this committee was disbursing towards the executive, for the ministries, for the government which had the absolute responsibility, for political and administrative, with the rules of financial control and with all the data of the country, from there and beyond to administer these funds. Simple as that! So we're judged, you'll be judged. What was said - and is judged in these cases - is whether the executive power, the relevant ministries, the competent bodies, bring the right requests in a proper way and manage the money from there and beyond. There is no need for a company to enter the'master plan' - let us say that - of managing these funds. That is why I expressed my astonishment to the current President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, when you first made this proposal as an idea. All right, move on to that. Our rapporteur has said that there will be solidarity. There will be no co-responsibility, of course, but the effort to help. There is not going to be an objection, a resistance to this, but there are questions which remain. I shall refer to the special account to finish. I am presenting to you, in the Minutes, all the sums of EUR 10,000 and over, which have been submitted by bodies and the committee's internal minutes, on the basis of which funds have been approved on the basis of the ministries' planning base. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, some clarification is needed for the allocation of money first, because I heard the Prime Minister in the programming declarations - there was no time to be answered - to get rid of it because of the EUR 39 million of this special account - because it was not that money that was given there, given by the PPP, by the ministries at the same time, we did not discuss it - only the EUR 8 million had been disbursed. There was, for example, an already approved decision on EUR 12.5 million in relation to the building launches - you will see them in practice too - which, apparently, also because of the issues raised here by the Minister, would have needed time for them to be removed. And the responsibility was assumed by the special account for their satisfaction. So it wasn't that they didn't. There may have been some delays, there may have been shortcomings in the pace, but the design to which Mr Spirtz referred was correct and interchangeable and in the sense of the responsibility of the ministries, namely the executive authority for this matter. I would like to say straight away that out of these EUR 38 million that have been collected - because something has been heard by the private sector, and so on. - 35m euros are of the House, the OAED and the Bank of Greece. One and a half million euros are from some embassies of states which we thanked for, and from some municipalities and regions, following intensive notes that we sent them to assist the account. Two million euros are from five thousand of our fellow citizens who offered their thorn. That is what this is about with regard to the special account. That's the truth. Maybe you'd read them then. That's why I call it a step-by-step. Now we're talking about it without any desire to open up for him then, but you're responsible now as you manage this account, to carry out some checks. You may have read that there has been an effort belligerent, willingly helped by too many actors and by the private sector. I am sorry to tell you that, from those who were able - and some of them did some specific projects - no one agreed to put their money into the special account, perhaps because of the previous Molyviat account. Not one of the names you've heard at the time! I also have a personal question whether there was in the end any contribution from a number of private individuals who said 'Voutssi gives a million euros' or gives three or five euros, etc., because they could only be controlled in consultation with the government, which the Minister went on at the time with the Prime Minister, Mr Flavouraris, for example, for some projects. For example, there were companies that helped remove these sixty houses or felling or at the beginning of the Lyceum Foundation. However, with which control, what amounts, in which projects together with the Government and residents and institutions through their need? Let me tell you that there are questions. The municipalities themselves opened up funds, events and concerts around them. Only from the concert in Herodio, held by the Athens Festival, were seventy thousand euros deposited. We made an effort to get from the rest of the banks what was submitted. We've got the prints. It's four and a half million. They've been deposited with other banks. It would be unfair to those of the individuals who - and there were many - who have actually given to a specific project, put them on the same fate and put any questioning to you - but it is a matter which the current government must take into account, precisely because of the state's continuity, and also in consultation with the institutions, to make use of their already submitted public intentions and to exploit themselves in favour of restoring the damage. Mr President, I am presenting for the Minutes the press releases of the communications which have been made since the meeting we had and the opening with the Government of Cyprus, following Mr Anastasiades' decision, which he had given to Prime Minister Tsipras at their meeting. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press releases, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A specific study was carried out on the contribution of ten million, which can also be done fourteen, for a hospital in East Attica. There was consultation with the Minister of Health here. All the meetings took place and this project proceeds to take place in the facilities of Daou Pentelis, if I'm not mistaken, Minister. There has already been agreement on this international offer and there has also been a first agreement with Qatar, which was also prepared to give a large sum of money as they were saying. The debates have been held and this large donation has to be exploited. A number of hospitals cannot be made, but it would be meaningless to become a special large wing of this new hospital, without needing additional processes, on the footsteps of the already small capacity in Daou Penteli. So that is what I understood from all this experience in this committee. I repeat that there may have been delays in the pace, there may have been some blemishes or even disagreements between institutions. For example, the Minister knows about this plot, Mr Spirtzis, that there was some weakness of the companies and inability to finance that he would have authorised for the fourth time - it was not that they had left it in the first place - to complete the project, but it was a transparent, good management, in a proper way, without needing these additionals, which are at the core of this legislation today. I wish you, from the heart, to thrive in favour of the people and people where they experienced this insurmountable tragedy. This experience was publicly obligated to testify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Economou, do you want to do the improvement of the title of the bill now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u109	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u110	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u111	I would like to propose that the title of the bill add 'and other provisions', because there is the provision of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u112	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, after three and a half hours of meeting, will we not finally join the list of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u114	Mr Vlavo, although you are the next speaker, I can tell you this. There are two factors in the procedure and you know that, because you are an old parliamentarian: first of all, the Bureau, which determines the order of the speakers and, from there on, a series of either governmental or parliamentary representatives or the heads of the parliamentary groups, which, under the Rules of Procedure, have the privilege of taking the floor whenever they want to. While I fully agree with you, you have seen what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u115	Some Members could also speak in the intervening period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u116	We're moving on. Now we're done with this. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would say, my dear colleague, Mr Vlao and Mr President of the Committee on Production and Trade, that when the Minister has spoken and issues have been raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u118	I'm not questioning your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u119	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But you cannot because it is by the Rules of Procedure. It is important here that we can make an exchange of views, because we too want to contribute with our reservations and our remarks. So the Rules of Procedure have their own philosophy. To God, the right of Members, anyway, is inalienable and we always try to be positive and parliamentary. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that, in discussing today this draft law, we can but respectfully stand in the memory of the dead, sensitive to their families for their heavy loss, with particular sensitivity to the problems that people continue to face and the need to rebuild the region. At the same time, however, we must be honest, not to make political exploitation and to see exactly how things have been and all the very great, coordinated and unprecedented effort that has been made over the past period by the previous government of SYRIZA. He doesn't raise political exploitation. Mr Hatzidakis said that he does not raise a micropolitical issue and I believe that we, our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, all of the SYRIZA colleagues who participated in the very interesting and constructive, Minister, debate in the Committee on Production and Trade, have shown just this feeling of responsibility, as we did not attempt any political controversy, but we have tried above all with our experience - the positive - but also the problems, the lessons, so that there is as quickly and effectively a reconstruction and rehabilitation of these regions as possible. This is what we are doing and it appeared here too, even though the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, unfortunately, had not taken such a stand from the post of Officer of the New Democracy. He had followed the logic of political exploitation and controversy. The debate that took place in the committee, in the presence of the bodies - and here we must note something that I believe was very constructive - and the representatives of the inhabitants of these regions were very important. First of all, the representatives of the inhabitants themselves have told us that we do not want to make political controversy here, that is not what we are asking for. It's natural, above all, that they care about the result. So they themselves recognised the institutions, the authorities and the inhabitants of these regions, the very important work that was done and the support they had received from the government in the previous period and of course asked for this effort to continue in the future. So our remarks and reservations are precisely to strengthen the effectiveness and common goal we have, to bring this region up in the best possible and fastest way and, of course, to relieve and vindicate all the needs and problems of the people affected, who have lost their property and have mourned people in their family. In this regard - and we mentioned before - we would first of all expect the government to make even the formal recognition in the explanatory statement and in the accompanying reports, because even there is only one law - not the other two - and of course the many regulatory acts that have been adopted. The most crucial thing, however, is - and I would also like to stand here, our rapporteur and the former President of Parliament, have been mentioned - that of course direct action has been taken, but also long-term action. The former Minister, Mr Xanthos, has said to the committee - and it will then be mentioned, because the current Minister for Health has also referred to it - that there has been a direct mobilisation of the National Health System, a direct coverage of all people, firefightings and burns, and then a very large support, even with an additional allowance of EUR 6 000. The former Minister, Mr Famelos, has also mentioned, and he will then speak, like our rapporteur, Mr Spirtzis, in the enormous effort that has been made in the area. Mr Hatzidakis previously questioned the procedure with regard to the special spatial area for this region. I would like to point out that not only has it not been delayed, but all the procedures for the necessary dialogue and preparation that had to be carried out in time and long before the elections have been adopted. So it is not that it has not been approved and the required procedures have not been carried out. And much more here, Minister, we must also have some answers from you, because Mr Hatzidakis has made a general position, but he has not covered us in a number of issues. This assignment to the Technical Chamber - first of all, let me remind you that we are calling for the draft convention to be kept, I believe that the House must have information on such a sensitive subject, so this is the first issue that we are continuing to address - how exactly will it function on the basis of the approved spatial plan, which has been carried out on the basis of a specific procedure, which has also been involved by officials who are now strengthening your own effort? I imagine that the right logic of making use of the continuity of administration and all these efforts that have been made is to take into account and be the basis for any follow-up. We therefore expect a clear answer from your side on both of these issues. The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, has mentioned - and I think that this is a very important report, because from this step forward, impressions have been created - in Mr Mitsotakis' denunciation in the programme statements, that I have only given the special account money that the previous government had foreseen. Mr Spirtzis was clear that the provision was EUR 170 million, of which a very large part has already been disbursed and implemented. Therefore, impressions should not be created. Here we are to contribute, to have transparency and to restoring all these issues. So - and I come now to the draft law - when we raised a number of issues, Minister, in committee, we did so to help, in order to ensure transparency, healthy competition and respect for national and European law over contracts and all these issues of awards. It is not because we want to create obstacles and delays. Which government wants to be late? It is because we know very well from our experience that, when we are not formal, the appeals and the problems that then arise create much worse delays and ultimately there is a cost from this whole process. I am pleased - and I think that this is a good thing, and there is also a good mood and the importance of hearing the bodies - that some of the issues that we have raised have been taken into account. I would point out that you have listened to the President of the Court of Auditors, removed from the Board of Directors - and rightly because it was unconstitutional - the involvement of a representative and also mentioned it and the Minister clearly said that there will be pre-contractual and repressive control. I understand that you do not have it in legal improvements, because you consider it a general principle. However, because it was an ambiguity, which is very critical and because we are going to a process which, yes, will have a negotiation procedure from what we have understood, but call for a reason of urgency, we would like to have a clear reference to the draft law. Don't stay with the general provisions. We're not having an intent trial. At a time when you and the Minister responsible, Mr Hatzidakis, said that you accepted the pre-contractual and repressive control of the Court of Auditors, I would ask you to have a clarification of the legal form because, unfortunately, there are exceptions at the moment in the bill. I'm continuing with the company you've set up. We still don't have a clear picture of the company shape. We are waiting for an answer to that. You said the statute was incorporated. That's what I understood from the Minister. What does that mean? The board of directors is the company's company's company scheme? As we told you in committee, because this is where the rules of the corporation apply, the members of the board of directors are personally responsible for all damages with their entire property. So this is where you put representatives of volunteers and residents. These people are anxious and said so in committee. We don't want to cause problems. You must, however, safeguard what you yourself create and make clear in the House what is the company shape and exactly how it will work. This is therefore the third and very important question to which we are waiting for an answer. Fourth question, Minister, to which we would like a clarification. This company won't have any staff, it won't have any management. Who's going to make all these negotiations? Who's gonna make the announcements? Who's gonna control? Who will have all this administrative responsibility? This is a crucial issue. You're going to assign it to Ministries? The departments of the ministries have another way of operating. Critical questions that we are still waiting for from you, and we hope to have a concrete answer. As far as the Technical Chamber of Greece is concerned, the reservations we have and the objections are strong and that is not because we question the institution. He said Mr Spirtzis - who has served as President and as he said the Chamber loves, but he also knows the possibilities - that the technical service has a limited degree of ability to respond to such a large project, which needs to be assisted by so many ministries and services so that it can be implemented. So we would like more clarification here and how you see the Technical Chamber, with what guarantees it can take to this role. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with one general comment. We are living at a time with climate change, with new data, which, unfortunately, we are obliged to review a great deal of our constant concepts, in terms of planning civil protection, responding to natural disasters and fires and restoring all these areas. It is clear that we must have a new national preparedness plan. I would like to say, however, that all these plans, both for development and all, must be made in the light of the great sensitivity to the environment and, of course, to the social fabric of the respective regions. And I am saying this because these days - although we have learned yesterday that these amendments are being withdrawn - a number of regulations on the cavalry and on the beaches and a number of other issues which have caused us a great deal of anxiety. The lesson I think, with a very great sense of responsibility, which everyone, as a National Representation and as a political world, should also be a lesson from the tragedy in Eye, it should be a lesson to the full restoration of the region there and of the people, but also from our general development planning, which certainly cannot but take into account the new climate risk that we now face as a humanity, but also the specialities that we face as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u120	Mr Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Adamopoulou, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today in the Greek Parliament about one of the most beautiful regions of Attica. We are talking today and we remember the hundreds of our fellow citizens who have lost their lives all of a sudden. We are talking today about our wounded fellow citizens, who are fighting their own battle every day, to deal with the difficulties that this wound has caused. We are talking about a damaged area, let me say, a bombed landscape. That's the essence, and that's the reality in the area. But since this conversation takes place fourteen months after that nightmare night, it makes sense that the responsibilities are charged to the previous government. There are responsibilities first of all because it has not separated ineffective management - for which everyone admits that there are political responsibilities and I will not go any further, it is not my intention - with the reconstruction of the region. You remember that in the first few days those strange days, about how the fire started, that it was arson, that it was the arbitrary construction that people burned and all. These created a confusion. It starts the scene today and clears up. So there is fire management, which we are not discussing at all today, as to whether there are responsibilities, justice and so on. - but it is not a court, the House, we judge politically - and there is also the initiative to do with reconstruction. We must all stand by it and not be flattered over all the matter, as has been said earlier, because the Rules of Procedure enable us to discuss everything we want every time. There are responsibilities, therefore, for delays mainly in logging, in cleaning the area, in removing booms, in the asbestos. There are delays in demolition. There are responsibilities because the competent authorities in the region have not been involved as they should. There are responsibilities because the well-known - as we have said - were not created to face up to the winter of last year, and we are going to the second winter. There are responsibilities because he has as many times as he has gathered such a quantity of fuel on the known land and throughout the summer there has been the heartbeat in the region - especially the inhabitants of New Buja, but not only - that at any time we may have a new tragedy. This plot has been cleared. And since we're saying now because he's emptyd and questions were asked in the House about where this fuel was going and how we managed it, because Mr. Spirtz said, and I didn't understand exactly when it happened, but in any case, he cleared the known plot sometimes in the past...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u122	Three more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u123	Three more you say. Maybe we'll get confused 'cause he was filling up fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u124	Three more and yours is the fourth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u125	I won't question that. It was soon filled and no one understood whether it had taken time to pass, whether it was old or new. I really wanted you to let us know where this fuel went.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u126	Where the Forestry told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u127	So it went...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u128	Where the Forestry indicated to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u129	So it wasn't removed from the area. He went there somewhere. That's what I understood. In any case, the things that have been removed from the workshops, the harvesting products, I had the information that they are heading to the Grevenes to be sold for fuel. In fact, it was circulating - and I can't control it all, we Members hear various evidence - that their payment was firewood. In any case, however, we are saying today that in this area the felling has not finished. Do you want to get into percentages and in which areas, if it's in urban tissue, if it's somewhere else? It's important that we're going for the second winter, and the logging's not over yet. No "clad dams" have been built and it may be that last winter's problems have not caused very great problems, they have certainly created problems, but no one knows what winter is going to be like and what problems will be created. SYRIZA's colleagues have also tried to present a good picture to the committee. Even in the presence of the representatives, who live their reality, their everyday life, an unofficial controversy has been made about how things are. Regardless of what I'm going to say, what anyone will say, who can be a bad-willing person, a visit to the area records the real situation. And you see that basically life stopped in this area on the night of July 23, 2018. From there on, there are initiatives either from clubs or with the help of individuals or some initiatives taken by the Ministry. We never said nothing happened. We didn't say that a year you were spectators. We said, however, that things did not run at the rate that you had to have and the rate that you promised in the first few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u130	In relation to other natural disasters, in rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u131	Of course, in restoration, because there was also evidence heard today by the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, which we all have, and there is no point in feeding the House with evidence of how many demolitions there are. I told you a visit there might unravel everything. And in all the memos we took from the bodies in the committee, however, they all have requests. If these problems had been solved, we would obviously not have had this body of requests as if we were starting from scratch. I must remind you - I do not want to personalise it under any circumstances - that I tabled in April, following an initiative that I took for a conference in which all the institutions heard, a timely question with too many points. These points I am saying in the question: demolitions, foresting, logging, asbestos, planting, infrastructure, streams, allowances, coastline erosion, multiple indivisible property, demarcation of fire, funding, there were existing problems in April and the government replied to me that there is no Ministry responsible for answering them. I was recommended to address it to three ministries. I asked three topical questions, both in the Infrastructure and in the Regional Planning and Environment and in the Interior. No, no one's been discussed. Those who were scheduled on the stay were cancelled. That's the reality. And now you come to the committee and tell me that it was in your eyes, that you had planned it, that you had solved it. Why didn't you come and tell me to the House as a government that you've done it? I have the question here. That's the reality. So today, we're turning around. The government's bringing in an initiative. I don't know if that's the ideal. But if you have anything else to suggest, we have to say it now, it is not the committee. Many questions you ask about the functioning of this AMD obviously exist. We all have it and we want it to work effectively, and we have to agree that many issues that this committee will find in order to solve want a cross-party cooperation. Here, Minister, you will find matters of property in front of you. That's not how they solve it. You will find land use issues, you will find dirt delimitation issues, you will find themes for identifying the cavalry coastline. These are not solved, because these problems exist throughout Greece and throughout Attica that I know of. There are also in the affected area. They must be resolved in this area, so that we can have a solution guide for other areas as well. So there must be a cross-party consultation here. I don't know how you'll anticipate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u132	Let's get a little closer to time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u133	I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. And other things I wanted to say, but I can't, I understand that. So there must be a consensus so that we can find solutions, because otherwise I am afraid - and I am closing with this - that we will be here very soon and in time, and we will be discussing about the same things, because we will not all be able to get rid of bureaucracy and all the weaknesses that have so far been identified, because almost all of us have been through governments and have not been able to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. Mrs Adamopoulou, the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, and then Mr Apostolos. Here, you have the floor for twelve minutes, Mrs Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a PART25, we welcome the bill under discussion in principle, as it is such a sensitive social issue of rehabilitating the firefighting victims. Of course, we believe that these measures should have been the prime concern of the government and not first of all to promote the bills by means of the so-called urgent procedure. In any case it is a good one, a welcome initiative, but there is no shortages and failures. So let's start with Article 1. As our rapporteur has pointed out, you are talking about removing these dangerous materials, but you do not specify all these materials, once they are removed, where they will be placed. A small debate was held just now between Mr Vlachos and Mr Spirtzi. Mr. Spirtzis was asked where these materials were placed. The government should have already studied this issue and not this dialogue, we should now try to resolve these questions. In any case, this omission is dangerous and contradictory in the spirit of the legislative act, because we know that these materials are particularly polluting. In relation to Article 1(2) that all necessary studies, projects and services will be carried out on own resources by natural or legal persons, without any public burden: this is a clear civil responsibility for the public. Mr Spirtz also said that there was no necessary planning and Mr Voutsis said that in any case there were public responsibilities. So why should individuals be charged with such a matter, for which the public is responsible? Here's the question. And who are these individuals? It has not been clarified whether the government has already been in contact with some. In other words, we are relying on solidarity, once again, by individuals who have no responsibility for an issue on which the government should have made a central planning. It was reported that there was this central planning from the previous government. I do not understand whether this central fund that was planned is currently being used by the current government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no. He's taken back 10 million for HISBIA, but that was a gift free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u137	In any case, because the representative of the New Democracy has referred to micro-partyism, I think that if this plan of the previous government was effective and practicable, this inter-party consultation should have taken place, and not at the moment, to make some solutions with private individuals, which do not even guarantee the principle of transparency. These procedures are not transparent and we cannot tell whether the state budget itself will be charged with the agreements with the private sector. In Article 2, in the last paragraph, it states that any issue concerning the operation, purposes, resources and financial management of the company is regulated by a decision of the Prime Minister. We believe that at this point again we are in the well-known pattern of the state of service. Again, we think the Prime Minister is being given overpower. What is the point then of involving residents and municipalities? It is already foreseen that the Board of Directors will be composed of representatives of the General Accounting Office of the State, of the Ministries of Transport, Infrastructure, Environment, Representatives of the Technical Chamber. What purpose, then, is this pre-centralised management of the matter, when it comes to an issue that can, because it is of the public interest, be dealt with over-grouply and collectively? Our next comment is that Article 2(8) provides that the legislation on the award of service or supply contracts is not applicable, and the same is laid down for the prudential control of the Court of Auditors. We understand, of course, that a direct mobilization must take place because of the urgency of the whole arrangement. The delays should be avoided so that those affected can be restored. However, we must take serious account of the bad precedent from the Molyviats Fund for the firemen of Elijah. These are the so-called'student lessons of common experience', where there have been delays and mismanagement. A significant degree of transparency should therefore be ensured. You are talking about exceptions to public procurement legislation. And here is the question: is Article 18 of the relevant Law 4412/2016 excluded, which speaks of the principles governing public procurement, such as obligation to provide transparency, proportionality, protection of the public interest, freedom of competition, protection of the environment, sustainable and sustainable development? It is not even foreseen, according to Article 118, that direct awards can be made, but that the Minister has been mentioned in summary invitations. Why not direct awards, but concise tenders and how concise will the tenders be? On the contrary, direct awards also include some publicity and transparency, and in any case do not cost. Even the amendment that came a moment ago specifically says that these contracts will be awarded by way of derogation from the established provisions of public procurement law and that the exceptional provisions of Union law will be used. We would just like to clarify here, in what specific directive you are talking about, and in any case we consider that Union legislation does not derogate from the principles governing public procurement. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, we believe that it has the necessary, essentially and institutional guarantees, to prevent any suspicions being made. Why, as is its competence, should these dossiers not be promoted as a priority? Why, until the end of the actions, should some of the Court of Auditors not be appointed alternate members to be responsible for the rapid liquidation and rapid screening of these cases? We therefore believe that, as Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulou rightly pointed out, there should be a specific clarification on the Court of Auditors. For Article 2(1), I will make a simple recommendation. It's not exactly correcting or some very measurable element. We believe that the initiative on the register of burns and the disposal of all kinds of medicines, preparations, etc. is very correct. It would, however, be particularly useful and very important for the whole of society, such a standard arrangement for free health care, as is the case with chronic illnesses, those suffering from chronic diseases. In other words, we believe that the state would act more proactively with that logic. In Article 2(4) and in Article 5(2), why should the audit be carried out by sworn auditors of the selection of the chairman of the Committee or of the Minister of Finance, respectively, when we could assume that both of them can gain an interest in such a choice? We therefore propose - it is a proposal - that the Chamber should draw up a draw between all the auditors of Attica, and then the auditors should be appointed by a ministerial decision, but that is, in essence, a simple accreditation administrative act. In Article 3, it has already been demonstrated by the act that the choice for a balanced number of board members and the quorum is incorrect. This is how we perpetuate a practice that has been shown to be critical, because we end up with the President's double vote in the event of a tie. We therefore propose that the total members of the board should become fifteen and nine, so that the will of the board of directors can be reflected more democratically. Finally, we have seen no provision that provides for administrative responsibilities and also criminal clauses for members of the board of directors in the statutes, due to delays or misimplementation of the project. Not even provided for the deadline within which the work should be delivered by the company. So the bad precedent from the Molyviat Treasury and all this responsibilities, which occurs on board board members, which obviously if there were any such criminal clauses and administrative responsibilities, would not be acceptable to them to be members themselves, should this logic of disciplinary action at some point be eliminated. On the other hand, there is provision for a solution to the company and even before the time has elapsed for which the company has been set up and for a great reason, even if the company has not served its purpose. In any case, the responsibilities - we know that - cannot be attributed to the members when there have been reasons for force majeure. We are clearly talking about mismanagement, maladministration, delays and defects. Finally, Mr President, as we are well aware, the Mera25 Parliamentary Group confirms the expectations not only of our voters but also of the Greek people for a serious and constructive opposition. So we are here today, actively and responsibly, but also positively, towards this act of legislation, with the aim of restoring the victims and improving the lives of all of us. This is what we are doing in our attitude, in our proposals, and we therefore welcome this act of legislation in principle. But we are here for another reason to highlight the dangers. We are currently looking at interventions which will restore the results of a nightmare disaster in an area of the sea, with an unregulated structure. And we are discussing all this in the shadow of recent pro-government publications about the future of the Greek hayalus, a future which is particularly bleak for the many, for the place and very profitable for the few. Merra25 was, is and will be firmly in the front line for defending citizens' rights and above all for protecting the public interest and the natural environment of the country. So we are calling on all citizens and all political actors to be vigilant here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u138	Mr Apostle has the floor from SYRIZA, and then Mr Bukoros, a Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy, has asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, the fire in Matti, beyond the tragedy experienced by the relatives of the dead and the injured, brought us all to a truth. The truth is that there are many "Mathias" particularly in Attica. And it is true that these settlements developed others with legal, others with legalists and others with arbitrary procedures within forest lands. Unfortunately, there has been an environmental and spatial reality, established for decades, which is not to forget that it has your own governments at the time, Minister. But the question today is that this reality is hardly overturned. This means that conditions are specific, that special management plans are needed, because the existing biomass and accumulated fuel together with an extreme phenomenon may lead to ejection, similar to that made in Eye, of any fire. It must be understood, therefore, that regardless of whether the fire comes from an unknown cause, negligence or arson, it has a terrible potential for expansion and you must have planned and predicted how to deal with it. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, and above all the state, the urban and settlements of these areas and how many buildings of these settlements have been built. But the people inhabiting them got light, water, telephone, connected to the networks under the tolerance of the state. And that created another, settlement, too, reality. So we need to see how these problems are solved, starting first from the affected area, Matti. Many have entered the relevant debate with the residents' representatives at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade. Some of them stumble in environmental legislation and in particular in the case-law of the Council of State. We must, however, find a solution that can in fact not only be for Eye. We need to touch the solutions that we will find and the other 'Matthews'. So we also need to see the problem through this dimension. Not to do how we do not see it, not to say how it does not exist, because each one of these settlements wants a design, a treatment for how the protection is organized, how it is organized, how it is handled, how the emergency needs of the residents themselves are addressed. All this, ladies and gentlemen, means prevention, cleaning, anti-nuclear design, information and participation of the local community. However, it also means urban and spatial interventions which make these anti-nuclear actions effective. All this can be done in the context of the current legislation and the case-law of the JCC, as long as there is, of course, appropriate documentation. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy in Matti could not just be answered on two lines. That is why the then Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, as the former President of the House, Mr Voutsi, has also given the Gondamer team, in which Greek scientists participated, to draw a conclusion on the next day of civil protection and, in particular, forest protection, raised the issue in the front line. The conclusion, delivered in February 2019, records the pathogens and causes of fires in Greece and proposes legislative arrangements for the radical reorganisation of the Civil Protection Mechanism and a more general framework of proposals for the prevention and prevention of destructive fires. What have we, ladies and gentlemen, done as a government, beginning with the current anti-nuclear period? We started implementing the programme with two important decisions. The first was the restoration of the Forest Service. We've been through this a thousand times. It was a crimeful transfer of fire extinguisher exclusively to the firefighting station, effectively throwing out the Forest Service, prevention from local communities. The second decision was to increase the financing of prevention. The current government must understand that there are fires and there will be fires in our country. What we must take seriously is to deal with them effectively, which means leaving the communication tactics, the mammothry, which is particularly happening in every incident of fire, and to bend to the solution we can give. This solution exists in the conclusion that I have told you before. It is a conclusion which we started to implement. So take it, too, and you and continue to implement it and not let the opportunity go wasted. Because once, in 1993, a unanimous finding of a similar intergroup committee of Parliament in 1998, the then PASOK government threw it into the bucket of unusables. That is why we are telling you, if you want a consensus on this matter in particular, that you re-orientate the fire-fighting model, but above all in the direction of the conclusion. We are with you in this effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u140	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, I think we all agree that it is not for easy words or for political controversy. What happened after the catastrophic phenomenon and what will be done in the future is in the crisis, to paraphrase the lyrics of Kostis Palamas, the dead and the unborn in the sense that any intervention which is now to be made should be aimed at minimising the possibility of such tragedy being repeated. We are also talking about an area that has experienced a totalitarian disaster and about citizens living in an unspeakable tragedy. I am pleased to see a consensus on the whole political spectrum, even if it is the attitude to criticism - it is in the role of the opposition to criticise and control - I am therefore in the climate of consensus. This is the case with the experts themselves, and I do not want to talk about the disaster itself, about the findings, about the investigations that have been carried out. I would say, however, that it is rather inappropriate to raise a cause and degrade some other. In other words, I hear here from the representatives of the counter-population that the lack of planning in the region was the only cause of this disaster. If we wanted to oppose the opposition, as SYRIZA used to be when it was government, we would say that the wrong assessment of the course and extent of the fire was just as important a cause for the disaster. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the fire first of all struck a built settlement, New Vuja where there were many roads, where there was the possibility of restraining the fire before it went through the other areas, before it backed up Marathon Avenue, which always existed and acted as an anti-nuclear zone in that area, before it went through, so this destructive fire in areas where other areas were flooded and not others and caused the hundred victims we are all talking about. Why do you know our difference to the opposition? You oppose and prejudge that phenomena of inefficiency and opacity will be recorded in policies to be implemented. We could criticise you on policies that have been implemented and ask you what was the fate and if there are tables detailed for the woody capital of the areas that have been fell, we could ask you why you have allowed them to confiscate burn subsidies, why it has been impossible because of the lack of a record of burns being absorbed - problematic and ultimately incomplete - about the donation of the Bank of Cyprus to the victims and we could ask you a lot of other things about policies that have been implemented. However, we must remain in this climate of consensus and productive dialogue and exchange of views, just as it has been in the committees with the remote involvement of the citizens of the region and of the regions, because the previous one, the government which has been outgoing has been judged and the effectiveness of our own government will be judged on such a very strict matter. As it now concerns the offer for the healing of wounds and the solidarity shown by the Greek people, I would like to say that it is unfair to say that the solidarity account was created only by the money of the Parliament, the Bank of Greece and the OAED and some private offers of 2 million. If we look at it closely financially, that's what happened. Who, however, can ignore the millions of euros granted by private companies either for the felling or for other necessary projects that had to be done at the time and, above all, who can ignore the enormous wave of solidarity between the Greek people with thousands of tons of food and medicines which, if taken into account, could be worth a lot more tens of millions over many months of drugs, food, first-time items, clothing, bedrocks. From a tip to Greece, these materials were bought with money from Greek citizens. So it cannot be said that the offer is one-sided and only of a state character. And because I happened to visit the area many times, people know what they say? That what the private enterprises or the private initiative have undertaken has been quickly and efficiently completed and what the Greek State has undertaken - and I am not only talking about the previous government - has been delayed. That's what people say. However, to come to the provisions of the draft law, I would say that three issues arise: firstly, the creation, the role, the object and management of the Urban Non-Profit Company, AMKE, secondly, the involvement of the Technical Chamber and its role, and thirdly, the benefits, financial assistance, aid, and, if you like, the medical treatment of burners, which I do not think anyone disagrees with in this Chamber and I will therefore not touch on. It is absolutely essential that the register is created and that all these people have financial support, medical care and all that is necessary. So we should go to the establishment of the Urban Non-Profit Character, AMKE. I would say that I am amazed that the political forces, which have been nurtured by slogans and ideas of popular participation, are reacting to residents' participation in dealing with a matter that concerns themselves. I would say, indeed, that the management board is composed by a majority of representatives of civil society, but it is rightly involved in this, with bodies with great experience, such as municipalities, the region and the relevant ministries. So, what do we have here? We have the people who have been affected by the problem, we have the bodies that have the expertise and experience and we also have the ministries that have the political responsibility. That is why I have listened with interest to the representatives of the outgoing government and today's Civilian Vice-President saying about both legislative acts and the seventeen government interventions, whether in the form of ministerial decisions, regulatory decisions or anything else. We believe, however, that our own policy for dealing with and restoring is more holistic. The initiatives of the previous government were scattered and therefore ineffective. The local residents now, with the establishment of this company, acquire a reference centre that operates in coordination, but will also carry the problems to the relevant ministries and to the relevant departments in a more and more effective way. That is what we believe to be the difference in our policy. As far as the participation of the Chamber of Technical Chambers is concerned, it was somewhat questioned whether it was possible to implement its content. The debate that took place in the committee in the presence of the chairman of the Chamber of Technical Chambers was given assurances that he can carry out the work. He's a prestigious scientific body, and he's also the state's technical consultant. From there on, I would say about what the Minister said today in his position that there will be both preventive and repressive control over all contracts, that I think it is a protection shield to limit phenomena that the opposition sees as happening, prejudicing the future and the functioning of these institutions. The President of the TEI himself said that the study on the local spatial plan would not exceed 500,000 euros. Why? Because he'll use a multitude of qualified volunteer engineers. From there on, on the subject of procurement, I think that all the issues have been answered. As for the responsibility of the citizens, I will only point out one thing, that their conviction is firm and their will strong that the citizens themselves have to take part in this institution, because in the last year they have recorded some delays. Nobody's said nothing's happened in the past year. But everyone says that things could get faster and more effective. The current government is producing a holistic, as I said, policy to bring about rapid results, presents a plan, accepts all the improvements proposed and submits a specific timetable for the implementation of this plan. I think that all this is binding. We don't have to rush. The plan and the government's policy will be judged very quickly. There is the comparison of the previous year. In any case, it is an urgent situation. We cannot say on the one hand that the lack of spatial planning is the cause of the disaster in this region and, on the other hand, that there is no urgent need for the spatial plan to be drawn up. That's contradictory. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that this policy within the framework of today's draft law aims at two things, namely full restoration, healing the wounds that this unprecedented catastrophe has left behind, in particular the involvement and the object of the Technical Chamber in the preparation of policies that will minimise the repetition of such tragedies in future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a bill today, which is essentially the ratification of an act of legislation, which should normally have been implemented, on the occasion of a tragic event for Greece, for the Greek people. The hundred deaths were the result of many factors, of course, but also of wrong choices and manipulations from the point of view of certain people. In these cases usually come the responsible ones or people who are close to those responsible to talk about the system, say that it is the system’s fault. And so, fine, the responsibilities and faces that they have are washed away, but the problem remains. Yes, the institutions, mechanisms, the structures of the state need a continuous improvement, constant care to be able to upgrade and respond to the conditions, as is the system of civil protection in our country. However, the current system at all times has people - keys to operate and in this particular case they have not worked. It did not work as neither the municipality nor the municipalities, nor the district, the district authority nor the district manager concerned should. There are specific responsibilities, as are the responsibilities which exist, of course, in the fire brigade and in the police and other state mechanisms. But they're not impersonal. The fact that the Greek Police at some point with or without its own responsibility was sending people to the risk area, to the'red', that is not something that can go through this way. I assume that the relevant investigations will be carried out. However, I can see from the publicity and information that many exemptions have been made on this subject. In the end it will be the sea that was close. The government must also examine and give answers. We need to see the conclusion of the committee which has to do with the mechanism, because, as I said at first, there is a need to continuously improve the mechanisms and update the capacities of the Greek state's structures and services, whether they concern self-government, or agencies. We need to see that finding presented, but it stayed in the air for what needs to be improved and what needs to be changed. Of course, the Greek Government will have to see what is going on with the exercise of responsibilities. Only I have to point out here that the New Democracy Government, at the very first time, has blurred the message of whether it wants to be responsibilities, since it started by using people who, when the problem was unfolded - and in itself - had enormous responsibilities. The Chief of ELAS was chosen by the government of Mr. Mitsotakis as Secretary General of the Ministry. Well, should we at least not, since he chose him for the competent Ministry of Civil Protection, complete the process that has to do with this disaster and with the death of more than a hundred people? Wasn't there the admonition to say that in advance no one is guilty, but because the chief of police who has responsibility is the person in question, should we wait for the investigation to be terminated to use it? So why is he using him? To say he's a little aside in relation to responsibilities? And that's not all that's done, 'cause you're gonna tell me now, it's the chief's fault? The trolley's done it, they'll say. He will find his trouble, the trochomont there on Marathon Avenue, which has turned for many more. I am referring to this as an example. We have learned in the past days that the government has chosen another person, a close associate of the SYRIZA government, for another structure, for another agency, for the EAW. So the government chose someone who was adopted by SYRIZA - a neo-democrat was man - because he obviously did his work through him and who played his role in the critical evening. He was the man who came out and said that "we didn't talk about the dead, because he's only whoever is certified by the coroner". For mismanagement that night he wanted to be king of either the king of Polakis, Tsipras or anyone. I don't care about faces. I am interested overall in the SYRIZA - ANEL government, which was responsible at that time. He went out and said that unbelievable, that the burnt man, the burnt man, who's taken to the hospital isn't dead until the coroner goes, which can be done after two days. Let him say "the ones allegedly dead". But it wasn't the wrong thing to say. He was the man who came out to take the chestnuts out of the fire. And not just. I shall also put forward the photograph I have before me which the government cannot deny, because it is also from SCAI. If he starts to doubt SKAI, you understand! There are already some murmurs about the criticism of "Kathemerini", a newspaper that has serious writers and cartoonists who have received the government and its contradictions and criticize them. And some have started to leak from the government that "you know, some water does and he may want something" etc. At 1 o'clock at night, this gentleman said there were only two dead. I'm filing the photo in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above photo which, in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, provides for the administration of the Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] This gentleman is therefore placed, Mr Xanthi, by the Government of the New Democracy as commander of the EAW. It was until 2010. He was appointed on the eve of the end of 2014 by Mr. Vorides, as Minister of Health, President of the EMCDDA, to hold him for a period of six months - Mr. Kourublis - and then, assessing his potential and positive offer home, you put him the president of the EMCDDA. She returned it that night. I don't know if he'd returned any more things. We'll see. What message does the government want to give us with these two positions? What does the poet want to say? Are we covering everything that's happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u145	Should we wait for Mrs. Duru to join us? Can anyone answer us from the government? So there comes a bill - and I conclude, Mr President - that is trying to resolve urgent issues. SYRIZA said "we have happened at times and we have no responsibility". The decision 217 signed by Mr Stathakis for this region is well known. And, of course, the New Democracy Government is coming to cancel the role of self-government and region. Instead of giving specific policy implementation obligations to the municipality, the region and other state services, we are recommending an NGO. Okay. The government is setting up a non-governmental organisation, because it recognises that government organisations, state structures, that is, they cannot carry out a project. But that's not the way it is. We necessarily agree with the draft law on the prospect of resolving the issues that people have there, on the compensation and on all the other things they deserve, but we do not agree with that logic and that logic cannot be the norm, to establish a non-profit-making company that replaces municipalities, regions, organisations, the state itself, only because it happened to be incapable of the mayor supported by the New Democracy or the regional director supported by SYRIZA. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u148	I already gave you three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u149	Yeah, yeah. I'm just finishing up with the time you give me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u150	No, I didn't give you any more time. Tolerance has been shown by the Bureau for three minutes. You spoke seven minutes. Please! You are creating a problem both with colleagues and with the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, accept my proposal - which you did not accept at the Conference of Presidents - to automatically cut off the microphone. Thank you, Mr President. At a time when you have not accepted it, you cannot apply it. We've been through this. What do you want now, not to go on? Okay, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u152	Look, Mr. Kegeroglu. Excuse me, but time is seven minutes. The Bureau and the President-in-Office always, as I think - and there is no complaint - show tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u153	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u154	If you want me to enter for this, you will consume the seven minutes in history, to tell what you want to say, without at all catching the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u155	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u156	And after you finished the seven minutes, then you started putting yourself on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u157	But, two minutes, you guys are talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u158	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u159	Excuse me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u160	No, the two minutes I didn't remove them from you. Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis has the floor from 'Mera25'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a human tragedy, the greatest human tragedy in post-Culture, not only about the number of dead who are huge but also about the way they have lost their lives, about how people were injured. Faced with such a situation, there is no political exploitation. However, it is clear that this issue was a key issue in the election period. It is clear that there has been political exploitation and this is an insult to the memory of the victims. We welcome both the efforts of the previous government and today's efforts to relieve the victims. We will not stand by the measures taken. We will judge the proposals and things, based on whether they actually respect the memory of these victims. What respects the memory of the victims? It is, to prevent this disaster from happening again in any part of Greece. It is to prevent this disaster from recurring again in the same place, in Matti and in the neighbouring areas that have been burnt. It is, to alleviate the pain and difficulty, the physical injuries of the victims of the disaster. For the first time, not to repeat this disaster elsewhere, unfortunately the SYRIZA Government and the current New Democracy Government have not taken any substantial initiatives. It scares us as much as that makes us sad. As the Undersecretary of State yesterday in committee, we are well aware - and through the forest maps, which are the areas facing the same risks. What initiatives will the government take for them? We invite you to commit to specific timetables for specific disaster prevention actions before next summer. But we often forget that this disaster is a fire disaster. What measures will you take to change the prevention system and the fire control system in order not to repeat this situation? As to whether to avoid repetition in this area, in Eye and in neighbouring areas, we welcome the attempt to speed up procedures. But we are concerned for two reasons. We are concerned that the timetables presented do not seem realistic. Furthermore, the procedures proposed by way of derogation from the legislation leave room for corruption and degradation and the work produced. Measures shall be taken to relieve victims. However, the bodies and residents present and spoken in the consultation the other day have presented a series of omissions and delays that have been mentioned by previous speakers and I will not repeat them. There is therefore a long way to justify the victims. On the details of the bill, we reserve and we are concerned. It seems to be repeating this pattern of sloppiness. And it does not say 'Mera25'. The people said so in consultation. Now we understand why they passed four bills without consultation. You have built an urban non-profit company that will make necessary decisions and economic content. We are amazed that, although this government is against simple analogues, even though this government brings out four bills without consultation, even though this government is constantly bringing amendments that are late last minute so that there is no consultation within Parliament, suddenly five representatives of the population are involved in this NGO that is being set up. It surprises us. We, as ‘MERA25’, believe that the involvement of citizens in any decision on policy planning is essential, is the cornerstone of our programme. But you who do not believe it, put these people in an NGO, in which they will have an absolute responsibility against any phenomena of corruption - justice can also move against personal property - when in this NGO about the operation, purposes and resources, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Interior can decide at any time. In a way - and people have said so clearly in consultation - these residents will be hostages in there. And that must be avoided. With regard to the provisions that you have had to withdraw because they were void or constitutional, I will not have to go further, but I shall refer to the fact that you are closing the eye on some entrepreneurs. I asked the Minister to the committee where these twenty thousand tons of wood went. His answer was that they did go to a combustion plant. But he didn't tell us who. He didn't tell us which unit they headed to, which businessman. We learned from the inhabitants that these twenty thousand tons of wood were transported from four major construction companies to "Titana" to burn. Is that true? Why don't you reveal it? Why don't you say where they went? With what exchanges did this service become? Will these companies involved in the transport and incineration of waste in the PPPs? We need to know, to know what's waiting for the residents and what plans you've got. At the moment in the city of Volos, where the people are burning from the FYROM, the inhabitants live a life inviolable. Every night the city stinks of the smell of burnt plastic and dioxins. The medical association has filed a report to the D.A. Is this the future being prepared for the other regions of Greece, the western Athens, the Florida, Thessaloniki, Rhodes and the other regions? Show the names of your donors to Matty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u162	Mr. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss and ratify the act of legislation on the establishment and operation of the urban non-profit company 'Mati again', with our minds, minds and respect for those who have left but also those who have not left, but are still troublesome. I live and I'm elected in Eastern Attica. Every day, Matty is present in our area and its destruction, and not only in our region, but throughout Greece. The government's intention, he says, is to address immediate risks for residents, the residential and natural environment, following the national disaster in Matti Attica and the surrounding area, a disaster which has been worked by the current government, when it was a strong opposition, for micro-party purposes at the expense of human lives and property. I assumed that this story was over, as in the case of the Prespes, which after you had made all this fuss, you have lifted all this bracelet, now one is coming out, one minister after another, and one minister tells us how correct the Prespecies Agreement was, and that it must be supported and that the slightest letter and party and perfection must be realised. I have seen, however, that the Minister too, in a very mild way, but also other speakers in the New Democracy, continues to exploit this small-scale national tragedy. It is positive to continue the immediate actions of the previous government, which - I am sure will be told by Andreas Xanthos, who was Minister of Health at the time - has covered the costs of care up to treatment. Let us also remind ourselves of the direct allowance of six thousand euros, the supply of relatives of nurses and the absolute health coverage offered to our miserable fellow citizens, as well as a series of other provisions. However, to note that the company being set up, which raises funds from the private special fund for firefighting, says as purposes, things that have been done to the large majority. We still see this act of legislation coming down from the Ministry of the Environment, and the responsibility lies with the Ministry of Interior. The Minister told us in committee that the Ministry of Interior has the administrative responsibility. Funny things, as it is strange to get money from 30 million of the special account and take them as equity capital in a public limited company, a legal person, to manage private individuals. Government officials are also involved, but in a particularly problematic way. We'll talk about this later. In the committee we discussed the bill, the President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Theotokatos, revealed a number of problems in the composition of the company's board of directors. It made us clear that, instead of providing for transparency in the awards and seeking healthy competition, Article 2(8) and the explanatory memorandum and the text of the Act states that the contracts of the "Mati Again" company are not subject to the Court of Auditors' prudential control over public money. Suppose that's called good legality. This has been mentioned by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou. So there must be control and a clear reference to the legislation. Another problem: The board of directors of the company participates in the board of directors, but a judiciary with a degree of authority, such as a paternity, on the basis of Article 89 of the Constitution cannot participate in such a company, i.e. a company that manages public money and operates in accordance with the rules of the private economy. The presence of a judge on the board of directors is therefore inconsistent with his judicial status and, of course, cannot be the same person and auditor and audited. There are other strange arrangements. The establishment of a non-profit company is exempted from taxes, except for VAT, but the corresponding public-private institutions normally fall under tax provisions. I assume you didn't know when you wrote the act of legislation? This company still uses, as we said, a special firearm account money. We must therefore follow the code of public procurement, but that is not the case. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have received an effort from the SYRIZA government both in the field of health and in matters relating to the special spatial plan. We have heard here, when you referred to the special spatial plan, that nothing has started, as if nothing has happened. It's a misinformation. It's already been approved, and you know it. It is clear what the permitted land uses will be, what the building factors will be. On 22 May 2019, the entire project passed a unanimous decision by the Committee on Decentralised Administration for the General Spatial and Uses, in accordance with the Act. You still received a fund for the firefighting of thirty-seven million euros. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I don't have much time, but this whole story has something to do with the depreciation you want to bring to the public, that things have to work alongside private companies because the public is late, because the public can't, a state that you set up over the past decades with all its pathogens. The architecture of the legal status of the company "Mati again", as I had the opportunity to expose and quote the president's position, creates reasonable shortcomings. Is it possible to ignore such simple things, you ready to rule? Alas! I fear that your daily practice - from the Prime Minister's gave with the Parthenon sculptures to this act of legislation - shows a political force that was not ready to govern. Ready to appoint were her "children" and when these children were not qualified according to the law, instead of changing the child, you change the laws. Well done! We without any reluctances that described you as when you were opposition, will be here to put our backs on the right, but also to reveal instant puppies, like the ones I mentioned. If you want to honor the victims of Matty's national tragedy, deliver an act of legislation that is strong, fair and with all the provisions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u164	Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement, has the floor. Two speakers will follow and the Greek Parliamentary Representative will follow them. You have the floor, Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we want to congratulate and wish the Greek Commissioner, Mr Spinelli, good luck and good luck in taking up his duties, and first of all wishing to act as the country's representative to the European Commission, secondly as a representative of the Government and thirdly as a Greek who for many years has been ministering from high positions in the European Commission in this role. In any case, his role is very important and critical at a time that is very delicate economic, political and social for the European Union and for the European structure. We are talking today about a difficult bill, and I mean a difficult one, because the debate on the tragedy in Matti always rescinds our memory hard and tragic moments that we all want to forget, but they are not forgotten. In any case, it is a positive initiative which is now being ratified in the House. It is an initiative that cures problems, such as burners from fires, not only in Eye but also in previous and possible future fires, housing assistance, forced execution and too many issues that concern residents and which heal them. It is an initiative that is exhaustive with local bodies. Here I would like to praise the work of the chairman of the Committee on Production and Trade, Mr Vlachos, but also of Mr Spirtzi and of the other Members of the Eastern Attica who have shown that, beyond any conflicts, the problems are common and can certainly find solutions, because there is a common mood and this is the way, this is the way to give real solutions to the problems. Of course, it is an act that has a very ambitious timetable for implementation. I think that the issues of safeguarding legality have also been raised in committee. The Minister gave some assurances that there will be no issues of legality. This, of course, will prove to be along the way. This comes in a situation where there are delays in the implementation of the recovery plans, demolitions, rehabilitation applications and reconstruction permits. There have been things not in the way it should have been, not at the rate required by this unprecedented disaster. Of course, all this debate that reminds us of the tragedy in Eye is updating - and I think it is tragically timely - the need to prevent, timely intervention by the State in the fields of forest protection, fire protection and, of course, timely intervention during such phenomena, so that we do not have to discuss the healing of injuries from such tragic situations again. Of course, the bill may ease some problems for residents or relatives of the victims of the tragedy in Matti, but it does not ease the bad memory of all we have experienced. I am saying this because I am taking the opportunity of the reports made by the Interior Minister a week ago - if I am not mistaken, in New Makri - speaking of the timely intervention of regional self-government in the question of suppression. He even compared what didn't happen to Matty. Of course, the Minister did not tell us what happened a month ago either in the Region of Attica or in the Region of Central Greece. He has a selective memory. And, of course, from what the Prime Minister himself said on Saturday in his speech at the IGC, where he said that we did not mourn human victims this year. You say that is a matter of political leadership. I personally have not participated in any attempt to extinguish myself. I do not know whether any of my colleagues here have lived together with the firefighters, forest firefighters and volunteer firefighters in this difficult attempt to deal with and curb such an extreme phenomenon, but it restores to the debate the issue and the need to take responsibility for all those responsible for decision-making on similar phenomena. Kazantzakis says: "Love responsibility, say, I alone have a duty to save the land. If it is not saved, it is my fault." And, of course, this is timely, because we need to talk about the responsibilities of politicians, when we need to take painful decisions at all times for the benefit of the country and the nation, or when they need to assume their responsibilities when they make mistakes or unfair political persons, the responsibilities of the competent authorities when they have to defend the public interest, because they are moving on, even the responsibilities of the judges who often leave charges to be hung on without speed, indictments of time, corrosively about the dignity and consciousness of all those who are in the eye of the cyclone, unjustly in most cases and, of course, when it appears, very little publicity takes on this, but only the indictment gets the lights of publicity. So, in the memory of the victims and in the name of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, we need to look at the facts of the tragedy in Matti. On the eve of July 23, there is a warning for glowing winds in the middle of summer, so a great chance of fire. The Secretary-General for Civil Protection is outside Athens, the Deputy Eastern Attica is located outside the eastern Attica, the Mayor Marathonas is outside his municipality and all of this while there is an early warning that there may be a fire. The fire starts in Kinetta, after a few hours, and the fire headed to Matty begins. Just because it includes more than two municipalities, the Civil Protection Coordinating Body is convened...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u166	Three municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u167	That's right. More than two. Then he takes over from the district, over two, Mr. Spirtzi. The Civil Protection Coordinating Body is therefore convened. Significant? It is important, of course, because I would like to remind you that in the murderous fires in Elias in 2007, because this instrument was not convened at that time, and in the climate at that time, the antimony, the targeting of political persons, the responsible prosecutor was introduced twice life for all those who participated and did not convene this body. Take note now, at the same time, when the fire is unfolding, we see in the media that the region has convened a Political Protection Coordinating Body at 19.00 hours an hour. Of course, the institution is called upon to do so by the Vice-President, who is missing outside his region, so the Attica Regional Authority is sending it as the head of authority. Be careful now, the body meets in the absence of the District Attica. I don't know if he had anything more important to do at that time or if he had gone to the extinguisher attempt. A Civil Protection Body is therefore being convened, in which an appointed consultant is involved with a mandate from the district. I don't know if this composition is legal. I have strong reservations. This instrument - listen - listen! - does not take any decision, despite the fact that - as the then chief of firefighting revealed, three days later at the press conference held by Mr. Toska and Mr. Janakopoulos - he recommended the evacuation of the settlement twice. So this body, which was convened, never made a decision either to evacuate or not to evacuate. It was just a conversation and it was dissolved. In the next few days, unprecedented incidents were followed. We heard the Vice-President, who had returned in the meantime to Attica, saying that he gave an oral order to an mayor to evacuate his municipality. If it is possible to evacuate the municipalities by oral orders! We know very well that the procedure is specific, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why I am saying it. Firefighting assesses the risk situation and recommends to the Civil Protection Body. The Civil Protection Body chaired by the Vice-President or the District Administrator in the absence of the Vice-Regional Administrator shall take a decision and, if it takes a decision to evacuate, implement it and complete it by the Police. This is the series and sequence of decisions to be taken. So that never happened in the tragedy in Eye, and of course the competent judicial authorities have taken responsibility for it. But have all those who have imitated Pontius Pilates in this unprecedented national tragedy really assume their responsibilities? Mr. Kegeroglu said that before. The then Chief of Police with any responsibilities, Mr. Minister, has been rewarded by the Prime Minister and is being Secretary General for Civil Protection. The then president of the EMCDDA, who informed the Prime Minister and the Ministers, who were obviously misled, that they are not dead by 12: 30' in the evening, is being rewarded today and placed in a neural position. So taking responsibility is too big to make it into people who like positions of power, want to have government or other positions, but when it comes to difficult decisions, they just raise hands. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I find it extremely unfortunate that there is no reference in the report to the fires in Elias in 2007 and the fund set up at that time and that it has acted as a previous experience in similar phenomena. I consider it extremely unfortunate not to go further than this. And I say this because in Elias - the speaker of the Greek Solution said so - we had an unprecedented natural disaster with forty-nine dead, a fund that raised 208 million euros. For the EUR 47 million left, the government, as I said in the committee today, is still waiting to tell us where they are today and what purpose they will be allocated. Will they be made available and transferred to the account that is currently being created for the Eye? Yes or no? We want a straight answer to a straight question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I say this because the Prime Minister himself, indeed as Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, had taken the initiative and visited Elias in November 2007. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has drawn up a report on disasters and what needs to be done to regenerate the region. So I am sure it also has a particular sensitivity to this issue. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the wish that the National Representation should never have to hold a similar meeting on a similar subject. I hope not that the suffering will become a lesson, but the reflexes of the state and the preventive actions that need to be carried out in agreement with all the parties, that they will be launched and implemented so that we will never have to retrospectively come to heal wounds, which unfortunately are not heal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u168	Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about fourteen months ago East Attica experienced an unprecedented disaster and Greece was a national tragedy. Over a hundred burnt people, ashes, entire settlements and areas, ashes the natural environment, ashes whole, but mainly the souls of all of us and especially those who survived the fire nightmare and those who witnessed the facts. And if they are still alive in collective memory those moments, just as alive are the despair, anger and anguish of the inhabitants for the future of the region where the murderous fires caused and government negligence and slander. The state's task is to stand side by side and help effectively and quickly the affected, promote political and tangible works that will ease pain and give new prospects and hope to the place. This is what the Government of New Democracy is already doing, far from the miserable up to and away from the decency of the affected and the common sense of communication show of SYRIZA, away from the so-called impoverished widows who then accompanied a prime minister to isolation, away from irony for money that is not given to the affected because they will eat them. The deadlocks of the inhabitants in the burnt eastern Attica are not colored, and the New Democracy did not come to the country's rule to see but to act and resolve. We have already moved in this direction through the legislative act of 24 July to take steps to address the immediate risks and needs in the regions of eastern Attica affected by last year's murderous fires. We have thus given the signal that the immediate risks for residents in the residential environment, due to the persistence of waste, waste and other dangerous materials, will be addressed and defeated. Actions were taken at the same time to ensure people's health, protect the environment and avoid such tragic events for the future. Today, one and a half months later, we do so and at the same time we are adopting all the measures necessary for the renewal of the burning land and for the relief of firefighting inhabitants. What are these measures about? To self-evidently. It goes without saying that the previous SYRIZA government has unfortunately whistled indifferently. These are the removal of waste, waste and all dangerous materials from the fire-fighting areas to be collected, as they are absolutely dangerous both for public health and for the possibility of a future fire. This will now be done quickly without the burden of the public, but even by means of a private initiative approved by the relevant ministries. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the plot in Matti, on which more than twenty-five thousand tons of burned trees and branches were recently cleaned, was already cleared. Of course, the bill also includes a package of measures to relieve the firemen affected in Eye, because the human soul, addressing human suffering and people's daily needs are always a priority. To this end, this draft law provides not only for the extension of the suspension of auctions until the end of July 2020, not only for the extension of the deadline for submission of applications for housing assistance until 10-8-2020, not only for the restoration of the area and the legal fence by the Firearms Special Account, not only for the immediate award and completion of the required contracts for the intended actions, the costs of which are borne by the special account, but primarily for the establishment of a register of burns from forest fires and for their full health coverage by the EEAS for the granting of all kinds of medicines, preparations, property, special clothing, and home care and treatment. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and, Mr Kritsis, even burn creams, because it is the least that the Greek state owes the survivors wounded and especially the fifty-eight heavy burns of the murder fire. And certainly this draft law, as it should, goes a step further than planning and creating a healthy and safe natural and settlement environment by resolving the relevant urban problems for decades. This is why the Technical Chamber of Greece is tasked with drawing up a new spatial plan for the whole region of Eastern Attica for the quickest possible settlement of the issue by the end of July 23, 2020. In this respect, it is particularly important that the government chooses to set up a non-profit company called "Mati again", a company which aims to promote the development and implementation of an action plan for the region with increased participation of representatives of local society, as well as institutions such as the Court of Auditors and which operates under the private-sector rules to serve, however, the public interest. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy in the Eye must teach. The New Democracy will quickly heal the wounds, quickly restore normality to Eastern Attica. He does nothing more than he has promised to election with respect to the dead, with respect to the injured, with respect to the entire Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u170	The next speaker is Mr Moraite from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the start of the sitting today it seemed something very clear, as is the Minister who suggests this plan and, of course, the Members of the New Democracy on another line. From the outset, our rapporteur and all of us have made every effort in committee, on such a great subject, to move into a framework of consensus, because I think the subject we are discussing today is quite sensitive. The murderous fire in Matti was a national tragedy, which in no way should and should not be the subject of political confrontation. We are talking about human lives that have been lost here, and I believe - and we must look in the mirror as a whole and the entire political system. Let us not hide, the state over the years for many decades has not been prepared to face these great disasters, to face the climate crisis that we are now experiencing. And here, of course, there are responsibilities. But you will allow me to say that despite the great catastrophes, despite the Eye, and all the ones that have been ahead of us, a political system which is not willing to catch up with the maths is still in place today. I will accept that mistakes have been made in the past few decades. There have been omissions, there have been fears, perhaps even conflicts, which we have also lived in local communities that have constantly transferred to address such important issues and issues in the bells. But we see that all this costs and costs too much. I think it is time for all of us to ask ourselves, if today we are ready to act, to save lives. And the state has to move in this direction seriously, frankly, forcefully, with responsibility and power. I say all this because I want to note and stress, Minister, that with this bill, I think a great opportunity is missing. While you could have brought a bill which is a guide after the disasters that we have experienced and prepared properly as a state and how we will offer solutions, I think a bill is coming in incomplete, blurred. And although we waited today for some corrective action on your part, I think it is a bill that will continue the deadlocks and will not give solutions. Honestly, I had no intention of confronting this bill. I believe, however, that we are caused by positions in this Chamber. It is a hot thing, but the way in which this issue has come, the attitude and the lies, I believe that I am being forced and forced by everyone, rather than discussing how we will go about creating a plan with structures and tools, unfortunately focusing elsewhere. Because that's the point. We should jointly see how we can make progress on all the things that are coming. I could have spoken for hours - our rapporteur did so - by SYRIZA - on how SYRIZA tried to deal with this great tragedy in a short time. I do not want to go in and mention one - one of the decisions and moves and planning. However, I would like to focus on two points, which I consider to be extremely important: One is the issue of the company, which you're going to create. Yes, we must listen and listen to the inhabitants. I believe that this has also been done by the previous government. Listen to the residents. I remember the Minister, who is here today, going and looking at the citizens in the eyes and discussing with them. It is another strategy, however, that is what we have to follow. Because that is exactly where I think that specialization is needed, that is where people need to give directions, suggesting solutions. You cannot transfer the responsibility of the municipalities, the district, the ministry, to a company made up of citizens, if I am not mistaken, five directors of ministries. Solve what? Honestly, I am very afraid of all the things that will follow, if you really are going to do so on other issues, to start transferring the state's responsibilities to the relevant AMKE, where I do not really know what results they will bring. For our part, however, you see that there is - and there was from the outset - all the goodwill to find a solution and to give Parliament with understanding something effective. We have proposed concrete changes to you. I think you have not accepted them. I'm going to the second theme, the special peasant. You have something the Minister said here that he has delayed quite a bit. It may have been delayed, but remarkable people of the Ministry, executives and institutional actors in the region have worked on this special peasant. Honestly, I want to understand. You throw it in the trash, why is it in conflict with little energies or throw it in the trash, and you assign it to the WEU, why don't you ever want it to go ahead? Honestly, it's a big question I have. I think you should give us an answer on this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I said, therefore, the political system must assume its responsibilities and not disperse them. We have shown you at the first moment, at the first meeting of the committee, our culture. We collaborated, proposed, called for improvements in order to produce something. And why did we urge you to improve and amend? Because at first you brought a bill with extreme carelessness. I have listened very carefully to the Minister today saying that we should not follow micro-party roads and micro-participatory purposes on these major issues. I have heard your MPs, Minister, reminding how wrong, how disastrous SYRIZA's policy was in the region. I want to remind the Chamber of something else. Eye was one of the three, four main communications issues that you raised in an election, play with people's lives and a national tragedy, and today you come and say "Let's go to a climate of consensus, see what we're going to do."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u172	Please complete, Mr. Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u173	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I conclude by saying that in Matti, whose issue you raised in the election, you have rewarded the man, whom the current Prime Minister considered as the principal responsible and asked this Chamber if he was sleeping at night and upgraded him to a political head of all services. On the other point, which you have also raised in the election campaign, I would like to remind you that, not just did you but you cannot look at the voters in the eyes. I believe that with such practices, with these logics of the past, the country will not be able to go forward. We are here to propose, control and fight a great battle for a change of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u174	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Hetas, has the floor. Then we will give the floor to the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis. Mr. Heta, you have six minutes as a protology. Of course, as a parliamentary representative you are entitled to both dentology and tritology. That's half a year because Mr. Velopoulos spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u175	Understood. I know, Mr President, and thank you very much, but I do not think I will need all the time. To say good work and good work and advancement" to our children who are currently starting schools. You will allow me, before we enter our daily life here, to wish our children, the Greeks, a good and constructive year. Also, to overthrow and say that today is a day of memory, because eighteen years ago terrorism entered for good in our lives. We had the terrorist strike at the Twin Towers in America. It's a day that marked the lives of all of us and the world. I will make two or three small references to the bill, because our special speaker has explained them very well and in his denture he will give some details yet. I just want to say that we are opposed to every NGOs and IMUs. We've said it and we'll keep saying it from this Step until everyone knows it and the people who listens to us. No one should substitute the state. The state is responsible for the citizen. No NGOs and no AMKE. I will make one, two small comments and go on some topical issues. The government claims that it takes account of the opinion of the people, and that is why - I will simply say it - five will be involved in the board of directors. This is anticipated and perhaps to some extent it is reasonable. They're people who know the needs in the first-hand areas. At the same time, however, paragraph 2 of Article 3 provides, inter alia, that if the persons concerned are not designated, the Council shall be constituted and operate normally. We have an opposition here, for which we would like an explanation, Minister. I am going on topical issues - of course our President has also mentioned earlier - theft of arms in Lero, ladies and gentlemen. He woke up memories from Syros, when 17 November stole heavy weapons and twisted them into photographs and notices. The years have passed, but these memories never erase. The Government representative, Mr Petsas, just now - and that is why I am transporting it as timeliness - said that the removal of this military material was a few months ago, under the SYRIZA government. It probably happened in SYRIZA Government, but that's not what he's saying. What he says, though, really something is that they discovered it after so long. What is happening in our country, unfortunately, is not happening in Bulgaria either. We're talking about two anti-tankings, we're talking about guns, we're talking about bullets, we're talking about grenades, we're talking lately. No one took a mess of what happened. There are political responsibilities, but I very much fear that they will be paid for, unfortunately, once again by our low-ranking officers and soldiers. We're talking down, ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, we have the Turks, who do what they want in the Aegean and from air and from the sea, and we cannot keep our ammunition storehouse. Unless we assign storage to some NGO and it makes it better than we do. Unfortunately, in Greece we learn from such a ruptured rupture, but we have to be very strong in finding out. I really hope that this equipment, which was stolen from a military warehouse, does not end up in the wrong hands, in very wrong hands and in equipment, is being made illegal and the hot spot turns into yachts. A very small comment - because I come from Thessaloniki - because our Prime Minister was found at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki in the previous days. Within twenty-four-four hours Mr. Mitsotakis managed and made the Thessaloniki metro a joke again. We are going back to the next three or four years and we are seeing. We've witnessed mushrooms at SYRIZA. Now he's transporting the subway, another three to four years later. He upset an entire society, the city's institutions, created new delays and the most wicked, he created additional compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, from 1 September to 11 September, over three thousand poachers have entered our country. The state keeps going, as the New Democracy says. Unfortunately, he keeps on on these matters, we really understand it on our side. Our islands are also suffering the mainland, the societies that are close to the hot spots. I'll be allegiant. I will say this: the refugee from Algeria, because it has war - I do not know how to war there - does not pay rent. The house pays the Greek state. He doesn't pay PPC or water. If he is married, then, the Algerian refugee, the illegal immigrants, takes 800 euros a month and 175 euros for every child. The non-governmental organizations, of course, our friends, unhappily help him and, because the state is constantly in line, the government is following SYRIZA's own policy and we will make them a mosque. I want you to tell us what your plan is. Take them from the islands and send them inland? Create gaps, bring in others? Should we have nice living conditions? As if you're telling them "Come here, we're fine in Greece". The Greek solution has a specific plan, we have said so. These are three things: Hot spot in border regions, finally the NGOs and follow the Australian model, to those who like it and those who don't like it. We have the courage to propose these solutions, which may sound tough, but only in this way will our country escape. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close with this. I was reading a moment ago and I really wonder how it is possible for a former party leader to become a poster and how is it possible for a State Secretary to become a poster? In fact, Mrs Hadjigeorgiou was a post-mortem official, she became a State Secretary with a magic wand of SYRIZA and now retired in SYRIZA. And Mr Theocharopoulos, from a party leader - even this small party - became a poster. Do what you want. Just, the picture we give outside the world, as a society, is not good, if you are concerned, SYRIZA gentlemen, because I am referring to these two, a former party leader and a former State Secretary. It is not a good picture that we give, the image of the covetousness of our own people. I want to ask something. These people, they don't have a normal job, do they? I'm a journalist. So will Members be or will they be retired? Don't you have a job? If you don't have one, find one. If you have, practice your profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u176	I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Minister of State: ‘Statement of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), ‘European Governance Agency (ENISA)’. The Minister for Transport and Infrastructure has the floor, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the incomprehensible tragedy that we have all experienced in Eye and which I think has marked in the most painful way in the fatal summer of 2018, was a tragedy, which we cannot all forget. But the issue today is not about discussing what happened and what the shortcomings were. This conversation, I think, has happened. The question is that one would expect such a great tragedy to be at least teaching about the political system in the country. It is common secret that the previous government in the twelve months that followed Matty did little to ease the tragic consequences of that two-day and, on the one hand, ensure that our country does not relive such a tragedy. As I said before, I do not think that today is the day and time to discuss all these issues in detail. We should confine ourselves to specific issues in the context of our debate. As you know, one of the first actions taken by the government was to clean up the infamous plot in Eye, a time bomb, as the residents themselves said, a plot on which ninety thousand cubic meters of fuel were accumulated, which were daily a huge danger to the region. So this plot remained in the summer full of accumulated fuel. No one had cleaned it up and we did the same thing: we cleaned it in less than a month. You accused us of celebrating. We did not celebrate for self-evident reasons, but we cannot highlight what has happened and while the specific cleansing has so far not been done, the opposition attempted to reduce this fact. In fact, we heard - and various people argued - that this plot had been cleaned up, he says, three more times. However, this does not correspond to the reality. As for the false things you say, we leave you in the Greek people's judgment. I'll tell you one truth: The cleaning of the land your government would carry out it with an assignment of 800,000 euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u178	With 700,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u179	If you'd like, we'd like to present them to the House. And without that amount being included in the transport of fuel, which is estimated to cost so much or more. While, what did the New Democracy Government do? At the Prime Minister's own initiative, he agreed with the companies to do absolutely free - look out! - the collection and transfer of fuel and we thank them once again for this social offer. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the interest of the government and Prime Minister himself has emerged in practice since the first moment in Matti, and we have a concrete plan to deal with all the really very complex problems that trouble the region. Another issue, to which I will be allowed to stand and say that we have moved very quickly, is the removal of asbestos products. But here, I want to be fair. That was something that the previous government had started, and that is the truth. However, it is also true that it did not move forward at the same time as it had to go ahead. What did we do? After having secured an additional EUR 4,000 000 credit to continue and complete the asbestos removal and removal work, we are rapidly running the procedures so that this phase is completed by the end of the month. At the same time, we are moving forward with the work of demolition of the prepared buildings. To date, a hundred and twenty-five buildings have been demolished, we have conducted the competitions for demolition of other hundred thirteen houses, which will also take place by the end of the month and in the remaining hundred and forty buildings, in which there are problems, we will proceed at the same speed. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Ministry is progressing on the procedures for the restoration of the damage to roads and their accompanying plumbing works, both in the Municipality of Marathonas and in the Municipality of Rafina - Pickermio, which had also been launched by the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u180	And the demolitions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u181	Because I see some reactions, I have to tell you that the issue here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u182	You're telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u183	The state, Mr. Spirtzi, keeps going. You're the one who said when you were here, but you were telling the TE. It's good, where you're from not moving your finger. The fact is that these procedures must be circulated, must be done at a much more rapid rate. I briefly mentioned, as far as I could, the mains that the ministry has done to stand by the firemen in Matty. I think that everyone's wish in this Chamber and throughout the country is that we never have to live in such a tragedy again. But it's our duty to do anything about it. The least we can do as a political world is to learn from this tragedy and to make sure that we deal, even with delay, with the enormous consequences that this destructive fire has left, with respect for the citizens and without pointless controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u184	Mr Ploris has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u185	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u186	What do you want, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u187	Can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u188	Wait a minute, Mr. Pleari. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't abuse. I would just like to say to the Minister, who has come to tell us about the actions, that he has devoted half of his speech to cleaning the ground. Perhaps they would have informed you that this was an exhaustive debate in the Committee on Production and Trade, and this morning. As all the Ministers of Government have been informed - we will also inform you - there have already been three cleansings on the ground. That was the fourth. So it wasn't in the first place. I would ask you once again to monitor our procedures a little bit. However, thank you very much for the information.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u191	Minister, you have the floor, but for less than a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u192	Wait a minute. As I said in my speech - you obviously did not understand me - what you claim is not true. No cleaning was done three times. Don't say things that don't apply. There was a clean-up once and he was incomplete. Finally, stop mocking people who have suffered this tragedy. The lies, you know, have close legs, and the people in the region know that they are affected by this calamity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Spirtzi, please, will we continue this story now? Is that the same thing you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u196	Same thing. Let the Minister know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u197	Please, let us continue, because there is still a long list. There are enough speakers. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, the point really is that this plot was filled with whatever you did before. It was a full plot and you couldn't find the procedures needed to empty it one year after the disaster in Matty. And this plot cleared out with two phone calls the Prime Minister made. That means a regular deal of things. There could be a talk here in calm tones, but in fact, the SYRIZA MPs show courage in a subject that they should normally go to report to the people who are there. Because there is a lot of talk about any exploitation, listen to this. The party that exploits ecology as a political movement speaks to us, who do not invoke ecology, but say a disaster or human lives! You can't say who's cheating things! We are going to do so, because the substance of the matter has responsibilities and the responsibilities are not political. The easiest thing is to say: “Who is it? They are political responsibilities to be taken over.’ No, the responsibilities are personified and in this disaster, we need to see what the disaster is and what is the point of responsibility. It cannot be the fault of homes, as they are built or trees if burned or not easily burned. Why? Because the houses knew how they were built and we knew there were trees there. So state planning is never in an ideal world, it's in real world. The Eye with its problems was a reality. It cannot be said by those who are responsible that we had made a plan if everything went well. They all knew the problems in Matty, and they had to work that way. Are disasters taking place? Of course they are, and they will continue to be. The valuation, however, is important. We have to see, the people who died died, why couldn't this disaster be avoided, or was it something where nothing could be done? And here the SYRIZA government has taken a position from the outset, and that's what you need to be ashamed of. For I would understand the position 'Let's go see what has happened'. What were your locations? Your first placements immediately presented the Prime Minister not to know that there are dead when he knew there were dead. The first stage of the SYRIZA government was the downgrading of the tragedy. And in this direction the front page of "AGEY" on July 24, released mentions a national tragedy involving two dead. He could not be informed when all the other newspapers were referring to dozens dead. Then a second scenario had to be found, because the downgrading of the tragedy with so many dead could not be hidden. What was the second scenario? That there's an arson. You remember that press conference where we found out where the fire outbreaks were? He didn't walk that script. Then we had the third, how they built the houses arbitrarily. But these houses were forty years old. Poorly built arbitraryly, but with that logic, we should go out and say that where there is arbitrary construction, everyone is in his luck. It was said that the area could have been evacuated. Can I tell you something? What could happen? No one says there would be no tragedy. A man would be saved if he had an update at the time that the fire was coming and he had to go down to the beach, wouldn't he be responsible for this one who could be saved? Then what did you do? After you concluded that none of you were to blame and that it was to blame for the unregulated construction, which was badly allowed by the previous political system, you came here and talked about faces. You don't want the search for responsibility? The search for criminal liability is done by justice. And as far as the person you're referring to, to the Chief of Police, you may not know that he has not been prosecuted, because he was judged not to be responsible. But you yourself, with regard to those who have been prosecuted - because Mr Moratis said that we should make our self-criticism in the political system - you have chosen the district manager, who has been prosecuted for this. The woman can be innocent. The criminal case will be judged by the courts. For Elia, of course, the decision under number 940/2015 of the Ice Arena has condemned the world in charge. So let's get out of criminality. On the political level, did you not realize that even for something that one might not have criminal responsibility, once it has happened, there should be an emotiveness? So you have made an entire communication - because you have made the communication - the management of the tragedy. You're saying the subject has come up in communication. So it was possible she wouldn't go up? What did you want? Not to mention that we had more than a hundred dead and a disaster in a 30-minute area from the center of Athens? But you did the worst in terms of communication management to reduce - micro-politically, exclusively - the consequences of the image. This was the thing that the Greek people most honored you for. Because I believe that if you ask them, they will say that the disaster can be done, but it is not right for a government to come out and try to drown all this catastrophe and show that the responsibilities are somewhere else, forty years ago, homes were built - it was heard up to the point that we should not have a pine tree, because the pine tree is easily burned - or it is because it was not the right thing to build. If two, three moves had been made, human lives could have been saved. And you didn't have the courage to make a self-critic. In all this, you come, one year later and you say that you did something, but in fact, nothing has happened to the practicer, because the plot was full, because the money was there and they had not been made available. You call upon a government, which in the first two months, respecting the memory of the people and the relatives who grieve, to do some simple things at first and to do the complex, which is the design of how to make the housing plan, so that we do not have new disasters. Finally, because tragedies will always happen and they will always open cases around them, you will have to - because it has been said that everyone will have to look at the voters in the eyes - you, SYRIZA MPs, look at them in the eyes of these people and tell them if your government has done their best to prevent this catastrophe. If you think you've done it, look at them without remorse. You know, however, within you that an evacuation order had been given, a simple evacuation if it had been done, possibly those who were caught in the plot had left earlier and had been able to get down to the beach. Here, gentlemen, it is not a general political responsibility, it is a special responsibility, and this special political responsibility, which is also a criminal responsibility, must be examined and attributed to the people. So let righteousness do its job, as it did in the case of Elijah, and not try to cover up the people who have made these decisions from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Athanasios from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, now I understand how a fly feels in the milk. I have no common ground of discussion with almost any of the previous speakers, except two, I have to note. I don't want to say their name. Another bill was introduced, and today Mr Hatzidakis was packed. The draft law renders the insult in writing "you did nothing, so you are incompetent and we are now starting from the beginning to do something about Eye". This came out despite the 'a few things' that Mr Karamanlis said. Today, Mr. Hatzidakis in the orals changes the line. “Be strong,” he says. 'There you are, I accept some of the amendments.' 'I agree with the Court of Auditors' recommendations'. "I go through aggression, reconciliation and understanding." I really congratulate him, but I will not forget the initial attack. I was personally offended by the editor of the bill, because a little did my humility about Matty. And I look at them in their eyes, even every day. What do we call this bill? If I call it "Metsotakis S.A.", you'll be displeased and I don't want it. I shall call it a better ‘project of ‘but’. Three of the many 'but's are: First, it will be supervised by the Minister of the Interior, 'but' Prime Minister Mitsotakis will deal with every question concerning the operation, purposes, resources, financial management and the establishment of this company, and the explanatory statement is being made. Secondly, it will serve to serve the public interest, ‘but’ in accordance with the rules of the private economy. It will therefore work without mandatory rules of transparency. Thirdly, can it entrust studies, projects and services, 'but' is excluded from public procurement legislation, L.4412/2016, excluded from the legislation on compliance with financial rules - does Brussels know? - Excluded from the prudential control of contracts by the Court of Auditors. You're changing something, but the original intention in writing reveals your character. The favourite words of this draft law are ‘by way of derogation’ and ‘but’. Dear derogators and in a different senses, with so many 'but's the bill is full of legal - perhaps even constitutional - thorns. Let's see the subject from another angle. Firm "Matty Again" and distinguished title "Matty Again". How much did you pay for the ad this time? Three times it was filled with the vast plot that the public rented from the Municipality of Rafina, while it was an obligation of local government to depose the burned trees. Mr. Karamanlis said this was a lie. Then he admitted one. We'll see what he'll admit next time. Prime Minister Mitsotakis took the TV workshops and went when the plot had been filled again, not of course when he had been empty. Do you think the mock is working? Personally, I think yes, it's a mock. I'll get you a proof of another kind. Many came out on television and made financial offers in favour of firefighters, but eventually, they didn’t give a damn. What's more than mocking each other? I want to come to your populism, gentlemen of the New Democracy. What was the main axis of your election campaign? Media. No, I don't mean mass communication. The initials mean "Mati, Mandra, Lightning". Mandra will be caught later when the rainfall starts again. Matti, as a propaganda, is unfolding today, due to high temperatures. For the reductions, which are the policy of the Tsipra government, I will only ask. Why don't you reduce the deposit from 100% to 50%, as SYRIZA had announced? To complete your geometric, let me, your propaganda type "SME" and add "SME+P", where "P" is equal to Prespes. If what you said in the cafes and in televisions, if what you have organised in the squares and in the main streets of the big cities of our country against the Prespecies Agreement is not populism - populism, in fact - then one of the wise teachers in the New Democracy can explain to us what is popularism. What legacy did you leave? From the tragedy in Matty, it's been a year, a month and two weeks. You come now and say that nothing has been handled since then. You handle the matter, like the fire was erased ten days ago. Why this challenge? Why this aggression? What's hiding here? What do you want to prevent - if you will excuse me - the expression - of this 'daliki' which Mr Hatzidakis has today turned into what we call 'day' spirit and reconciliation? In his challenge 'you did nothing for the Eye, now we fix things', I would like to respond with a challenge of another quality, I hope. Politics - I stress, politically - and historically the tragedy in Eye you are responsible for the New Democracy party. Listen to why, if you have the courage. Because you didn't apply the Tritsis law. The tragedy in Matty and every Eye was predicted and prevented. Ten percent of the Tritsis law had been implemented - what do I say? - a single provision had been applied, lives would have been saved. They burned alive, because they could not go toward the sea. Law No. 1337 of 1983, please, provides that five hundred-mile wide coast fences are not permitted and those built and obstructing access to the coast are demolished. Only this provision had been applied, people would have been saved. After the fire the SYRIZA government resurrected this provision. You did not apply Tritsi law, personally pursue him, call him graphics, to remember the softest expression of your insults. And now you want to get out of here! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What legacy did you leave in Matty? A mouse trap you left. Did you delimit streams? Have you left a fire escape from the lens, or have you locked it already, and have you thrown the key into the sea? We are talking in this country, which goes to complete two hundred years of independence, as if it were founded today. We're talking about this bill, like it was founded today. However, the question has been resolved since 1983 and this solution has now been vindicated. You simply did not apply this solution, Professor of Spatial Planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u201	Mrs Duria has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost a year and two months have passed since the national tragedy in Matti. However long as it passes, one thing is certain that no one will forget the two hundred victims of this tragedy, who have been lost in such an unfair way, and none of us is justified in devastated the ruins that this natural disaster has left behind, from the great wounds, both for the survivors in their areas and for the environment, wounds which we are from the position that we are currently in place and today must help to close down and ensure that they are not again provoked by the irreversibility of the state mechanism. The Government of New Democracy and the Prime Minister himself have pointed out, since the first days of power takeover, the great priority it gives to the relief of the affected in Mati and the prevention of such future disasters and has shown practically his interest in the act of legislative action to address immediate risks and needs in the regions of the Eastern Attica affected by the fires of 23 July 2018. The legislative act of 24 July 2019 intended to address the immediate risks for residents and the residential environment due to the retention of waste, waste and other dangerous materials, as well as to take action to safeguard the health of residents, protect the environment and avoid such tragic events. With the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy which we are voting on today, we are called on, among other things, to ratify this important act of legislation. Under the terms of the draft law, the central administration is able to intervene in the conditions of natural disasters. In particular, the removal of waste, waste and all other hazardous materials from fire-fighting areas is regulated by a decision of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and provision is made for the possibility of such projects to be undertaken by natural or legal persons at the same cost and without any public burden, following the approval of the Minister for Finance, Infrastructure and Transport. We all remember, of course, that very recently, in this way and without imposing the public on the public and with a single euro, this plot was finally cleaned up in Matti, where more than twenty-five thousand tons of burnt trees and branches had accumulated! We're talking about twenty-five thousand tons! The removal of dangerous materials is seen as necessary, of course, as they jeopardise the health of the local population, and may also cause a new natural disaster. This bill introduces another new special body, a non-profit urban company called "Mati Again". The aim of this special body is to promote actions to restore and regenerate the affected areas of the Eastern Attica Regional Unit from the fires in July 2018. Interestingly, this body, including the Court of Auditors, the General Accounting Office, the Bank of Greece and the representatives of the Technical Chamber of Greece, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Environment and Energy and the Interior, will operate, on the basis of the rules of the private economy, but in the interests of the public interest. At the same time, the Technical Chamber of Greece is entrusted with drawing up a special spatial plan in the area to solve the problems of decades immediately. To relieve our surviving fellow citizens of the fires of 23 and 24 July we are taking drastic measures to help, material support and medical care. This creates a register of burnt forest fire victims and defines the process of categorizing them and making them all medicines, even at home of treatment with coverage by the EEAS. Any act of forced execution of movable and immovable property against natural or legal persons, which is temporarily or permanently in an unforeseen state of emergency, shall be suspended until 30 July 2020. The authorisation of a joint Ministerial Decision to grant compensation for the restoration of space and legal fence to the owners of the property affected by the fire shall be granted. Such compensation, as well as housing assistance for repair and restoration of damage to buildings by the murderous fires that are being extended, will be borne by the Special Firear Relief Account of 23 and 24 July 2018, i.e. the account where EUR 31 million has been unduly untapped. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the state's duty to stand by the citizens, especially the weakest of them. We must therefore alleviate our fellow citizens, who saw their lives being destroyed in Matti last year, to help them get back in their way and, of course, to create a credible and capable state that will protect human lives and property. Our state in June 2018 appeared to be under the circumstances and we want to make sure that this does not happen again. Finally, if I may, I wish today a good school year to all the students who started schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u203	The next speaker is Mr. Blonde from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, we are no doubt discussing a long time ago - and this helps - a national tragedy which has tested both the state's readiness and the adequacy of the coordination of the competent bodies and the strengths of the people, particularly those of them, but also the seriousness of the political forces. I think it is an opportunity today for the debate on this bill to provoke and lead the political system to a reflection, to try to recognise, frankly, the deepest weaknesses and diseases and, of course, to shield ourselves better from possible catastrophic fires or other natural disasters. At least we, that's how we take this debate. Although we really see an attempt to have a mature and substantial debate in low tones, criticisms and voices are not missing, which, in fact, insult people's intelligence and, above all, objective truth. As I have heard before, nothing has happened, you will allow me to make a brief reference to a very specific one, but you all understand that it is a very sensitive part, which is the health care of the injured and particularly the victims. We have said so in committee too. I think that really, the National Health System, despite its problems and the difficulties facing everyday life, has responded exceptionally to the management of the emergency crisis, the urgent need for immediate, effective and intensive care for those in need. There was a terrible mobilisation of all health facilities of the lekadium and hospitals, which invented other hospitals across the border, health centres in the region, the EKA. The necessary intensive beds were ensured. There was no burner who needed an intensive bed and is not available. Of course, the most valuable and experienced health - care executives, associated with plastic surgery, with the care of the burners, have been mobilized to offer the best care. To discuss difficulties for malfunctions and for arrhythmias, which always exist, in the management of such unforeseen and urgent need as you wish, but not with outsourcing and, above all, not insulting the excellent work and sacrifice of the people of the public health system. It was also heard that the care of people after the hospital - because hospital care was extended for too long - or during their stay in the hospital, about all this healing of a major wound, began after July 7, 2019. So I have to give a picture. Obviously, we did not think about it all at the beginning, but these people came in - and it really proves how important it is to have social initiative, to have self-engaging and self-organising people in these cases - the coordinating committee came in, people who were specifically involved in the care of burns and put us in time with various issues, deficits and problems that they had identified in the care of these people. The most important deficit, of course, which is now corrected by this regulation, is that it was not planned that there would be a record of burns in which everyone would be recorded in detail and that there would be a follow-up and follow-up of their care. So we have been given too many issues, and I think we have really tried, and to a large extent we have responded to them. We have covered all the exclusive hospitals at the cost of the hospitals' budgets, i.e. the cost of exclusive burn hospitality, for as long as this was too long - they remained in hospitals. We facilitated their relatives, with additional provision and provision for their feeding and free disposal of chairs or chairs for rest and, above all, at the request of the residents, we have introduced and accepted the approval of a 6,000 euro allowance for hospital and post-medical care expenses. Of course, a huge storeroom of health and pharmaceutical materials was organized next to the Rafina Health Center, in which donations from citizens, NGOs, pharmaceutical companies, etc. were collected. This has been exploited in the best possible and organised way and the emergency and the ultimate needs have been met. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And of course, a very important donation was made by the Latsis Foundation through which we ensured expenditure on the supply of pharmaceutical material, health material or other special pressing clothing, etc. Appropriate in these cases and where the Agency's Staff Regulations could not compensate, by special approval, the Director of the Plastic Surgery of the "General Surgery" Hospital for being approved, recorded and awarded to these people, without any financial burden. So the state took care of these people for free medical care and for their needs to be met as fully as possible. Is everything all right? Apparently not. Obviously there were gaps, obviously there were deficits and, above all, there was this institutional prediction of addressing this need. In this sense, the register is now being created and there is the possibility of electronically issuing opinions, prescriptions and related information. I would also say that this care, which has been provided with the care of many people of the public health system and of the 1st Health Region and of the Ministry, has been done with respect, with low tones, with no photographs, no press releases on the social media, no attempt to have political goodwill and political exploitation from this tragedy. I think this is a crucial conclusion that needs to be determined from now on. I conclude by saying this: obviously there are still open wounds and there are issues which, to some extent, are dealt with more institutionally than the bill. There are requests which are not included and which I tabled to the Committee on Production and Trade the day before yesterday at the hearing. For example, while this regulation is to be extended to future disasters, there are no two critical proposals, which are: to provide for the expenditure of exclusive hospitals, to be covered without pre-authorisation and without, of course, to prepaying the patient and his family for the expenditure and then requesting the amount from the EEAS; and, secondly, to have a special allowance - because the prolonged, long-term hospitalisation creates additional financial burdens - which will be determined at each stage by means of a joint ministerial decision. I therefore think that because, as many have said, we are at a time when the whole world is being tested in this case of the climate crisis, because natural disasters are within the risk of the everyday life of all countries and societies, we really need to move forward - and this is an opportunity - at another level of state organisation, self-government, civil society and all of us to arm ourselves together, in order to have the least possible losses in these cases. I hope and hope that this debate will play a positive role in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u205	Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad and extremely uncomfortable as a representative of the state to face disasters of the size of the fire that took place in Eye in July 2018 with a hundred and two lives lost. But in order for intervention to have a critical effect, it is necessary to do so at the right time. And the first thing we see here, in this case, is that there are significant delays. Personally, I do not want to question the good intentions of the officials of the previous government. However, the measures taken in July 2018, which almost everyone agrees, have not adequately addressed the existing problems. I'm going to number some specifics. In the Firefighting Special Account, another reported a number of 45 million, but I have 37.8 million deposited by two thousand seventy legal and political persons. But the important thing is that 31 million a year later they glean. More importantly, the first disbursements of this money were made recently, a few days before the elections on 7 July. Of the four hundred seventy-five buildings to be demolished, only sixty-one have been demolished. Many of those affected who want to buy another property cannot, because in order to get the aid, demolition must be completed. Finally, the removal of asbestos, the purification of New Buja and the projects of the region, other than anti-corrosion, were outstanding, as were many other central government. Ladies and gentlemen, the state must be consistent and consistent. As far as the second one is concerned, that is to say the consistency, the previous government has had a matter. But the current government, while respecting the continuity of the state, should not only proceed to the measures taken, but also intervene and make them directly and effectively. That is the only reason why the current government must focus on taking additional measures to support our fellow citizens who have been affected. In addition, speed up the implementation of the measures taken to relieve the affected, be they measures concerning victims' families or rehabilitation projects, which are necessary to complete them quickly in the region. I will not say this in particular, and many times have been mentioned by previous speakers. I would like to stress, however, that the current government is determined to operate with specific timetables. I am very optimistic that the procedures will be followed in this case, because when the state is late, the citizens are suffering. The intervention must be immediate, and that is what the legislative act that is being voted on today is doing. The intention of our Government and the mandate of Prime Minister Mitsotakis is speed and solutions for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events of July 2018 caused a strong major shock in the entire Greek society. On the basis of today's legislation, I think it is imperative to reorganise the state mechanism as a whole with regard to civil protection, disaster management and emergency needs. That is what I think has emerged from the tragedy in Matti and hurt us all. I believe that the time has come to seek harmony and understanding, particularly with regard to issues of vital importance, such as the content of the draft legislation being passed. We are actively supporting the protection of human life and ensuring a decent standard of living for Greek citizens. Mr President, let me conclude with one wish: 'Never again such catastrophes'. It's the responsibility of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr Manolakos, for he was too limited in time. I call to Stepma Mrs. Kafantari from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, before being placed in this bill, I cannot answer a previous colleague of the New Democracy who ironically referred to SYRIZA saying: "You are, you say, the party of ecology." I am talking about Mr Ploiros who was placed two or three speakers ago. Yeah, we're the party of ecology. We are the party that has the environmental dimension and climate change, we have it intertwined in all our political proposals and actions. We are the party that sees the environment as a natural resource that must be preserved, but also a development resource under certain conditions. We are not the party that sees the natural environment as subtle and the development at the expense of it. We are not the party which, for example, restores Acheloos' diversion, an issue which has been resolved in the Council of State for years. We are not the party that will renegotiate contracts with Halkidiki in Northern Greece and not only in Halkidiki, but also in Thrace, which had also expired at local government level, when it had emerged some years ago, and at regional level, etc. Of course, we are not the party that will try for a second time to bring back issues for the cavalry, because I am old here and I remember that in 2014 something like that had emerged. You then took it back and brought it back again that you intend as a New Democracy, as a government to go ahead with the snailing of the saint. And they say the papers that you'll get it back again. Of course, we are not the party that goes to the UN Summit on Sustainable Development, and when the relevant committee on the environment asks what position the government does not see. That was last week. But I am now coming to this draft law. With full respect for the human lives that have been lost in this great tragedy last July, we are all standing up to the draft law. I think that has prevailed, Mr Members, and also at the meetings of the committees. Indeed, seriously, with low tones, completely contrary to what was happening until 7 July when we had elections, a year now - perhaps because some people wanted to capitalise on this national disaster, I would say - we are all obliged and I think we are all agreed to do everything so that we never again live like this again and anywhere in our country. Climate change, which is now evolving in a climate of climate crisis and is evident with extreme weather phenomena not only in our country but also at global level, in fact, along with the way of planning cities which are a consequence of political decades, in particular, the non-design of cities and in Eye for decades, the lack of spatial planning, rules, illegality, the lack of basic tools such as forest maps - and I think we all understand and have taken steps by the previous government in this direction, from 1% to 45% -47% of projected - as well as land use issues, all together with administrative defects, operational - I will say - where there are shortcomings being investigated - have brought this tragic result. There has been a very serious debate in our committee without extremism. In fact, I think that everyone's will is with whatever measures are taken and with substantial areas that need to be made - and they may also be of little interest and some may be displeased about that - that the Eye should become a model settlement. That is what is needed, and this procedure let me be if you want a driver as well for other interventions. We are those like SYRIZA who, in committee, accepted the positive points which this draft law brought to specific issues relating to the extension for auctions, tax matters up to 31-07-2020, as well as other issues relating to compensation, with fences. Provision is made for the issue of a CIRR specifying terms, conditions for the granting of compensation, rehabilitation of space and legal fence with resources from a special relief account and others. We were positive about that, and we also recognise the measures proposed in the field of health - although as the former Minister, our colleague, Mr Xanthos, mentioned, before much has been done to the extent possible - that is also positive. From there on, however, we cannot say a few things about this ratification of a legislative act. The draft law has two main points. The first is the establishment of a non-profit company with private management under the control of the Prime Minister, and we see it very much in this draft law on rehabilitation in Matti. And the second is the removal of responsibilities from the Ministry of the Environment for delegation to the TEI. It will be supervised by the Minister of the Interior, but Prime Minister Mitsotakis will deal with every matter concerning the operation, purposes, resources, financial management and the establishment of the company. It will work to serve a public interest, but in accordance with private-sector rules, without transparency rules. There was also a position by the Committee on Public Procurement in the Committee on Production when the consultation took place, and by the Court of Auditors assigning studies, projects and services, except for Law 4412/16. Of course, we have seen some positive changes by the Minister today - I would say - on the question of the Court of Auditors and its non-participation, but also on the other issues relating to the awards, which we expect to see anyway. At the TEI, a special spatial plan is commissioned for the reconstruction of the area to an area of 8,000 acres with the final delivery date of the study of 23 July 2020. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The previous leadership of the Ministry of the Environment had, however, taken the first major step towards organising the region by unanimous approval of the special peasant, and the call for tendering for a study along with the implementing acts was made available by the Green Fund. Let me say, however, that we are seeing here, and from the debate that took place in committee, that the TEI is assigned. On the other hand, the president of the TEI said it would be by volunteering large offices, which would accept around 500 thousand euros, to do this study. But - and this is not the very serious thing, ladies and gentlemen - there is no hint of a rhetoric. Without her, however, they don't come out. And the world that he wants now is empty to be able to build, repair, rebuild his home. We have also heard a lot of things in committee. It was recognised by residents' institutions that steps were taken, but more could be done, that simplification of procedures was required to restore areas. They accepted the previous government's political will to resolve the issues after the disaster. Of course, however, we have heard things about forest areas too. But we cannot say here - and that is why I said it at the outset - that we may be sad by some. We recognize the need for the world, but forest map was posted in a piece. It's not the whole Matty forest. We need to move this process forward. Also, in terms of spatial planning, as I have said before, we must not dismantle forest sections now that the climate crisis is hitting our door openly, loudly, while remaining arbitrary, under the cover of the social crisis in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u209	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u210	You're right. I'll be done. Let it be the occasion to shake consciences and compare everything with human lives, interests. And finally, to design such a way for sustainable cities and settlements, from now on, modern, unclosed streets, with openings, outlets, at sea - human right to access the beach - of course, with a way out of life from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u211	Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, the tragedy in Eye left two dead and tens injured, thousands of homes damaged or completely destroyed, tens of thousands of acres of forests were lost, as well as an incalculable number of animals. The fire in Matti is the deadliest in the history of the modern Greek state and the second most murderous worldwide in the 21st century. For this tragedy, the responsibilities of the SYRIZA government and the then administration of the Attica Region are enormous. Complete absence of prevention measures, total lack of information for citizens to leave their homes in good time. They tried to communicate the tragedy, as it is now known that before Mr Tsipras' meeting himself and his ministers were already aware of the tragic incident. All of this cannot be questioned, nor can it be veiled by anyone. Therefore, in addition to the political responsibilities of Mr Tsipras and his ministers, we expect the Greek justice and the allocation of criminal responsibilities to all those responsible for the infinite destruction. I don't like talking about the past. After all, the Greek people have already given the answer to SYRIZA. But I cannot forget the cynicism of Mr Tsipras and his ministers. I cannot forget Mrs Durou's statement that she had a shift on her shift. The Government of New Democracy alone in the past two months has faced two thousand three hundred sixty - eight fires at every corner of the country. They have all been successfully dealt with, with coordination and self-determination. As soon as we took over the governance of the country, even partially, the number 112, from Eye, was removed in record time, while for a year the previous government did absolutely nothing. The regeneration of the area is now under way, including private initiative. Society sees the state next to it again. With the measures that we are voting on today, among other things, the immediate risks of the retention of waste and hazardous materials in areas of Eastern Attica are being addressed immediately to ensure the health of residents and the protection of the environment. In particular, we move on to the necessary actions to alleviate firearms and restore the environment in the region. The participation of the local society is the non-profit company "Mati again". In order to respond quickly and effectively, this company will operate on private criteria. The TEI is responsible for drawing up a new pilot project in order to solve the problems of decades in the short term. Additional measures are provided for the relief of firefighted persons. Any enforcement action to the detriment of persons affected shall be suspended. Compensation shall be granted from the special firearms relief account. By August 2020, the deadline for submission of applications for housing assistance to restore damage to buildings shall be extended. Pharmaceutical treatment is provided and the necessary therapeutic means are provided to the affected. A register of forest fire victims shall be drawn up in order to cover them fully by the EEA. Ladies and gentlemen, Eye was a dark moment in the history of Greece. In these darkest moments it is that we must focus on the light. We won't stay a minute in the mistakes of the previous government. We're here to give the solution. We are here to protect the health and safety of all Greeks. We're here to give back a piece of the broken heart of the people who were hurt in Matty. As our Prime Minister pointed out from the IGC step, we do not forget but move! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u213	Although non-Lakon, Mr. Butsicakis was a lacquer. Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, to continue with your comment, I have the feeling that some of my fellow Members from New Democracy have come here to make a presentation inconsistent with the subject we are discussing, perhaps to record in their curriculum that they have also tabled a philosopher for responsibilities of the past. They probably did not understand what we are talking about and lead us to another route, Mr. Special Speaker of the New Democracy and Mr. State Secretary. We here have come with a substantial commitment to participate and contribute to the bill, respecting the loss of human lives and the work that has been done there in the region, but above all respecting the needs of the people and the region to continue life. Because life was ruined in the area. It was an area that was rich, it was beautiful - they said a number of colleagues from there - but very much injured and betrayed. Because he was injured and betrayed from the past and could not receive such a powerful blow. And of course, Mr President, I am referring to the arbitrary nature - which you know, from the region you are - and the forests and the building that existed in the region. However, the framework for the debate so far obliges me to give you some information, which I have not heard so far. First of all, there was no complete circular from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to our period, combining the declaration of the resurrected area with the direct call for anti-corrosion and anti-military works. This has now been done in all fires - if I remember well from Kalamatos, that is, from Kandridriti - there are direct funding for anti-corrosion and anti-military works. And this has already been done in the area, and the projects have already begun to be executed, and it is lies for anyone who says that the stalks and anti-corrosions have not been started in the area. Therefore, anti-military and anti-corrosion projects are being implemented upstream of regions with immediate approval and funding. In cooperation with the region and the decentralized region it was both in Kadandriti and Kalamatos and in Zakynthos. It happened in all regions and in Evia last year, if I'm not mistaken. Second matter. Our country had no fire prevention policy until 2018. After the conclusion of the Goldammer Commission, the ministerial decision has been drawn up and our country now has a fire prevention policy. And something that will be very important is, at some point, you dare come here to discuss what is going on with the fire prevention policy, because that will save lives and the environment. So here I have to tell you that there has been a very large reduction in the staff and resources of the forest services. If I am not mistaken from 2000-2017, which was registered, it was a reduction of 60% to 80% in some services and a reduction of 40% in staff. Does that mean we have to invest in prevention? How does a man invest in expelling resources, expel personnel from forest services? But now there is a schedule approved by the respective Ministry of Recruitment that has to be implemented since this year. We're waiting for you. They must be two hundred and fifty-five and 140 million euros to be invested in forestry services. Let's see. We'll be with you if it moves on. At the same time, it is also a project from the public investment programme and, if I am not mistaken, the pilots for the mixed forest - housing that we lack. We have no pilot action, and we do not have a plan for the mixed forest area - housing - and that is well known. At the same time, for the first time this year a joint ministerial decision was signed. I have had the honour of signing it with Mrs Gerovas, for the institutional cooperation of the Firehouse and Forest Services. That's why, this year, the services are together and they work together and they do well and it's more effective. Some special waste clearance actions were implemented, end-life vehicles were all removed in cooperation with a special system, wood with forest cooperatives and burnt-outs. There is a program of Democritus, Observatory and the Marine Research Centre that controls all pollutants. It's good and it's going on, but you haven't discovered the wheel. It shall apply from August immediately after the fire. And, of course, there is concrete action for the residues. I am amazed at the debate that is taking place. I heard a Member of the New Democracy Region saying he doesn't know what happened with the remains. I should therefore like to state, Mr Secretary-General, that from 8-8-2018, the Directorate-General for Forestry - I think, and you mentioned it, Mr. Colleague, as a representative of the Morning25 - has given a mandate for how the residues with the diffusion of the residue should be managed, broken down into the area, to feed the nutrients so that the area can be refreshed. I put it to you, Mr President, because we need to rediscover the wheel here in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, with three laws, L.4576, L.4579, L.4613, the conditions for building, distances, reds, protection of the sanctuary, allowances, and how to leave through the streams some with special social housing benefits have been defined. It's all done. And at the same time, there were demolitions in the area. And I have tabled a question, but I have not heard an answer about what the Ministry of the Environment will do with the EUR 500,000 competition for the thirty-eight demolition protocols, which are ready and, because the contractor didn't have the documents all, if I'm not mistaken, he has become barren. You need to answer because otherwise, not just does the administration have all the time, but go back in relation to all that has been prepared. The area was declared refreshable, became a forest map, the forest map was posted, it became a special spatial plan, the first phase of the study, with zero resources - zero costs - in six months. It was a lie that was said to have delayed the special spatial plan too much. At the same time, for the special spatial plan, I should like to make it clear that it was inaccurate what the Minister said. It was compulsory for there to be pre-authorization because this is clearly stated in article 8 of Law 4447/2016. Because it was not just a pre-authorisation of the special spatial plan but also an amendment of existing conditions in the area, which are the Household Control Zones. There was an IOE in the area trapped. On the well-known Frangou plot, where there was the tragic result of so many people, there was a designation that was never implemented in your period of service of a saint, namely for showers and lockers. This ZOE obviously could not otherwise be incorporated into the special spatial area if there was no pre-authorisation. That is what is called law, and that is what has happened, and I cannot understand why the Minister has concealed it and even modified it. Of course, this is not about whether or not the Ministry of the Environment took it, the body implementing the special spatial plan. Because that sounded like it today. But, Mr President, I would like to ask a few questions. We remain unclear about the convention of the Chamber of Technical Chambers. He hasn't come to the House. It also gives me a very big impression that a special account is being charged with studying the special spatial plan. We had never imagined that we would charge ENVY and the cost of the special spatial plan on the account that is to serve the citizens and restore the region. It's wrong. We have not clarified what the cost will be, how the public will be assured that the studies, what clauses are in the contract, what the nature of the contract will be, what public work will be or not, what will be the deliverable, whether there will be an integrated consultation within the timeframe and whether it will result in a rhetorical plan. The question is simple: will the citizen be able to proceed after October 2020, as you plan to do, to build up procedures? Will it be clear? I'm telling you, it won't be. Mr President, the process of regulation is not described in the Treaty, Mr President. So it is not ultimately applicable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute because I want to mention one more thing to you. It has not yet been said by the government, and it must be said today that it will include in the special spatial plan the pre-approval and the guidelines and all the provisions of the laws that have been made, because they concern roads, the protection of the sanctuary and the access of citizens to the sanctuary and their salvation. You have to say it. The conditions of construction, the delimitation of the area and at the same time the directions of the spatial organization for traffic, the fences on the beach and the uses of land are in pre-authorization. Will they be kept? No one's ever said that. We have all the goodwill to contribute to solving the problem in the region, but you are not helping us. You have not yet made a political position. Yes, but the meeting is over, Mr. Undersecretary. We have all been in the mood to contribute to three committees, and today we have not heard anything. Also, the government has not taken a stand on what it will do with forests. We heard incredible views from the citizens during the committee. You have taken the view at the close of the committee that the constitutional provision for forests should be complied with, because some have asked that it be no forest area and there should be no forest map. We know very well that whatever violet and yellow, that is, the exceptions to the forest map, will delay the solution. We ask the government, as we have done by tabling a law in the House which has not completed its debate, to take a position on yellows and violets and the unblocking of forest legislation to resolve the spatial plan with respect to the Constitution, or we inform the citizens that it will not apply the special spatial plan, we will not solve problems and we want to solve problems and we will be judged on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u215	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u216	I shall conclude, Mr President. I have serious concerns about which service the plan will consider. The Technical Chamber does not have a technical service to consider. So who's going to be the coach and the thinker of the study, I don't mean the approval - you're probably in the Ministry of the Environment - but who's gonna put the round seal we're talking about, who's gonna make the visa? I think the same problems will be experienced by the company created in the area, an empty shirt, a shell, but who will execute? There's a question. We believe that this bill was not necessary, just to decide on the extension of the extraction of waste or of the measurements. We've moved on and you're doing well and you're moving on, you want faster, good. That's not the point. The point is that we have not received any responses to the essential issues of the Convention on the Special Spatial Plan of Problems in the region, forests. And from this point of view, we have not yet heard the planning guidelines.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Famelle, finish up and put in perfection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u218	Because it was our will and we want it to be Parliament, not to reproduce the deadlock that led to this great disaster in this tragedy. We want a position from the government. Of course, the other issues that remain - and I close, Mr President - which I think concern you are what is going to happen to the West Attica, because all the legislative arrangements that we have brought were for the West Attica and the East, and the second is, hold your strengths, there is a great debate on urban and spatial planning. We have heard the closure you have made in committee and the delays. We expect to see how you implement the design for the local spatial plans that in two years will complete the design for all Greek citizens. And we've started this and we're waiting to see your performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u219	Mrs Sukoulis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fires of July 23, 2018 deeply affected Greek society. All of us, and I as a citizen, ladies and gentlemen, last year we witnessed the ineffectiveness of the state mechanism. We have all witnessed a government whose concern was solely focused on the communication management of a tragedy. I wonder, are there no responsibilities in this? Did we raise the sleeve in the eye or the investigations, the interrogations and the results thereof? The president of the New Democracy without cameras went to Matty and tried to be responsible, discreet and useful. We heard that otherwise the Members of the New Democracy and otherwise their Minister and I thought I changed the Chamber when I heard some of you, ladies and gentlemen, because I was trying to find common points in Mr Nasos Athanasios and Mr Xanthos. I went back to the Chamber with Mr Xanthos, to change it a little with Mr Felix's introduction, because his comment on the efforts made by our Members, unfortunately, did not understand. And I really wonder, fine what you described us, but they weren't able to prevent the tragedy, and, unfortunately, that's what matters. You had the time and you didn't do it before evil. Just, ladies and gentlemen, the Eye has pointed out in the most tragic way that the King is naked. And the worst is that it was created - and unfortunately rightly - that - not the impression - to the citizens that they are unprotected, that the supreme good, life, is not protected by the Greek state. The tragedy in Eye, however bitter it may sound, could be avoided if the state mechanism was ready for the management of such crises, if the government were to see to it that the protection of human life and the natural environment was the highest priority in government action. The Prime Minister, with his sensitivity and interest, since the first time incurring government responsibility, stressed with particular emphasis that the first and foremost concern of the government's political action is the protection of citizens and of the natural environment. In our country we are used to talking about grand designs, about central ideological controversies, but we are still unable to resolve the basics of every civilised place effectively. But there is also a more substantial and bronze message that our Prime Minister sends to this Chamber and beyond. The responsibility for protecting our people and their property, but also the natural environment, must be continuous and non-negotiable. It should be a priority of our political action, and we should look for it no matter what we do, so that the Eye is never repeated again. That is the least we can do in memory of the victims of this tragedy. The government in an act of political ethos to the victims of this unscrupulous tragedy, in an act of political consistency towards its election declarations, but above all in an act of political will, in order not to relive something like that, submits this draft law on the necessary actions and measures to relieve these firefightings, restore the region in general and avoid new such tragic events. We have already made progress in just one month since the takeover of governance, but we are also going to remove the dangerous materials in the region of the regional unit of Eastern Attica affected by these fires. A further package of measures is planned to relieve the affected, address unforeseen and urgent needs that have arisen as a result of natural disaster. Measures are proposed for economic aid, suspension of enforcement measures, as well as material support, as well as the provision of medical care and therapeutic means to the affected. We are not hiding behind bureaucratic obstacles in order to find solutions. On the contrary, we are breaking them by establishing a different model of decentralised management of similar situations. For this reason, it is established as a body for the preparation and management of a plan of actions for the region and residents, the urban non-profit company called "Mati Again", in which they participate through their representatives, other than persons selected by the local community, who are better acquainted with the needs of the region. We are working together, in other words, with those who have better knowledge of the problems in the region to find solutions for their own lives. This is the right way, from the bottom up. Finally, the Technical Chamber of Greece is entrusted with drawing up a new model of special spatial plan for the entire East Attica region affected by the fires, in order not only to solve the problems of decades, but also to resolve them in a very short time, as the delivery deadline is 23 July 2020. We are moving quickly, but also efficiently, not because we are doing something special. We're just doing what the Constitution and the laws obliges us to do. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are proving that we are not forgetting and moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u221	My colleague from New Democracy has the floor, Mrs Agrinopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 23 July 2018, we experienced a great tragedy in our country, as we watched our fellow citizens lose their lives a few miles away, without being able to do anything to help them. The murderous fires in Matti have been one of the largest fires in the past decades in our country and throughout Europe. It's a national tragedy. Even sadder is the fact that the tragedy was intensified due to multiple human errors. We have witnessed a state of unorganized, incompetent and sometimes analgesic. There was neither coordination nor early notification. Safety procedures were not followed even if they did not know government factors, evacuation processes, or rescue procedures. A characteristic example is the case of the then Minister of Defence, who expected permission from NATO to send ships to rescue, resulting in the loss of many human lives. But not even in the next few days, weeks, months, the right measures were not taken. Therefore, for any of the recognised three stages of treatment, namely the prevention and rehabilitation of natural and man-made disasters, there was no care. Today, there is still insufficient care for our fellow humans suffering from physical and mental injuries that day. The injured, even today, do not, at least, take their medications. Until recently no measures had been taken to completely decontaminate the site. Just a few days ago with care of the country's Prime Minister himself, fuel was removed from the plot in Matty. That is why the immediate ratification of this act of legislation is absolutely essential. The establishment and operation of the non-profit company "Mati Again", which plans, recommends and supervises projects for the safety of residents and regions and the reconstruction, rehabilitation and regeneration of the affected areas and will generally take initiatives and coordinate the restoration of the natural and urban environment, is necessary. It is important to adopt the specific spatial framework so that in a short time the region will be redesigned for settlements, for the avoidance of such incidents and for long-term residential issues to be resolved. From the experience we have gained as a country after other cases of natural and man-made disasters, such a central coordination and implementation committee is necessary. Suffice it to say that in the absence of an equivalent body for the restoration of the fires of the Peloponnese, and especially of Elias, since the fires in 2007, money is still being sprinkled on the Bank of Greece's special account today. Such a central initiative has never been adopted, such as the one we are adopting today, despite the parallel suggestions made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is planning, coordinating and implementing the restoration of the affected areas. In the first time since the murderous fires, significant measures were implemented and government coordination was carried out in 2007 and 2008. On the contrary, in the medium term, humanitarian aid sent by all parts of the world was managed by individual first-degree local authorities or regions which, on the one hand, did not have the relevant experience and, on the other hand, did not have the mandate to implement a specific plan with rehabilitation measures. A medium-term monitoring plan was never drawn up and no relevant body was set up to monitor the rehabilitation of the areas. As a result, even today, the natural environment of this region, the Peloponnese and Elias has not been fully restored. There is an increase in average temperature locally, the local economy has not been restored and sufficient care has not been taken to avoid such incidents in the future. On the occasion of this debate, and with great respect for the victims, both in the case of Eye, but also in the case of Elias, I would like to put to the table, even now, even late, the need to set up a small committee for a specific period of time to complete the restoration of the areas affected in 2007, to make the best use of the funds that are still in the special account today, to draw up a special plan for adaptation of the area, to climate change and to draw up a specific spatial plan aimed at protecting and regenerating the natural environment for sustainable development. For this last objective, I would like to inform colleagues that we have already held a meeting with the mayors of the Ilias Prefecture and the Deputy Minister present today, Mr Economou, whom I thank particularly for. In general, I urge the government to take due care, as is the current situation in other cases of disaster prevention and response, in order to avoid future tragedies in our country. We should manage our forests better and strengthen the Fire Corps and forestry services more. It should be immediately and in good time before rainfall starts to implement actions for the Mandra region and other areas of dangerous rivers and rafts, while the issue of earthquake protection in our buildings, particularly in schools, is particularly important. In conclusion, I would also like to assure myself in my capacity as chairman of the Special Standing Committee on the Environment of the Parliament that the memory of the victims will remain alive between us and that the committee will also monitor the development of the work of the Committee 'Mati again'. I close my suggestion by wishing that we should not face a similar tragedy in our country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Mr Kotsiras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, the specific draft law that ratifys an act of law-making, which has as its main concern the relief of those affected by the fires of 23 July 2018 and the treatment of the unforeseen and extremely urgent needs arising as a result of this particular natural disaster. But we are not talking about any natural disaster, we are talking about a national tragedy. We're talking about a national tragedy that shocked all of us. For what happened on that tragic day, for the complete lack of the state mechanism at the time of the crisis, the competent judicial authorities have already been seized, but we cannot forget the specific political responsibilities that exist to manage this crisis. We cannot forget that the people themselves are saying - and those who have experiential experience of these fires - the total absence of any state body at that time. We saw the immediate operation of the state mechanism in a 'equitable' fire days ago, while it had to be. Here, then, we hear from a number of Members of this House about the political system that must take responsibility for it. The responsibilities must be assumed by those in charge of the crisis at that time. We hear them say about the past few years, but in the past decades, the crisis had to be dealt with by the particular people who were designated by the Greek people at that time to be present and unfortunately were absent. And that can't be forgotten. So today's bill has a substantial, but also a symbolic value, because the new government shows that it is close to the people who were affected at the time and showed it from the very beginning in a series of concrete actions, such as the cleaning of the plot, which was swept away from the standpoint of counterpopulation, but it was an important, simple, but important initiative. This draft law deals with timely specific needs, practical needs, such as the extension of applications for housing assistance, the extension of the suspension of the auctions. Measures are being taken to ensure that people who have been so affected in this particular area are well living, and they are health-related, with provision for burners, with the environment, that is to say, by removing certain dangerous materials. There is provision for a difficult project - I will agree - to draw up a specific spatial plan, which is a complex problem, but it is a problem that needs to be solved at some point to prevent such situations in the future. There is provision for citizens to cooperate, which is a sound measure to deal with the next day. There is a flexibility in decision-making that is crucial for such a serious issue in its management, as the next day in Matti. And in the end it is judged by this arrangement that the state is really close - as it should be - to the person who has suffered the real damage and who does not forget it the next day, does not confront him, does not use him in communications. But here, Minister, I would like to make a reference to Kinetta as well. I think there should be very briefly a regulation dealing with these issues too, because the conditions prevailing in this area are very specific, but it was also affected on that day, it has hit a large part of its web, it has suffered a great natural disaster. I am very optimistic, and I believe that one of the next initiatives of the government will be an autonomous regulation for Kineta, which I consider to be legally, politically and socially imperative. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the cornerstone of politicians is to stand by the citizens while they really need us. Unfortunately, the state, while there was a need for it, was absent. Let us try from now on to be present with citizens' problems. Obviously, it is not easy to resolve such critical issues, obviously they are not solved holisticly, but this government has shown since the first day that it is taking responsibility for the management of the next day in a way that is close to the citizen, contrary to a previous communication show. I therefore believe it is necessary to vote for this initiative by the whole of the Greek Parliament, because it concerns a very sensitive issue and we will all be judged against the citizens, the hundreds of two citizens who left life, but also those who have left behind, to serve a very difficult situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u225	Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in plenary is an initiative by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which primarily covers the total absence of the previous government for the period from fire and then restores the lack of any kind of measure to close the major fires opened in the summer of 2018. Today's bill, which was discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade, legislates the actions of the New Democracy Government in Matti and institutionalizes initiatives so that the tragedy region can be regenerated. The effort to make the Eye better and to return the life he had before the fire - to the extent that this can happen - was one of the basic commitments of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy Party election. This commitment is now being implemented as a minimum, but also very substantial, which we can make for the inhabitants of the region and for the region itself. So what does the government do with the deposit and vote of this bill? It proceeds to all those legislative arrangements which constitute the beginning, the beginning of refreshment in the area of Eye. And how does that work? With the establishment of the urban non-profit company called Mati again, which aims to promote and strengthen development through the implementation of an action plan for the whole region. At the same time, emphasis is placed on the involvement of representatives of local society so that these people can be partners and collaborators in the great effort that the Eye can overcome the great tragedy and sometimes manage to heal their wounds. I would like to stress that in the Committee's discussions we heard the representatives of the region and a comprehensive debate was held on the current needs, but also on the next day, which is of great value, as the House, the MPs and the government are blaming the concerns of the people themselves who are experiencing a new reality every day following the enormous catastrophe. We are also legislating a number of measures aimed at alleviating and providing substantial help and care for the victims themselves, the burners themselves, and exempt them from certain obligations until they are able to stand on their feet again. Ladies and gentlemen, the experience of natural disaster and human tragedy last summer is something that we all want to overcome. But mostly they want the people who saw their people go missing and their homes destroyed. Getting over it doesn't mean abandoning. It doesn't mean leaving these people in their luck to fight alone against the hardships the disaster left behind. Several of them were left by the previous government alone during the fire. Our debt to all those who have experienced the worst and most cruel way of cynicism is double. It is firstly to be able to convince them that the broken-up state that does not serve the citizen and allowed this natural disaster to be turned into an unprecedented human tragedy, as I said before, will be a past. We will work to put an organisation, a class in state structures, mainly to serve and protect citizens, and, secondly, to provide them with all the facilities to rebuild their lives. The state has a debt towards them and the draft law brought by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is an effort that is part of a series of initiatives planned for the Eye. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that we are doing the least we can, but what, in my opinion - and I believe, in the opinion of everyone in this Chamber - is important so that the injured, the families of the victims, the people who saw their homes be destroyed, can continue their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your speaking time was short. Mr Pascalides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law which ratifys the act of legislation adopted in July, at the initiative of the Prime Minister himself and of the immediate intervention needed to restore the area in Matti, marks the beginning of the regeneration of all the regions affected. With a view to the safety and health of citizens and the protection of the environment, the immediate removal of waste, waste and any material which is generally dangerous, as was done on the land where a huge amount of fuel was collected and the cleaning of which was completed last month. It should be noted that all the hazardous materials that have been removed have been burned in blast furnaces, in accordance with the current European and Greek legislation. At the same time, direct controls are being promoted by this bill, and procedures for decommissioning asbestos are being more intensive than any construction or object, and I am referring above all to broken Ellenite roofs. At this point, I would like to stress the government's immediate response to the issue of asbestos that poses enormous risks to the health of the citizens. As has been pointed out by scientists, direct removal from the Eye of asbestos-containing materials is a matter of immediate priority, given that the most important risk to the health of residents lies in the existence of asbestos, while warning about the risks of exposure to toxic materials. The study of Doctor Demosthenis Sarigiannis, professor of the Department of Chemical Engineering of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and laboratory officer of environmental engineering, warned that the risk of carcinogenicity in the areas where there is fire contamination is approximately 50% greater than in the areas where there was no contamination, while the risk of neurodeveloping disorders for children is 21% greater. The so-called asbestos company, i.e. the removal of all hazardous asbestos materials which have been exposed to burnt houses, yards, public spaces, should have been completed by 30-12-2018, on the basis of the agreement between the SYRIZA Government and four specialised companies. However, this never happened, despite the constant appeals of those who survived the murderous fire of July 23, with the hundred dead, once and for all, to get rid of the slow and insidious death of asbestos, and they have so far fallen into the void. In addition to the oligopoly of the SYRIZA Government, what Mr Hatzidakis pointed out is that of the four hundred and seventy-five demolitions only sixty-one went ahead, of the two thousand four hundred thirty-and-a-half rehabilitation commands were carried out only three hundred forty and eighty-eight repairs only went through three hundred forty-five years. In the light of all the above, this plan provides for the implementation by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport not only of the removal of waste and waste, at the discretion of the relevant bodies and services, but also of any other action necessary to restore and regenerate the affected areas, with a view to protecting health and the citizens and protecting the environment. In fact, it is stipulated that the delegation and execution of works to the fire-fighting areas, i.e. the removal of asbestos building materials, the demolition of buildings, the temporary restoration of roads, the planting of public spaces, the restoration of a water supply network, the destruction of burnt trees, etc., will be completed by 30 October and the work will be completed by 30 June 2020 at the latest. Contracts may be awarded by a concise tender, irrespective of the estimated value of the contract. In addition, the bill provides for the setting-up of a non-profit urban company called "Mati again", aimed at promoting the development and implementation of an action plan for the region. The conditions for the effective, transparent functioning of the civil non-profit corporation are also laid down in the draft law and the company's own statutes are included, with a view to absolute transparency. In particular, the company's statute defines the organisational structure, with an increased involvement of local society and local government bodies, as well as representatives of the Court of Auditors and the General Accounting Office of the State, while the relevant Ministries and the TEI will be represented for the technological support of actions. This company will serve the public interest, but in accordance with the rules of the private economy, i.e. for reasons of speed and flexibility, while the company’s main resource will be the special account for firefighting and will be supervised by the Minister for the Interior. It should be noted that this company is prohibited from hiring. The duration will be limited, not more than one year, in order to achieve its objectives immediately, with a possibility of being strictly renewed for only one year. The draft law also provides for the development of a new model of spatial planning for the region, which aims to solve long-term problems with the cooperation of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the TEI. A special spatial plan will be drawn up by the Technical Chamber of Greece, whose role is institutional. Award of the studies is scheduled until 15 September and their completion in four months, in line with what has been committed by the TEI. Finally, as regards the immediate needs, it provides for a register of victims of forest fires, including those of last year's murderous fire, and lays down the procedure for categorizing them by way of derogation from the coverage of and disposal to them of all medicines, healing and refreshing preparations, as well as the provision of the necessary home care - including physicotherapists - and other treatments for their rehabilitation. Preparations and products include silicone gel, moisturizing ointments, antiseptics, silicone patches, gauzes, elastics and oedema pressing. The draft law also provides for an extension of the exemption from auctions and foreclosures until 31 July 2020, and will follow, as the Government Representative announced, five-year exemption from HNVY for four thousand thirty-four inhabitants. The draft law also provides for an extension of the deadline for applying for housing assistance, while extending the measure granting compensation and for fences and environments, even where the main building is not affected, at the expense of the special firearms relief account. It follows from the above that this draft law is crucial, with the sole aim of alleviating the population of the affected areas. That is why there should not be one of us who will not vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u229	We close the list of speakers with our colleague from New Democracy Mr. Theodoros Rusopoulos. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons I am speaking are two. The first, of course, is to defend the bill proposed by the government, and the second was in the course of the debate by the absentee at the moment, Mr Spirtzi, when he referred to the hairy, as he said, given by the New Democracy as Government in 2008 to Elias. He said it outrageously, as if we had played a game on the citizens' backs and forgetting exactly what happened. I begin with the second one, but it is not secondary, and it must be heard by the Step of the House at that time. We had fires in the same way as the ones we lived in Matty. We had dozens dead. The difference is that the New Democracy Government then very quickly took measures which gave citizens what they had to pay for and first of all their dignity. Because I was the rapporteur in the government committee for his case to be given money immediately to the affected, and indeed three thousand euros with a simple signature of a responsible statement and ten thousand euros with the signature of the applicant, but also with a document from either the municipality, the firehouse or other public body, this was discussed in detail, it went on to do so, and I certainly do not hide from you that on the third day - not during the Graphans, but on the one hand, there were special population groups who have rushed to exploit the first part of what I said before, namely to take three thousand euros with a simple signature, saying that they had a problem. The President-in-Office at this time, Mr Boras, will remember very well that we were candidates for the Attica region at that time. The then Prime Minister and then the President of the New Democracy asked me to go to the State ballot to coordinate issues relating to my responsibility, so I know very well at firsthand what happened at the moment on those tragic days of Elijah, which were not only Elia, because the fires were two hundred twenty fronts every day and in other parts of Greece. I remember, then, that on the third day I contacted the then chief of police telling him that I was informed of what I just mentioned and asked him to do the right thing. It is true that this afternoon at seven o'clock in Zappeion, where many journalists - and indeed all over the world - expected the information I did every day, I announced that I had fifteen names of our fellow citizens who had been illegally taken illegally, unmistakably, and asked them to return it within five days, otherwise it had two years of imprisonment. So, what I will say from now on, and which many do not know, unfortunately - and this is why Mr Spirtz has fallen victim to - is that within five days a thousand and five hundred of those who had illegally taken it, have returned it. Within six months many were arrested in nearby areas, who had taken it paradoxically. What was the government doing at that time? He told the citizen: "I trust you, I feel you have to be decent, so get some money right away to make use of it so you can get into a hotel and live, since you don't have a roof, but don't see that someone's making fun of me." So, then, what did we actually say then and what is this government doing today? It is the same thing, not only for today's bill, but in general for its policy: Trust in the citizen, quick action, results not for communication, as has been said many times by colleagues of anti-population, but because we must be close to the citizen, give him his dignity first of all, as I said before, and control. When the control comes and the other knows that it cannot violate common rules of conduct, common sense and of course legal rules, then things will gradually begin to change in this place. That's what I wanted to say about the past. I'm going to the present. Because it was said by colleagues from the Officerate that we did not bring a general plan, but a special plan for the Eye, what we are bringing today, what the government and the majority of the House support, is a plan for the Eye, because that was what it foretold because this matter was discussed thoroughly in the public sphere over the last year had to somehow find its solutions and these solutions are with the government's proposal. I fully agree with the private logic put forward by the government to a part of this urban company, the non-state, because it is certain that in this way and in what I have said before, very quickly, the people responsible for this organization will meet the needs that have been born in Eye after the fire and we will have results. The second thing I wanted to say in relation to what has been said by colleagues from Officerial Representation is that there is - it says - an attempt by the government to deal only with the problems. The figures, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. This government in the first thirty - five days brought five bills. That's the sixth one. I remind you that it was ENPIA, the final state, the operation of the municipalities, the GDPR, namely the protection of privacy and driving licences, this case of enclosing a hundred thousand drivers in our country for almost two years. So what we are doing is that we are not just working with the'show' that some have accused us of, but are mainly working with 'is', that is to say what we have to do. A few years ago I visited the British Parliament with the Prime Minister, and I remember that the head of one of the two major parties had said at most, in my opinion, of interest - and that is why I repeat - that when you are in opposition, you wake up in the morning and say what I have to say today and when you are in government, you wake up in the morning and say what I have to do today. We are in the government and we always say what we have to do and we do it quickly. SYRIZA must understand that in the opposition he can certainly make the criticism he is entitled to in constitutional terms, but under no circumstances can he try to convince us that he was ready for it, but he did not, because even the fire prevention plan was ready, but unfortunately it did not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too, Mr. Rusopulus. Mr. Spirtzi, you've asked for a second. That's five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u232	Before you give me the five minutes, Mr President, will the Minister give us an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u233	No, the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u234	Let's know where we're going to be, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u235	Let the Minister speak first and then we, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u236	The Minister's closing, Mr. Katrin. When there is a need during the debate, it intervenes. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u237	Do not give me just five minutes, Mr President. Give me two more, and I'll explain why, Mr. Bourras. I'll make a two-minute position as if I were a member of the New Democracy. And from this position I deplore Mr Rusopulou's position, the position of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Tagaras, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou. If, then, I made a position, Minister, like the ones we heard from colleagues - I do not want to name, they simply did not attend the committee from the debate that took place here and came influenced by the climate that was pre-electioned by the New Democracy as opposition - I would say in terms of the staffing of the TECF, that is, where we were accused by the New Democracy of having been ruptured, when we made TECF on the other day of the fire and the floods in Crete - the following: 'Why did you take these people and use them for the earthquake in Athens, for the damage? What about Matty and West Attica? What about 112 who sent messages to all of us, but now on two fires in Evia and New Macris, did not send a message?" And I was going to take the account I submitted before dates. He would say that on 23 July we had the tragic disaster. In relation to what Mr Russopoulos said about Elias, I accept it all. We may even disagree with what he said that we trust and then we do audits, but in order not to allow the scholars to do what they did, I will tell you what we have done, Mr Roussepoulou, and we will find a medium solution and what is best. On July 23rd was the disaster. It wasn't ten days or fifteen days when the fire burned in Elijah. The disaster was one, one and a half hours all. The next day, two areas of rehabilitation were set up. From 24 to 29 July the autopsies took place in three thousand sixty - sixty - six buildings. So, acts came out there, that this building is, yes. So no superintendent could go and say 'yes, I am' or not. And that's a responsibility. And it has not been the first time and it will have to be established on a regular basis how we can do this. A total of five thousand ninety - nine buildings were characterized in the first week. From 24 to 27 July the workshops were organized to remove vehicles from the streets. How did four hundred road vehicles get removed from the streets in Matty? Some of the inhabitants, who have been disciplined rather distorting, said that there is no problem with the road network. A joint ministerial decision was adopted on 30 July to grant exceptional one-off aid. And they were given. We don't have the same treatment. Of course, the joint ministerial decision provided for every time we have a natural disaster was also adopted to start the compensation and rehabilitation of the regions. So if I were the spirit of the New Democracy MPs, I would ask: what happened to the floods in Halkidiki two months ago? Has a joint ministerial decision been made? The answer is 'no'. Weren't seven people drowned there? Didn't we have any disasters? What about the fires in Evia? Is something starting to happen? Has a joint ministerial decision been made? The answer is 'no'. To see how easy populism is. Is the fella started in Evia? On 31 July the four centres were run and on 2 August the payments of the allowances began. I'm reading the report. Also, Mr Stamenitis, because you said nothing was done on 31 July, a free new bus line entered the region. Nothing happened? On August 1, seven days later, logging began. It's been a lot longer than the fires now. On 8 August, the region was delimited with 100% free state aid and it was 133 million only from the EDP. And we will continue, on 10 August, to remove asbestos products, on 20 August, the demolitions of the buildings began on 27 August, on 3 September, the cleaning of the areas which had taken place decades, on 25 October, the new repair tariff, because we did not have a repair invoice for firefighting, until 3 January, we changed the laws and everything that existed in the legislation and in the last sixty years, and for the Eye a few times to meet the needs of each citizen, on 3 January we started the reconstruction by volunteer engineers, on 15 February we institutionalised the inconsistency of the repair in order to be able to meet other needs, on 6 March we had the restoration of the environment which was first and all the rest that I would not expand because it is too much and I have testified it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, Mr President, and Minister, I shall begin my position. So it is very easy if we wanted to keep a communication tactic of populism, to have started it in the first two months. And really - now I see Nikos Tagaras, with whom we had close cooperation - we won't. We're not doing it, Niko. However, we will show some communication fireworks that have even been in these meetings. He says, "Well, since 38 million of the special account, you didn't use anything?" And that was said, when we have 133 million from the EDP, plus 49 million of programme contracts made by the Ministry of Infrastructure, plus the money provided by the region, plus - now I see Theanos - others. To create one picture, you say "Well, you only absorbed six and a half million from the special account?" when we have exceeded 200 million. I wish this commitment and those decisions that the government has made to keep them. Is it reasonable, however, now that the 38 million - which the 36.5 million people have given to public bodies - have given it to show that the account is moving, that we get the 10 million ECU back as a state? Or take 500 thousand or 1 million to become a special peasant? Second communal myth: there have been delays, he says. And I ask you, Minister, as a technocrat and as a Minister, to come at some point, like Mr Rousopoulos and those who have dealt with and served in such positions, and to compare this disaster with other disasters and how they were dealt with in the first 12 months or in the first three years. Because I, who served as Minister of Infrastructure, found hundreds of loose ends from the Kozani earthquake, Elijah, Egypt, Kefalonia, hundreds of unfinished buildings and housing for citizens. Mr. Stamenitis, you know that from your area. Let's go down a little bit, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u238	Let's close, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u239	Just a moment, Mr President, to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u240	Excuse me, but you have spoken a lot more than I see in the Minutes and in the prototype. Don't repeat the same things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u241	I haven't repeated that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u242	Close, please, because you're already nine minutes away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u243	I was challenged.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u244	In a minute, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u245	I close even though I have a lot to say, because we didn't mock the civilians, and Mr. Economou didn't even care about them in his location in the area. Some people are petting them. It's okay. So I'm going through the PPP and the draft law, Minister, and I'm closing. I take what Mr Hatzidakis said as self-criticism that he made to himself and to the New Democracy and we will respond and do the following proposals, if you like, to move forward: First of all, as we have said at the beginning, we will be together with anyone who tries to speed up the procedures and improve the lives of the people of the region and all the rest. Therefore, although we disagree with the provisions, we shall vote 'yes', Mr Economou, and let not have given the explanations you should have given as a government. However, we would like to say to Mr Hatzidakis, who has a governmental experience, that in every natural disaster there are people - and he should know it after so many years of experience - who are trying to speculate on natural disasters and earthquakes and fires. The whole world knows. So don't wonder. Of course, our proposals are, in the case of both the AMKE and the Technical Chamber and all the others, to legislate on the procedures to be legislated and to say that EASAY will be in a difficult position, because you will also bring EASA to bear. EASA, if it operates in accordance with its framework, must report to the European Commission and to this draft law and to what is envisaged for the changes you have made to previous draft laws. Not to do, especially the government - because they are just two months government - legal pirates. The above violence is judged on a case-by-case basis. You have very reliable partners. They had served. Vice President at EADESY was the partner who was with Mr. Hatzidakis. It is not generally judged on a draft law to say that it is above violence. If there's more force than a special peasant, let's say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Spirtzi, close up. You've made me very difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u247	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u248	No, it's over. You're done. Thank you very much, but that was a new prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, three more seconds. It's not new because we got that evidence after the answers. So this violence must be above all violence for both the next region and for Lavrio, for Corinth, for Halkidiki, in order not to mourn other victims. There is even greater violence. In addition, and I conclude, all our experience is at the disposal of the government, Mr Ministers, in order - and we find this - to tell you - in a year's time from today - that you have set a timetable not to come here and force us to say 'Nothing has happened', but not to words, not communications, because we believe that we will be stuck with what we expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi. Mr. Gioka, you have five minutes for your dentistry with tolerance, for there to be a fair treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u251	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. We have explained very thoroughly why we have serious reservations that this draft law will effectively address the problems that both residents and operators have identified in the committee and we are aware of from our own experience. We are voting in the'residents' bill, and the reason why we vote'residents' is because there are indeed some provisions on burners and others that are necessary. But we have a radical disagreement that the whole design and regeneration of the area is entrusted to an urban non-profit company, which, in our view, is the core of the bill. That is why we are voting 'at present'. If it were only the company, we would vote against the bill. The second issue I wanted to raise, which is more general, is the following. It was said by both SYRIZA Members and Members of the New Democracy and other Members: in such matters, which are sensitive - and of course the fire in Matti was a sensitive issue and has been linked to many deaths - there must be no political controversy. This is correct with regard to a small-scale exploitation that is sometimes carried out. But that is another issue, and it is another matter that we should not have a global political controversy. Problems are political. Good or badly political are the problems and they are the consequences of specific policies. It is neither the bad of our roots nor the God who hates us in general and abstractly in terms of climate change and extreme phenomena. There are extreme phenomena, but there are also extreme shortcomings and extreme policies. These policies have been implemented and implemented by parties and governments. Therefore, not only is political controversy legitimate, in our view necessary and mandatory in order to claim solutions. The second question, Mr President, which I would like to raise because I have not been able to do anything with the amendment by the Ministry of Justice. We have expressed our fundamental opposition as a party to the mediation institution in terms of the administration of justice and even more with the mandatory nature of this, because, in our view, it is a particular type of private justice that will benefit the financially powerful and also at the expense of the quality of justice. In our opinion, therefore, the problem is not tackled by the suspension of the provision made by the government or by what assumptions the compulsoryity will apply. In our opinion, we must abolish Law 4512/2018 on the compulsory mediation, which was the law of the SYRIZA, regardless of whether it is now trying to keep a distance from the compulsory mediation because the legal world is against it. There is the decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay, there is the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, there is yesterday's plenary session of the Presidents of the Bar Associations who decided to mobilise if this measure is implemented. So the solution is not suspension, extension. The solution is to abolish this measure of compulsory private mediation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mr. Tagaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. I have nothing to add to, I would just like to make an observation by closing down. I think that the debate has been going on in a very good climate and, after a national tragedy, we must all learn from each other and become better off not to happen again. They were useful and creative interventions. Several answers and clarifications have been given by the relevant ministers. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, we are, of course, positive both in the bill and in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Tagaras. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, we will expect the Minister to speak first and then sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u256	Look. If you want me to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u257	You can answer me, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u258	In the morning, Minister Hatzidakis spoke for about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u259	We need to listen to the State Secretary, see if he has anything to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u260	The Undersecretary will close...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u261	But how does that work? We have to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u262	Where's it coming from? So, I'm going to enforce when every minister is going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u263	No, you won't. We need to listen to the Minister, tell us if he has any suggestions or improvements...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u264	You heard the Minister this morning, he was placed, placed, the government hears what you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u265	Exactly what you're saying. The Minister was posted this morning and the parliamentary representatives were posted. That's the right turn. We have placed ourselves on the government's statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u266	If you have anything to add, you have the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u267	We'll talk and then the Minister will come in and make some additions and we won't be able to talk again? But is that a proper procedure? The Undersecretary will speak, as Mr. Hatzidakis spoke this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u268	I don't understand. The Minister spoke. The bill was discussed in detail and indeed by calling agencies as not to be due, but it was positive. As you know, because you have experience, there are no bodies called and yet they were called and they were useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u269	That is a matter for the committee, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u270	No, it's not a board decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u271	No, that's a matter of committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u272	Secondly, the Minister was placed in committee as well as in the morning. I wasn't here, but I looked at the times. Placed for nineteen minutes and twenty-two seconds. From there on, you have spoken both the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives and placed you. The government is listening, and from there on, the Minister will answer, according to what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u273	I would therefore like to place myself after the appointment of the Secretary-General. In any case, you were due after the Parliamentary Representative and the rapporteur of the New Democracy to go on the basis of the parliamentary order of the parties. You have addressed me while bypassing SYRIZA's parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u274	No, you asked me for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u275	I don't know if it happened because I'm downtown.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u276	You asked me for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u277	I, therefore, say that I would like to speak after the Secretary-General's speech, if that is permitted by you. And I imagine it applies to all parliamentarians. If you don't allow it, you'll make me sit now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u278	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, put things in a row. Can the Minister answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u279	Let me speak for two minutes. I'll make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u280	Mr Katrin, I give you the floor to take advantage of the time you are entitled to under the Rules of Procedure of this House. In your time, however, if the Minister speaks, I will not reopen the debate. If you need to make one or two clarifications, I will give this right. You want to place in turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u281	I have a right to dentology and tritology and you do me the favor of giving me time? Don't I have a right to dentology and tritology?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u282	Okay. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I would like to make it easier for you, because you have a long parliamentary experience, and I also know the modesty and democratic dimension that you always give to the procedures. It's true. Mr. Hatzidakis has spoken a long time. We have, however, raised specific questions which you have seen as having contributed. And despite the fact that we have strong reservations about many issues and questions that we raised, and even though we did not receive clean answers during the debate, we said that we would vote positively. I don't want to take a second time. I do, however, have the right, in representing our parliamentary group, to hear the Minister, if questions or questions arise, to ask for clarification. That is what I would like to ask. I am not asking for a second, because I believe that we have said and raised matters. But we want to hear answers. The Secretary-General in the committee has made a great effort and we recognize it. We hope today that he will give us clear answers to clear questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u284	Thank you for helping me. Mr. Villard has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u285	I won't take your time long. I just wanted to say that we have referred in detail to the problems of the bill, especially as regards the non-profit company, which wants to establish the public. We hope that all the things we have mentioned will be taken into account by the government and will be able to make the necessary corrections. However, because we believe that this whole process should go because of the inhabitants of the region, we will be voting in favour of the bill, despite the objections we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, too. So I will call on the State Secretary now to speak and, if necessary, you will be able to take the floor for two minutes, in order to make any objections, if you have not received a reply, a proposal or what you think. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Many issues have been raised. I should have been talking for an hour to answer everything. I'll make a choice. Many of the issues that have been raised today, but also in the committee, are of more general importance. They can't answer today because they're not objects of the bill. There has been a great debate, for example, on the content of the studies on how to deal with urban problems. This is a later matter. We will have too much time to consider it when the studies begin to run. I will confine myself to a number of issues that are directly related to today's bill. First of all, I'd like to respond to something that was set up by Mr. Famello. He asked if the horrific 500,000 contest that was cancelled would happen again. It's going to be real fast again. So that is a clear commitment and an explicit answer. On the subject raised by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou about the possibility of including in the text of the bill that pre-contractual control and repressive control remain, I would not object. The lawyers have told us that it is a legal error, because it is already provided for by the Constitution and by the general legislation, and therefore it is pointless to repeat it in this bill. The Minister, however, stated very clearly this morning that both pre-contractual control and repressive. These are in the Minutes of the House. The minutes of the House may be used for interpretative reasons when the subject is raised. In any case, the House may at any time reintroduce the matter if it sees that something has happened which is not right. So we do not put it into the text for the reasons I have told you, but I fully confirm that it is true. By the way, there's something else I can say. Yesterday we signed a cooperation protocol with ESDC with the expertise it has, but also with its role, to respect all the necessary procedures during the contracts. This will also cover the case of studies here in Eye, but also other cases, because very quickly the Ministry of the Environment will allocate a very large number of studies. Very quickly, in about a month or so we will bring the matter to the House. There's just going to be E.S.A. that's going to be monitored permanently. A third issue, which has been raised, is the issue of Kineta and on this occasion, in general the need to establish permanent procedures for the prevention of disasters in order to cover disaster victims. As I said to the committee - I am simply saying this again today to have been said in plenary - we will bring about a draft law on Kineta very quickly, as well as legislation on the permanent existence of forecasts, which will cover the victims of similar disasters in advance, which we hope will not happen. So wait a while and you will be able to judge whether we have covered this commitment or not. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, and other Members, have referred to the issue of AMKE, on various aspects. One aspect, of course, is the responsibility of the members of the Management Board. Another aspect is staffing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u288	And political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u289	Political responsibility is given. It'll look pretty fast. However, above all, the other issues which are fundamental, we take them into account very seriously. Evidently, AMKE didn't set up with this bill. This is the first step. There will be other steps in which such issues will be dealt with and you will have the opportunity to rejoin and judge what we are going to do. That's the answer. So I answered these three issues. I would like to come to the subject of the special spatial plan to which the Minister referred this morning. He said that the pre-approval procedure was unnecessary and then opposing opinions were heard by parliamentarians. So let's see what exactly has happened with the special spatial plan. First of all, it has been heard within the House, but also within it, that the bill removes competences from the Ministry of the Environment. No responsibility shall be removed. The responsibilities of the Ministry of the Environment are as far as approval is concerned, as are monitoring. These remain absolutely in the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment will also approve the studies, and that is what is needed on this subject. What is assigned to the Technical Chamber is what can be done at any time to an institution that has the right to draw up and submit studies. That's all there is anyway. It has nothing to do with the Ministry. It can be done by the Ministry, but tens of others can do it. That does not deprive us of responsibility. The responsibilities we have, we maintain them completely and we will monitor them closely. Secondly, I think that Mr Famello has been raised by Mr Famelos, but perhaps by others, it is what will happen with the rhetoric, that is to say if the special spatial plan when it is adopted, which we hope will be next summer, it will also include arrangements for the rhetoric. No one has ever said that the special spatial plan will also include a streamlined implementation plan. Not even the pre-approval said so. If you see the pre-authorization, it does not indicate at any point that at the next stage of the process, which is the definitive urban study, it will also be incorporated in a rimotomy implementation plan. He doesn't say so. Why doesn't he say it? Perhaps from a choice, but there are also practical reasons, because it takes too much time. Historical designs in Greece to be approved require fifteen, twenty, thirty years. We cannot make a commitment in advance, therefore, that in a very short time we will also have regulation. Obviously very quickly, as far as December is concerned, it will also be entrusted with an implementation plan from the TEI. I cannot make a commitment to having completed the process by the summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u290	But, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u291	I'm sorry, just one moment to finish, 'cause I'm gonna lose my heart, I'm tired, I'm too old! What I am sure is that the rhetoric will progress very quickly and in any case much faster than the twenty and thirty years that it usually takes. We also have in mind, and there will be in the bill that we will bring in about one month and some specific measures to regulate the regulation of the special spatial plan in Matti, so that it is possible for issues that are generally not directly applicable after the adoption of a specific spatial plan, which is a general urban plan level not far enough - much so, in this case - to have immediate implementation. We'll tell you more when the matter has matured. But that we are thinking about it and we know about it, of course we know it. Next step. It has been requested - I remember Mr Famello, but also others - that we be placed on whether we are bound by the arrangements that exist in the pre-approval. Under the pre-approval arrangements, the only ones that are regulatory, that is to say, binding, are those relating to land use and conditions of construction. All the other things mentioned in the pre-approval are directions. The guidelines are not binding, they are an indication that is taken into account depending on the circumstances and on the feasibility and weighting of other parameters. So what is binding, that is, the uses of land, I say to you - without prejudice to what I will say next - is that they will be observed. As far as the building factor is concerned, there is a legal error in the specific spatial plan for it. The average was to be reported and not maximum. This may seem insignificant, but for those who know it means a lot. It's badly mentioned as a maximum. There had to be a means. Perhaps the average was different. In any case, to the extent that this can be done, we will also maintain this provision, which was in the mind of those who drafted the special spatial plan. All the rest are indicative and therefore to the extent possible, and this will be seen from the next studies, whether they are maintained or not. In any case there will also be a justification for criticism. Now we're going to the last thing. The Minister said the procedure of the special spatial plan was superfluous. What do we mean, superfluous? You will allow me to become a little analyst in order to make it clear what we mean. We mean that, firstly, the procedure for drawing up specific spatial plans is initiated by the Ministry of the Environment, either by the municipality concerned or by the region concerned, or by the body implementing the project and programme. There are four alternatives. These four may alternatively be expedient, but it is always adopted by a presidential decree proposed by the Minister for the Environment. So the Minister for the Environment at all times approves it, but it can be one of the four fast-track alternatives. Pre-approval is an additional procedure foreseen by law, which says exactly what? It says that specific spatial plans may be amended earlier local spatial plans, residential control zones, etc., i.e. plans which provide for regulatory land use and building conditions, following a prior approval granted by a decision of the Secretary-General of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment. I was also in the committee that drafted the law. Obviously we did not mean that when the Ministry, the Ministry, the RIS, should submit to itself or the Secretary-General of the RIS to submit to itself the pre-approval, the Secretary-General should say 'yes' and then rediscover the final draft again to the Ministry of the Environment and the Secretary-General should say 'we are in agreement'. It would be a bureaucratic process that would not make any sense. What is the point of predicating what the RIS suggests to itself?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u292	Can I talk to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u293	No, I'm sorry. Of course you can then. It doesn't make any sense. It's absurd. It's obvious to me. In the discussions of the committee - and there will be in the Minutes too - it was said that the pre-approval was limited to the bodies of implementation, not to the public, to the private. And that is what the letter of the law says: the pre-approval is granted upon submission of an application by the implementing body. I would remind you that the implementation agency is one of the four potential accelerators. The other three are the regions, the municipalities and the RIS. Why does he say it there? What was the reasoning? The reasoning was - I had disagreed, I had been unnecessary - that the private body would not be subjected to the costs of preparing all the studies, but that it would have received an initial approval of the uses of land or not, so that it would know that it could or could not continue. That was the point and it appears explicitly in the Minutes. Any other wording would be unreasonable. That's my opinion. To me, that interpretation is self-evident. Let us assume, however, that there was a different interpretation of the legal aspect, because I do not think there can be a legal interpretation. It makes no sense for the Ministry to submit to itself a pre-authorization which will then approve the same, especially when it comes to a case such as Eye, which was obviously an extraordinary need, absolute, to proceed as quickly as possible. So what would that mean? Approximately one year could be allowed to be approved in order to grant the pre-authorisation. If, therefore, there were any doubts about the correct interpretation of this legal provision, a question could either be raised at the Legal Council of State quickly or a legislative arrangement could be made which would clarify exactly what we mean and what is happening in this particular case. That's what they'd eat for a month. So instead of about one year we would have consumed a month for this job. From there on, there's a continuity. In any case, this has been done. The question arises: Was it unnecessary? Was it useless what happened? It was not useless, but the technical report of the pre-approval is about one-fifth of the studies in terms of study weight and approval procedures, which we must then have until final approval. If you see the specifications of the technical report, they are ten lines and the specifications of the urban study, which is one of the seven - eight studies required, are seven pages. It is clear, then, that it took eight - nine months - to say about now, I may make a mistake - to do something that was insignificant in terms of a study procedure. We have therefore lost this time that we could use it for the other studies that could have been done in the first place. Obviously, there are things that are useful in the technical report and will be exploited, but we did not need to waste all this time to do these little things when we have such a titanic project in front of us. Furthermore - one might disagree - and there is also this clear - that the pre-authorisation study could also start the other studies required for the final study, namely traffic, geological, strategic environmental impact study, forest study, raft studies and others, such as plumbing study, and I can refer to others. These could start just the same day. They shall not be affected by what is specified in the pre-approval. Pre-authorisation shall specify only the uses of land and the conditions of construction. These arrangements do not affect other studies. They could, with a small exception, proceed with the strategic environmental impact study, but to a large extent, it is still not affected. Could've been in the department that was affected waiting to get the approval. But he knew he would take it, because the pre-approval had been requested by the RIS from himself. It would be completely unreasonable to assume that he will not give it. Then why did he eat all these months?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u294	I will answer you if the President gives me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u295	Answer me. But I am saying my own view. So I am not saying all of this in any way in a opposition mood. You will notice that I have never raised this issue in committee or in committee today. However, because it was raised after several - the Minister said so carefully and asked questions - I had to answer and make clear. That's why I'm answering. I didn't try to bring it up, nor will I try to put it up in the future. We'll use what we can. I recognise, like others, that both the committee and today the climate has been very good. Of course, everyone in various matters has his views. This is perfectly legitimate and understandable, especially in the House. But the climate was positive. That is what we will try to use. We should all go together - or almost all of us together - so that we can get as quickly as possible the kinds of projects that are needed to get the area started in Matti and regenerate. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You will allow me to thank him in particular, invoking the testimony of all of you, as a Member of the West Attica, but also an old Eastern Attica, because he said today that he will soon come to a solution and the major problems of Kineta - and not only so that I do not blame the other regions - where on the same day the tragic fire in Matti has been a very great disaster in Kineta. I feel very pleased that I was the chairman of the Kineta Municipality and the chairman of the local associations and actually informed the committee. And I am very pleased, Mr Minister, that you said officially from this Step - and it is also written in the Minutes - that the solution to the Kineta problem will come soon. In order to finish properly and nicely, I will give the floor not to you, Mr Spirtzi - you will find it difficult - but to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, who is a parliamentary representative of your party, for two - three minutes or as much as necessary. If you can, please limit your time. Then, if he wishes, I will give the floor to Mr Katrin. I don't know if anyone in New Democracy wants to speak. If the Minister wants, he can close the debate. I will give you the floor for a short time, however. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. I will be very brief. First of all, I would like to make two comments and then ask two questions, points. First of all, and without doubt, we accept what you and the Minister have said, that the principles of repressive and pre-contractual control will clearly function. In any case, we in Parliament will observe them and monitor them. We'd rather he'd be inside. But we accept what you say. We have no reason to question it. After all, this is our country's legal order. If it is not followed, there will be many other problems. We think it is an answer - because we did not have an answer all these days for the spatial plan - what you said you would rely on these points. As far as the guidelines are concerned, we urge you to take these into account too. Of course, you'll examine them. That will also be a matter for us to follow. So for these two answers, Mr President, we want to thank the Minister. I would like to ask three questions, points of order. It is clear, Minister, that as far as this company is concerned, we have not received any answers. The fact is that the government was not ready, that you have unfortunately brought this company, because it was announced in the programme statements - that is the finding - without having been processed. This does not, of course, contribute to the speed you want to give. We are here because I imagine that legislation is going to be in place which specialises all these issues, from company to company, and all these issues, because otherwise this company cannot be legally registered. We simply want to tell you to reconsider, since you will continue, because you will certainly have too many administrative and legal problems. As far as the technical Chamber is concerned, we want and hope you will submit it to the House. This is something for which we will also return to parliamentary control. There must be transparency on these issues. As far as - and I close - this programme agreement you signed with the Single Public Procurement Authority, I would like to express my concern as both a Member and a legal person. I cannot imagine how an independent authority makes a programme agreement on issues that it must grant permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u298	It's not a programme contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u299	Maybe you can explain it to us. That's the one question to take the floor. I express a reservation. I conclude by saying that, Mr President, as our rapporteur has said, although we have strong reservations and objections because of the purpose and feasibility, we will vote in principle, but of course, as our role as a Qualified Opposition, we will always monitor with the possibility of making a very close contribution to implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u300	Thank you to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and to keep time with little tolerance. Mr Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we would also like to express our satisfaction at the Minister's public commitment that there will be such care for the regions affected by the murderous fires, but not just in the legislative context that we are debating today, as is the case with Kinetta - and not just in the case of Kineta. Because all citizens must feel that they have equal treatment from the state, regardless of whether we have mourned victims or not. Obviously it is of particular importance, but there was also a disaster of natural environment and property, and I think the state should come and "promote them". Because of the nature of the bill we are discussing, the legislative instrument, and despite the fact that we have some minor objections, Mr President, in relation to the company's statute, I think that the nature of this bill and the general mood in plenary obliges everyone to be positive in principle and to vote in favour, precisely because the purpose is important. And the aim is healing, it is relief, it is the practical proof of the state that even when fatality occurs, something which is dramatically changing people's lives, comes there and gives solutions, gives answers, really ensures and acts relievingly but much more - and I think that this should be a conclusion of today's sitting - we should act as a precautionary one in order to avoid such natural disasters in the future. For us, Mr President - and we have said so in our first place - it is equally important not to take responsibility for this unprecedented tragedy by the competent authorities. At some point we will have to discuss what was to be done, where the investigation that has taken place in the courthouse is, and why some have chosen to adopt the role of Pontius Pilate in order to protect their political personal capital, but obviously devalued the danger and unfortunately fatal it has been done. In conclusion, I cannot avoid saying, as Mr Rusopoulos referred to the fires of Elijah in 2007, and because I listened to the Members of the New Democracy, not unnecessarily - and I conclude with this - about how, while there was a disaster with forty-nine human lives, within one day, the government turned the world to get hair and came to Elijah from all over Greece, thousands of uncontrolled, and now the only issue was who is entitled and who is not entitled to take that aid that the government considered to give relief to Elijah's wounded. I think, therefore, that we should be a little more enthusiastic and more self-sufficient when we talk about communication management, particularly when Mr Karamanlis' government has shown this way with unsuccessful results that have caused side effects. Mr Rusopoulos was right to say that an attempt was made to heal, but that was never possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, too, Mr. Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I too would like the floor on personal grounds to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u305	Wait a minute, because staff always precedes under the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u306	I'll explain the staff under the Rules of Procedure in a minute and if you're judged to be personal, I'll answer. It is personal when a colleague of another party or of the same party is mentioned to someone and to the policy that he has followed, not least because he mentions that he has become a communication policy here, as he has at least been wrongly used to - the public thinks in a major subject to which human lives have been lost - it is like blaming his colleague that when he was in a position, as I was at the time of the relevant Minister or the Government representative, he was more interested in the image - which was speaking in her own image, there were fires and dead bodies - and less the substance. So if you are judging that it is of personal value, I would like two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u307	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u309	For the same reason we want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Spirtzi, don't abuse some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u311	But I call for the same reason, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u312	You know I let you talk 12 minutes out of the five minutes you had. Here, Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Katrin for the proposal, which may have been made by a university. He does not know that many universities have been involved at that time and many postgraduate programmes. Students have come many times during the decade to ask me for information on how we managed that crisis. The same happened three years ago when, as a professor at the European University of Cyprus, my colleague was invited on the occasion of my own experience with the fires of Elias at the Cyprus Ministerial Council to discuss management, as happened in Elia. So it is a case study, as he said. I'm sorry I can't use a Greek expression. I don't like to use vocalism usually. So I thank him very much for that. Secondly, in the ancient market, Mr President, which was a little below, in order to convince your argument, it was necessary for them to listen to you, because there were no microphones like now - to listen to you the last of the Athenians who participated in the market, to have an argument that is not just a communication argument, but to have substance to the political argument of the speaker. Communication, Mr President, is one of the two tracks on which the political train runs. If there is no policy substance, communication in itself falls very quickly, falls like a bubble. What I want to remind you - by closing down - to my dear colleague, who is elected to Elias, that following those elections New Democracy in Elijah, the dead have increased its strength, has increased its seats in Parliament. If he suggests that we made fun of the citizens and they are so naive to vote for us, then I think he should apologise to the people who vote for him. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, I would like to speak because he referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u316	Let's not keep talking. No, you don't have the floor. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u317	But he referred to me. I have to take the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u318	There isn't now, you don't have anything personal, nothing personal is created. You referred to the issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u319	He was very ironic, Mr. Russopoulos, and I have to answer him in the same way, as he insists in this way. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm asking for the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u320	Please, Mr. Catherine. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor as the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. A few points, I'll track down. First of all, we likewise welcome the fact that the Minister, following the speeches made by the whole of the opposition, deleted from the relevant provision the derogation on the pre-contractual and repressive control of the Court of Auditors. However, at the moment in particular, there is a contradiction. On the one hand, keep pre-contractual control, on the other hand, there is a derogation from the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The pre-contractual review concerns public procurement. We still do not understand why there is a derogation from this particular legislation. What is the service of this derogation, whereas for pre-contractual and repressive control you have made the necessary correction? We believe that the framework of the company statutes is blurred. We should take into account our speeches and comments on the responsibilities of the members of the Management Board. We believe that the subsequent regulation of liability by bills is too precarious. We're skeptical. Of course we would like to be well-advanced in this regard. However, if it had been provided for under the statutes in the bill, there would have been a preventive control and regulation of these responsibilities. Finally, I would like to ask a question for clarification. You have added, with the legislative improvements in the course of the debate, a paragraph 13 to Article 2. This paragraph still applies - in the final text in our hands - to the spatial plan and the derogations from public procurement provisions, but also to the use of the exceptional provisions of Union law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. Minister, you can close by answering if you wish to those colleagues who have asked questions or closed the sitting and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much. As far as cooperation is concerned, I would like to say that with EFSA that it is not a programme agreement. It is a cooperation protocol for which EFSA has assured us that it is within its sphere of competence, namely that it can do so with ministries. It'll help us with the expertise we don't have to make mistakes. He told us - and I suppose he knows - that it is something that is absolutely legitimate. On the subject of the derogation in public procurement, which was raised by PART25, I said, I think, but you may not have heard it - and for the specific spatial plan, for the studies of the Technical Chamber, the addition 'on the basis of Union legislation' applies. The House will be informed about the programming contract with the TEI. I'm saying this because I didn't answer before. That is what I would like to say and thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Minister. Before I finish my debate, I should like to say that both in the committee, which I watched as a Member of the region and in the House there was a very good debate because it was very much the subject that was discussed in this bill. I believe that the Bureau has demonstrated the tolerance it needed in every direction, so that better legislation is facilitated. The debate is closed in principle, on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Follow it from 24.07.2019 BC. " Take measures to address immediate risks and needs in the areas of the East Attica Regional Unit affected by the fires of 23 July 2018" ( A' 127 ), the establishment and statute of the company " Eye Again" and other provisions. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u331	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Structuring it from 24.07.2019 B.C. The adoption of measures to address immediate risks and needs in the regions of the Eastern Atlantic Regional Unit affected by the fires of 23 July 2018' ( 127 ), the establishment and statute of the company " Eye Again" and other provisions has been accepted in the first place by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u338	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u345	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the amendment with a general figure of 40 and a special figure of 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u352	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 40 and a special 3 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u359	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Follow it from 24.07.2019 P.M. ‘Application of measures to address immediate risks and needs in the regions of the Eastern Atlantic Regional Unit affected by the fires of 23 July 2018’ (A' 127), the recommendation and the statute of the company ‘Mati Again’ and other provisions’, was accepted in principle and in the majority of articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. He's asking the House. Is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u366	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Follow it from 24.07.2019 P.M. ‘Application of measures to address immediate risks and needs in the regions of the Eastern Atlantic Regional Unit affected by the fires of 23 July 2018’ (A' 127), the recommendation and the statute of the company ‘Mati Again’ and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u368	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-11-S1-commons.u369	With the consent of the House at 18.18 minutes the sitting shall be closed.
