ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, on Thursday, 28 November 2019, that the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, to which Novotaou is addressed, is impossible. Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, at the annual meeting of the OECD World Strategy Group in Paris and the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs 231/18-11-2019, 240/25-11-2019, 246/25-11-2019 and 261/26-11-2019 topical questions, due to obstruction, participation in a government mission abroad, participation in the annual meeting of the OECD World Strategy Group in Paris. The topical and urgent debate is as follows. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 232/19-11-2019 current question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 221/18-11-2019, 236/20-11-2019, 264/26-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 238/21-11-2019 topical question will be answered by the Minister of Justice Mr. Konstantinos Tsiara. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 219/18-11-2019, 227/18-11-2019, 230/18-11-2019, 241/25-11-2019, 250/25-11-2019 and 262/26-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 249/25-11-2019, 251/26-11-2019 and 260/26-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Georgios Papandreou is calling for a short-day absence. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak on the announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u5	Please, you have the floor for a minute, so that we do not delay both the Minister and Mrs Liikolis, who are consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have taken the floor for announcing the impossibility of the Deputy Minister, Mr Mtarakis, and of the State Secretary, Mrs Michailidou, for questions which are the responsibility of Mr Brutsis. I would like to place in the Minutes the responsibilities of both the Secretary-General and the Minister. The Minister is always in charge. All questions are addressed to the Ministers, we never ask questions to the State Secretarys. The Minister shall have the general responsibility of each Ministry's policy. For the first time I have seen ministers with limited responsibilities. The secret can't go on, Mr. President. Because some figures are presented - all right, they are improved in relation to SYRIZA - but today we have the Directorate-General for Labour, for example, the Ministry of Labour, which is the responsibility of Mr Brutsis, so we have the socially beneficial programmes, which we call for the extension and the launch of the new programme, and in particular for forest fires and social structures, and the Minister says: 'A, that is the responsibility of Mr Metarakis'. I am looking for Mr Mitarakis' responsibilities and he has nothing to do with it. Mr. Mitarakis has nothing to do with the Directorate-General for Labour. I therefore consider that there is a huge problem here, including within the Ministry of Labour. We are therefore asking Mr Brutsis to come and reply to us about the announcements made by Mr Metarakis on the funds which will take over the outstanding debts of the CRL and says Mr Brutsis is the responsibility of Mr Metarakis. It's not. It says here that these powers concerning the ECA and the collection of insurance contributions are exercised by the Minister. So what does the Ministry of Labour tell us? That he doesn't know who has responsibility and what responsibilities?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u7	Good, Mr Kegeroglu, we understood that. We don't enter the Ministry's interiors, the people in charge will hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I too would like to speak on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u9	What about you now, Mr. Comrade? Proceedings?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u10	Of course, because I have a point, Mr President. If I may, there are two questions which are excluded and addressed to the Minister. In particular, it is the 240/25-11-2019 and the 222/18-11-2019. One clearly relates to the JRC, and the other clearly concerns the workers who are in the social work programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Kegeroglu said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u12	After Mr Kegeroglu said so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u13	He said it because it's his. Excuse me, Minister of Justice, just a minute. These are questions tabled by a particular Member. They are excluded from the logic and on the grounds that it is out of hand or that Mr Metatakis is abroad. However, it is clear from the FEK that these powers in any case, apart from the fact that it does not appear very clearly to be the responsibility of Mr Mitsarakis, they shall in any event be exercised at the same time. I therefore consider it unjustified to refuse - because it is, in fact, a matter of denial - to be a topical issue, particularly for workers in the socially beneficial labour programmes and, above all, for forest workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis, and Mr Kegeroglu have said so. We will not enter the interior of the Ministries, that is not our responsibility. The people who had to hear it, they heard it. So we begin the debate with the third under number 238/21-11-2019 on a topical question from the Member of the Larissa Parliamentary Movement of Change Mr. Evangelias Liangolis to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Directly the need to remove asbestos materials from the Larissa Court". The Minister of Justice will answer Mr. Tsiara. Here, Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we all know that asbestos is a particularly harmful material for human health, for public health, because it is undoubtedly a carcinogen now. There have been in-depth studies, which have been in place for many years since 2005, and have been officially posted on medical pages, have been published in the relevant magazines and the competent scientists have now come to an end. That is why the state has often taken the initiative to replace even asbestos water pipes. As you are well aware, in Thessaly - we also have the Thessalonica Minister for Justice - unfortunately we had endless kilometres of such pipes. However, the existence of asbestos is even found in the most amazing places. One of these points, unfortunately, is the Grand Court of Larissa. With my own self-defence, Minister, I have unfortunately found that there is no room to worry about. And I'm saying that very seriously. I will produce in the minutes for your own use two photos of the many of the things I've taken and shown the situation. I'll give them to you to see. There are huge stains on the floors, where asbestos mortar is now evident and overlaps all surfaces. So we're not talking about something we can imagine. So let us say that in this old building, which is one of the demands of the Association of Judiciary officials and of the whole country in constant mobilisation, we have this very big problem. The employees are over these lacquers every day. The officials, the citizens, the judges, the prosecutors and everyone are walking. The Ministry, I imagine, is equally seriously concerned. So we wait with great anxiety and many people see us today. I've been notified, you know. And they are very anxiously awaiting your answer, which we hope will be absolutely positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, I would like to thank you for this question. Not only because you give me the opportunity to stress in every direction that public health is one of the absolute priorities of this government, but because I think that in the 21st century these issues should be dealt with literally from the beginning. So to question whether the state should intervene in order to improve or remove materials that we know very well that are affecting public health, I think it is a position in which one can only join with an absolute degree. However, I want you to know the following. Although I do not question the pictures you have shown, which may reflect reality in the Ministry of Justice - and this is in full official documents - there have never been any questions to ask about replacing materials related to asbestos in the Larissa Court. I say this not because it is not really the case, but because sometimes we need to discover the right path, the real path through which demands should actually shape a reality of intervention. From our point of view, from the very beginning that my own duties have been carried out, there is the very great interest in improving all the buildings, all the judiciaries in the country. That is why we are also calling on the administrations of the judiciary to tell us what problems they have, so that any necessary funding on the one hand, and the necessary projects, can be completed. You mentioned many issues in your question, of course, focusing on the basic question of the replacement of asbestos tiles. So I will tell you that all the other issues that you referred to concerning electrical installations, security measures, the telephone centre or even the integrity of Judge Larissa have actually been answered. And they have been answered because the necessary appropriations have been approved in the course of the last few years, with the result that the issues you raised actually do not exist today. In addition, I will tell you that not even in the Ministry's technical service has a request has been sent on the existence of asbestos in the building housed by the Larissa Court. And, of course, you should be aware that in order to remove these materials, very specific procedures are needed. It's not just a case. There must be a specific technical step that will remove these materials, because their removal to a possible second degree may cause even greater problems. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I also want to inform you that the existence of asbestos in materials of an area is normally certified by the "Democritus". It is not a procedure that I, you or any judicial officer or court official could judge and say what is or what is not any material. Finally, I want to assure you that in the planned energy upgrade of the Larissa Judicial, all of this, even the suspicious materials, which may have a reference to asbestos, are to be replaced. That's all for now. I'll come back to my second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u18	Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister, for dealing with the details of the matter. Of course this is the pathogen of the Greek state and I see it once again. In a document numbered 1831/2018, Minister of the Building Commission, the subject has been recorded and your Ministry knows it. How do you not know, since your ministry knows about it? That's a matter. Of course, I think it is absolutely reliable what you say that the information has not come to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u20	It's a service document.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u21	But I have the protocol number and I will present it to you. It is in 1831/2018 a document of the club and the committee of the building. Secondly, the certification by the 'Democritus'. Unfortunately, Minister, this is not the case at present. Years ago, the Judiciary of Judges was invited by the services of the "Democritus" according to the information they gave me. The officials did not know that this material was asbestos. So when a private person dealing with asbestos came to the courthouse and told them that what they are pressing and inhabiting every day is asbestos, the mechanism was activated and the expertise became.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u22	Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u23	This expertise must be sought with the Buildings Committee that has all the material in its hands and, of course, the Ministry must be aware of. Because I hold that you intend to do this, that is to say, to replace the asbestos. For God's sake, we are in 2019 and it is not possible to discuss this situation, Minister, and to do nothing. And let me tell you one more thing. I consider this to be extremely serious and you know that I did not choose it to opposition to the Ministry of Justice, but to cooperate and solve the problem together. So I did a little market research to see what this project costs at last. You went to Larissa the other day, and all the clubs told you that their request is the energy upgrade of the Larissa Grand Court, which is also an appeal, as you know. You promised it would be the energy upgrade of the building and you committed yourself to it. However, I find that the energy upgrade does not involve the replacement of floors mainly of asbestos. So it's a separate matter, so you have to tell us what you intend to do specifically with it. Leave the integrity, leave it electronic, leave it all behind. That's right, and that's what we want. Energy upgrade, all that you have said is approved and the replacement of asbestos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I found out after this mini-investigation - let me say this - that the cost, Minister, is not inconsistent. It is a cost that is between EUR 20-25 the square to replace the asbestos floor. You know the material is so dangerous, it needs a special procedure to remove it, like to separate the area. In addition, the workshops are special, they go to a special dump and so on. So let's do it. I think that with a lot of sensitivity we should, if anything, in a place where so many things are done for the state, for the state, for the citizens, at least feel and feel the people who are there from morning to night safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u24	However, Mrs. Liikali, the asbestos is still going abroad. We cannot within Greece. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u25	I shall continue with what you have said, Madam President, by saying this. Do you know how much funding has been authorised and credited for the Larissa Court in 2018 and 2019? Do you want me to tell you very quickly? Perhaps the amount you refer to is very small. And with this I can prove that perhaps a request that had to be prioritised was not prioritised to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u26	Say 'yes' today we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u27	Take care, then, of what we gave in to 2019. We gave 12,633 euros for the replacement of pseudo ceilings - I am always talking about the Larisa Court -, 21,500 euros for the supply and installation of air-conditioning network materials for air-conditioning, 16,963 euros for the restoration of the insulation of the floor and coatings. Let's go to 2018: EUR 32,612 for the procurement and installation of a radiological control system, EUR 9,416 for the restoration of dangerous aspects, EUR 19,684 for the supply and placement of water and insulating materials and EUR 10,228 for the repair of external masonry. You realise that even the cost for which you have spoken to me is very small in relation to all the money that we have given so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u28	So tell us a 'yes' today, Minister, to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u29	However, I would like you to know two more issues first. Through the final structure of the ESRB, the energy upgrade of the Larissa Judicial, which is in a pilot energy upgrade programme, and which will be funded through this process, has been proposed. At the moment, the studies that have been drafted - started by "Themida", basically ended up with the "Building Infrastructures" - have been transmitted for completion to the Directorate for Regional Unit of Larissa. So I can assure you that this whole process has been launched in the best possible way. And, of course, I repeat once again our great sensitivity to all these issues that are essentially about public health. And since all of this is not recorded in the way it should be, Mrs Liikanouli - and I tell you, on the grounds of knowledge - I have the answers to different structures of the services of the Ministry of Justice, and I tell you that after your question, I am instructing the Ministry's technical service to do anything to determine whether there are any structural elements containing asbestos in the building in order to be directly replaced. And, of course, at any time, my mandate is at your disposal to assure all those who are concerned that very soon, once we speak, any such issue has been resolved, it will have been restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Liikanou, I would like to tell you that, because this issue has been raised in other regions too, this issue with asbestos is very difficult and a special procedure is needed. We continue with the third with No 236/20-11-2019 top-level question of the First Cycle of the Member of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Agricultural social security contributions', which will be discussed together with the eighth question under number 264/26-11-2019, the second question of the Hercules of the Movement of Change, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Why increase the social security contributions of the majority of the free professionals and farmers?'. Both topical questions refer to the same subject. They will then be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, pursuant to Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, during your absence from the Chamber, a question was raised by Mr Kegeroglou and myself about the fact that of the three questions that have been tabled concerning your Ministry, the question under protocol number 236 was selected and the other two were excluded because Mr Metarakis, the Minister responsible himself, is on a mission. From the FEK, which mentions the responsibilities you have conferred on Mr Mitsarakis, there is no concession in relation to the items mentioned in the questions, and in particular on the issue of the securitisation of the CRL, for which you have taken a clear position and a public position and also on the question of workers in public programmes for the protection of the forest ecosystems of the country. In this sense, therefore, and given the end of the programme specifically for forest protection, there is a major issue. Mr Metarakis was also committed to giving the House an extension at least until the second phase of the programme was cleared. With the bad data on weather, there is a major issue and we are also asking for that to be discussed, because you are responsible for the fact that we have also presented and submitted to the Minutes. For farmers' insurance contributions, Minister, there has been tension and it has taken a great deal of time, given that the Council of State has made two decisions, it has published two very specific decisions on the Katrugalo law, which the current government as opposition had committed itself to abolishing. It seems that it does not abolish any Katorugalou law, it seems that it is doing some other procedures and that has created a total ambiguity in the world and especially in the farmers' world. So our question is: How will the Government implement the decisions of the Council of State and what is the plan for the insurance cover of farmers, together with their insurance information? This is the major question: How will farmers be insured now, in conjunction with the insurance information that farmers have today, with the situations in question? And, of course, whether or not the publications are valid. When the question was tabled, he said: 'The doubling of insurance contributions'. You've taken a place. Of course, this is all in the sense of publicity, and the government has the "defect" of placing much emphasis on publicity rather than on applied tactics. I would like to ask you on these points, Minister, and of course I would also like you to take a position on the question of Mr Mitaraki's competence, because it is also a major one for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the distortions caused by SYRIZA's Law No.4387 on insurance contributions for professionals, entrepreneurs, farmers, all those who are under an obligation to be insured with ECA. The Ministry's proposal, as has been made public - and we want a clear report today on what the Ministry's proposal is - is completely dissociating insurance contributions from income. That was a request. The direct connection caused distortions. At the same time, however, the contributions for the lower scales seem to increase very much, resulting in a large majority of both farmers and professionals having increased obligations in the coming period in relation to the ECA. It is clear that this can also be done in a system which is proportionate to the economic potential, but which can also be a barrier. We'll see then. What we ask you to do is to tell us about the Ministry's proposal, to answer us why you think the lower contributions paid today by farmers and professionals need to be increased, to tell us why you are reducing the amount of pension pay insurance and not giving the possibility, since you are talking about a free choice, to have the system that you are proposing, and above all to tell us whether a proportionate study has been carried out, whether this has been considered and on the basis of the study, or on the basis of some calculations made to the Ministry by your competent services or partners, and that is what you are going through. We want a clear placement so that we can testify to dentistry and our own thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u34	The Minister has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank colleagues for their useful and useful questions at a time when the major issue of insurance for our country has really opened up. And it is an issue that, ladies and gentlemen, would open anyway, because, as you know, as a opposition throughout the previous period, we had raised strong objections to insurance law n.4387/2016 under the name of the Katrugalos Law, as usual. That's what was going to happen anyway. But the time we now choose to begin this major structural change and reform, for the benefit of all Greek workers, insured and retired, is that we come and increase our effort and our thoughts, the decisions of the Council of State, which just about one to a half months ago were announced and judged as unconstitutional important, structural areas of the Katrugalo Law insurance. This therefore creates new data, to which we are obliged as Greek Government to respond as soon as possible. New data, which lead us to: First, to make a new insurance reform, including our political intentions and the development of our own political positions, which we have tabled in an election and which will now be done, with a new insurance policy that does not penalise productivity, creativity, with a new insurance policy, which will reduce insurance contributions throughout the whole economy, with a new insurance system that will reduce insurance contributions to the tax winge, the so-called 'insurance wedge' of workers, so as to increase employment, with a new insurance policy that will eliminate the complexity and bureaucracy of the pensioner, with a new insurance system that will create new restructurings by creating economies of scale, with a new insurance policy that will be in the service of the citizen, the worker, the pensioner and above all in a new insurance system, which will once again return to the public confidence of the Greeks, and will return to all the Greeks. We want all Greeks to retrust our insurance system, to trust it, to come, to pay contributions, because in the end they will receive a decent and adequate pension. On this basis, therefore, you know that we have already said that on the basis of alignment of the decisions of the Council of State, once the insurance law has been passed, pensions that have been cut, Mr and Mr, over EUR 1.300, as was the Katrugalos Act, have to be increased. Secondly, we will change the replacement coefficients so that the system will again be recompense, that it will become a system that we really deserve to have, a system that is attractive, that grows insurance consciousness. That is why we are looking through the National Analogue Authority, which is currently trying to see through studies the fiscal potential and the impact it will have, so that we can apply this reciprocity to the system. At the same time, all these changes, which I said before, come to be combined with the other change, which was also considered unconstitutional, the existing framework for a million four hundred and forty thousand more free professionals, self-employed and farmers, who have been dealing with the way they have so far paid contributions, namely by linking income to their insurance payments and debts. This, in addition to the political criticism we have had over the past period, is something that is judged and unconstitutional and we are now going to change it in a direction which is completely different. It is a direction that really is structural change, insurance reform, which liberates creative forces, does not punish labour, does not punish productivity, and in the end will all be satisfied and beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have responded indirectly to our question as to whether a proportionate study has been ahead of us and clearly said that some calculations are being made by the Analogue Authority. It takes an integrated study to be able to press on certain bases, otherwise you will have the same results as Mr. Katrugalos. What basic principles do we see? Although I asked you to tell us the government's proposals, you preferred to leave this question unanswered and to discuss it on the basis of the papers. The basic principles that need to apply, based on the study that will come for the financial part, are obviously the first principle, that there should be a decoupling from the direct link, namely the conversion of insurance into taxation. That's what we agree. In the introduction of six or eight categories, depending on which categories you should tell us if this is a fully free choice - so that means that you cannot put any obstacles to choice - or have a proportionate link to years and zones of economic potential, to economic capacity in general. Clearly, there should be no increase of EUR 1 in the lowest categories, both for professionals and farmers. It is inconceivable from 157 euros to grow to 175 this year by SYRIZA and you to go to 210. It was 157, it was SYRIZA 175 and you 210, according to the papers. Why? Do you want to increase contributions to the vast majority of professionals and entrepreneurs? Is that your target? So, second basic principle: no increase in the lower categories Third basic principle: new entrants should either be able to make contributions five years of adaptation later or with a lower premium. This is a matter of consultation and discussion. And most importantly, it has to do with the main theme of Mr Mulkiotis's question, the farmers. From where and until when as a opposition we criticised all together for the large insurance contributions paid by farmers and professionals, do you now come and say that you are going to make a gradual increase? Why? Where does that come from? What study comes from? And when pensions are now issued with the Katrugalos Act, which are distorted 100% and own contributions or higher, they give a lower pension! Well, get things cleared up. I sum up by saying that we want a study, that there should be categorisation without an increase in the lower contributions, that there should be no change in the logic for farmers - we want to strengthen production, we should not be bleeding out incomes - and, of course, for young free professionals and young entrepreneurs who want to create and young farmers there should be a certain prediction. A note: If you go to the question of free choice, as you say it, then you should not say that you are putting a stop to paying if it is a free choice. Today, you are able to pay up to six and a half thousand workers and free professionals, pensionable earnings of 2,500, and you say that in the next period you will put a barrier, but you cannot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u38	Complete, Mr Kegeroglou, for Mr Mulkiotis to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u39	So you should rethink this if you go to the completely free choice or in relation to the economic potential without being directly linked to income.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have not answered the exclusion of the two questions concerning the CRL and social work, although you have competence. I do not know why you want to avoid it if it is some hot potato or what else it is, but there is one thing that remains unresolved, and I particularly insist, after the last disasters that have occurred, in the case of public works programmes, in the case of the anti-nuclear protection of forest ecosystems. Until the new programme comes out, there is a period which Mr Mitterrand has committed himself to being granted an extension and there is no other answer. It is a question that is mistaken, hovering, and destruction exists. With regard to the basic question for farmers: Minister, has it been studied and you are aware of the real situation? What insurance information does farmers have in percentages of insured persons? What percentage is there for farmers, given their incomes and the economic conditions that exist today? Has this been studied in order for you to include farmers in the charge that you have made public that you include them? Because the amount referred to is a large amount. Let us bear in mind that you also have a proposal that the tax scale should go to 9%. To go to 9%, however, another condition is introduced, there are electronic payments and electronic payments are not simple. Do you know so many farmers who make electronic payments? Is the situation of farmers at all known? So is there a real perception of the situation of farmers in our country? Does the government know it, or does it only make plans on paper? Unfortunately, it seems that only drawings of paper are made. When the reality and an unfavourable situation in the whole of the country's farmers suffer today, you come and increase contributions. And I ask again, and I ask you to give information today, that the situation of farmers in relation to the insurance cover today is this, so there is a different plan, because you have a condition. There is no precondition for this, and if we take into account that the government has also deafened agricultural oil, which is in direct connection with and connected with the situation of these people. There is a question from September and the government refuses to answer it. The contributions, therefore, both credit cards and plastic money and anything else you want to do, cannot advocate this logic that the Ministry has chosen to increase farmers' contributions. It is an increase, Minister, and this procedure is in the wrong direction. Nor can there be general and vague classes and someone with an income huge in the logic of supposedly receiving a large pension go and be insured in the lowest insurance class. There are no dilemmas at all, and that is why there will be an inequality and a contradiction of the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I am addressing the honourable Members who have tabled the questions and I would like to say to them that before you, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that as far as my political formation, my political function and as Minister in 2012-2014, but now too, I am very careful and aligned, as far as I can, on the formal issues concerning laws and, above all, on laws such as insurance. I say this because, when the insurance law comes, it is understood that it will come with all the necessary proportionate studies that are planned, both extended and additional, and with studies of insurance and pension competence for the first time. It will be completely documented legislation to escape once and for all from a morbid past, in which uncertainty and doubts have brought pensioners constantly before legal offices by lawsuiting courts for retrospective actions. This will end once and for all. The law will be fully audited, armored, constitutional, embraced by all Greeks. Public social security will again become very strong in the consciousness of all Greeks. All Greeks will embrace her, they will receive adequate and decent pensions. That's as an introduction. And of course all of this will be done with the necessary proportionate studies and at the same time pension adequacy studies. Secondly, the insurance reform that we bring, as far as the part of the free professionals, self-employed, farmers, a million four hundred thousands of people, who have been punished - I repeat and agree with you - creativity and productivity for this large part of Greek society brings radical changes and a new framework of insurance, based on three basic values: First, simplicity. The system will be simpler than it has ever been before, the simplest insurance system. We need it to strike red tape, complexity and adolescence, which is currently in existence in the ECA and you are describing how difficult it is not just for farmers, for all freelance professionals. Secondly, after simplicity, freedom to choose insurance contributions, absolute freedom. Everyone will be able to choose freely at the beginning of each year what they can and will pay as a debt, as an obligation on the insurance fund of course and the matching and pension that they will receive in the future that we will present to them. And, thirdly, flexibility. The flexibility has to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the possibility that each of the insured persons I described before the beginning of each year will be free to choose, to keep this category free for all the years he wants, to go up and to go down the category he chooses at the beginning of each year. Now, this system, this great insurance reform, which comes, goes on with a few more of what you said, Mr Kegeroglu, very positive changes. First, the ratio of the insurance categories and liabilities from the minimum wage is released. From now on, as long as the minimum wage rises, there will be no increase in insurance categories of free choice, a major structural change that will be positive. Secondly, it is released and has nothing to do with the known classes, there are no more classes. The classes, I remind you, were related to the years of insurance, to the years when someone had an activity and operated within it. Classes are repealed. There is no link between free insurance and the years when someone is serving or operating a profession, whether he is a doctor, a lawyer, an engineer, or a shop or a farmer. Thirdly, it is liberated and has nothing to do with income - what you want - and the insurance company is no longer tax. The insurance cannot be linked and converted into tax, which has caused huge problems in complexity, in the procedures operated by the ECA, in the loss of resources, in a logic that has for the first time brought enormous tax evasion and tax evasion. Furthermore, what you have insisted on and I agree with you too - he is very concerned about young people and farmers. Farmers, ladies and gentlemen, are in the periphery and at the heart of our government's policy, our government. There is no harm and 1 cent increase in their insurance contributions from the current situation. Not even a cent! On the contrary, farmers as a whole will benefit from the total reduction in taxation which is in this tax bill which is currently passing through the committee procedure and then comes to plenary. At the same time, there is special treatment for young people: for the first five years - take note, Mr Kegeroglu, because you have referred to yourself, that the House should also be informed about this - it will not only relate to a category of insurance contribution that is low, particularly those who have until now been to the existing N.4387, that is to say, the scientists, but it extends to all the young, free professionals and self-employed. So a young child who wants to start his productive activity will also benefit the first five years. More importantly, while under existing law, youth insurance contributions had to be reimbursed, they will now not be repaid, they will not be offset in the future, they will be in favour of young people. And I close with the criticism that the insurance charge is supposedly increasing as a burden. That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the employees will have a five-point reduction in insurance contributions. We've said it. Already in the 2020 budget, which we will be discussing, we are starting with a 0.90 reduction in non-wage costs. And as far as free professionals are concerned, you know that the tax reform that we are reducing up to EUR 10,000 has come to free professionals and self-employed the tax rate from 24% to 9%, i.e. a profit of EUR 1,300. So the combination of insurance and taxation, with the synergies that are created - because the government is not government - the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, the government is government of all the ministries - at the end of which any increase in insurance contributions will be overhauled by a positive balance at the end of the day from the reduction of taxes that this government brings to this tax reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u44	Electronic payments must be made, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u45	So, ladies and gentlemen, I think you have given me the opportunity today to respond to an issue that concerns this great accusation that has been punished all the time, the professionals, the farmers, the self-employed, and the answer comes, you will see it in practice, because now we are on the design, we are on the way to completion. In January, it is our ambition to come the insurance bill, the insurance reform of the country, which we want - I repeat - to embrace all the Greek people. I would ask all the governments of Parliament to support it and to vote for it. It does not only incorporate positive logics of our own policy, embraces the past. I'll explain it when the time comes. We are going to unite all the political wings of this House, do something new, innovative, because this social security reform is not under the guidelines of the troika or institutions. This insurance reform is carried out by the Ministry of Labour. Nor by 'committees of Wise Men'. From the employees alone of the Ministry of Labour, the excellent employees of the Ministry of Labour, who also have knowledge and experience. And all the employees of the Ministry of Labour together, combined with the government and the guidelines we have given, will bring in an insurance bill that will embrace - I believe - the whole House and all the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u46	We continue with the thirteenth question under number 221/18-11-2019 on the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'What is the planning for the extradition of the tens of thousands of applications for retirement pending?' Mr Kegeroglu's question will be answered by Minister Brutsi. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u47	An insurance, a pension scheme is of greater importance. We need to talk about the overall financing of the system, the tripartite funding, what is going on with the obligation of the third partner of the system, which is the state. There is a law to strengthen the system by means of profits, revenues, by exploiting hydrocarbons. We have tabled a clear proposal for the Overseas, the change in its role and the utilization of the social security system. Because, as you have said, a high level of insurance contributions are also provided for low pensions. You can't do that. There should be fair insurance contributions and decent pensions. Fair, not to drown young people, not to drown the current insured and decent pensions for pensioners to live. What did you tell us? You told us that for young people we were doing a favor for two, three, four years and we were not immediately increasing them. You will not have a lower premium that is currently in force. You just don't raise them right away. For all others, they are also increasing from EUR 157, who paid until recently or EUR 175 this year, to pay EUR 210. That's your answer. The same applies to farmers in proportion. But, Minister, this is not without a proportionate study. These are drawings on paper. And, of course, you doubted yourself, because while you said that you are disconnecting it from taxation, you are disconnecting it from income, and then you told us that "at the end of the day you will have paid from one pocket of insurance contributions both from the other tax and if the Minister of Finance reduces taxes, then it will be able to pay the contributions". So, what if taxes increase next year, will you reduce insurance contributions? What are you talking about? We're building an insurance system with a five-year horizon and you're telling me about the tax system, which can change every two years, every three, every four? This link is unacceptable, Minister, and you should stop connecting it to justify increasing contributions in respect of tax reductions. We have a huge problem with the outstanding pensions. He was inherited by SYRIZA. The fact is that they were "farmers" compared to people who worked a life to get their pensions. It's a sacred right of the insured person, the retired person, when it's time to retire. They didn't do anything. They have opened up the digitalisation system and it is late to implement this great reform, which we started at the Ministry and it can actually give fruit. But this will be after a few years. And after months, however, as you say - because you tell us that pensions will come out in June with this system - I would ask you to tell us what is ultimately the case with pensions, how much they are still pending, because there are four different answers. Others said EFKA in December 2017, but in December 2018, but in June 2018 in June 2018, and more you said to the "air". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, the answer you have given to the Members of the New Democracy - because you have not accepted the answer to us, although we have first tabled the question and the application for documents, and I have kept a good note of the attitude towards the Group of the change Movement Parliament, where after the particular point I have made again you have not accepted your reply - is that the outstanding main pensions in June are a hundred and eighty-nine thousand, according to the document. It's not a million or five hundred thousand. The subsidiary is eighty-seven thousand, the widows two thousand, etc. They're specific. So, on the basis of this problem we have, we want you to tell us when, at last, pensions will be issued. Will you strengthen and how can pensions be issued? There's manpower. It also needs good management of human resources and incentives. I think you can do both.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu, even though you've exceeded time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u49	I shall return and repeat, in order to avoid misinterpretations, what has been said just before, which does not correspond to the truth. And, indeed, they just got twisted a minute ago. While I was saying other things, Mr. Kegeroglu said other things. And I'm explaining: Firstly, this insurance reform seeks to regenerate insurance, bring new workers, retired people, all of whom, close to public social security again. Secondly, it is part of it. It has nothing to do with the past. Thirdly, it shows special care for farmers. Farmers are at the heart of our government's policy. Farmers are not even affected by one cent. On the contrary, because of the tax bill currently in Parliament, the insurance and tax synergies have a benefit in the pocket of all farmers. This is a great conquest, a great freedom. In addition, farmers will be able, through the free categories of insurance contributions, to choose freely, flexiblely, what pension they want to receive, which they did not have until the outset. Youths have distorted what I said. For the first time, there is this concern for young people. Five years freely, horizontally for all young people - not only for scientists, as was the case until now - but also for the self-employed, for the whole of our youth who wants to open up a job. There will therefore be special attention, with very low insurance. Furthermore, these contributions will not be offset in the future, i.e. they will be returned to the insurance system, as has been done so far. It's something new, in favor of our country's young people, to find a chance to get into the production process. So we really have, in front of us, an insurance reform, which for the first time has a positive figure, which, as we have described it, seems to be embraced by everyone because it releases the creative forces of the Greeks. And it's wrong what you're trying to do. I repeat. The Government is not a government of the Ministry of Labour or a government of the Ministry of Finance. The government is planning a whole. It was therefore in our synergies and our decision to reduce the free trade tax by EUR 10,000, from 24% to 9%, which is EUR 1,300, to cover those categories that will increase insurance contributions. I don't know if there's anyone who can find money on the streets, but we do what we do, we do it on the way, we do it on the way, responsible, together, housewife. And I repeat that, when the insurance bill comes, it will come with complete adequacy of insurance and proportional studies and pensions. We are now going to the part that has been mentioned about the loose ends. Ladies and gentlemen, you are very well aware that the SYRIZA Government has been diligently avoiding, insulting, parliamentary procedures, coming here, doing what I have been doing today, answering current questions. And not only was he denying, denying written questions. The government of SYRIZA did not respond, the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, to the crucial issues about what the loose ends are. Along with KINAL then, and with the other parties, as opposition, we kept asking questions. Insulting, unacceptable, there were never any answers. Never! And finally, it turns out that they did this because they made fun of the Greek people and hid "under the carpet" reality. And the answer came to the House. One million fifty-six thousand outstanding cases: cases, main pensions, subsidiary, one-off, recalculations. All of this was hidden 'under the carpet'. We were delivered, inherited, and we have now come to deal with this big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u50	What do you say, Mr. Brutsi? Who are you addressing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u51	And the problem - I will repeat the numbers, as regards the section of the main, subsidiary and one-off, which was given until 31 August 2019 - is there. It is an eighty-nine thousand eighty-eighty-one, eighty-seven thousand five hundred ninety-one subsidiary, thirty-sixty-four single. And on these pensions are eighty thousand widow's pensions, of which sixty-six thousand were already paid. But I am talking about the end of August, which has been the answer and the record. Two hundred twenty-two recalculations. Of the two million of what we have earned, we have delivered the information to the retired. These recalculations have not been made. We're trying now. It is a chaotic situation, an incredible bureaucracy that SYRIZA hid, the previous political leadership, under the carpet and did not come to tell the House. We have therefore put the machines in place, along with the staff of the ECA and the Ministry of Labour, making every effort to deal with this problem. Because it is fair to say that it cannot, it is not fair, it is insulting for the partisan of working life to ask for his pension and not to take it. So let's solve this in the following ways: The first way has to do with the existing loose ends. We have organised the awards departments and have commissioned them with eighty-six more employees. We increased by 17% the award time. Secondly, we frozen the mobility of the FBI. No one will ever leave the FBI again through mobility. Thirdly, we shielded the FBI so that it could not leave a secondment employee, something that the previous political leadership had done to the coroner. He let the FBI employees go while there were unfinished pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u52	You're telling us a number of distractions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u53	Fourthly, we have changed the administrative framework through which we transfer pension awards to regional departments as well. We brought this into the last law and resulted in pensions being awarded faster by two months. The question is: is it solved by this problem? The answer is, no. I said it and in 2012-2014 as Minister, I repeat it now. The problem of outstanding pensions is not solved. It can only be solved digitally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u54	Minister, finish it up. There's a bill after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why the second route which we are currently pursuing - we have already launched legislative initiatives - is on 1 June 2020 that there will be a great reform of the ECA and that we have the first digital pensions for new pensions. This is how we respond, ladies and gentlemen, to the problem of outstanding pensions, showing respect for workers, respect for the partisans of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the SYRIZA ball, at every level, is not an alibi for you. Any failed policies cannot be an excuse for you for what you do. We cannot go from a state of N.4387, with wrong choices, to another situation of wrong choices. That's why we need credibility and solvency. This will only be guaranteed on the basis of studies and choices, which must be clean and the result of a dialogue that you must start immediately. I have heard nothing about the necessary social dialogue. Because you said it was a distortion, I'll tell you first of all the credibility. What credibility can you invoke, when your State Secretary here a month ago committed himself to the fire protection programme and to the programme for workers in public work in this area until at least the second stage of opening up that contracts will be extended, and you are not doing so? What credibility you may invoke, when you say "we disconnect insurance contributions from income" and at the end you tell me that you are finally linking it, because if taxes are reduced, it does not matter that we are increasing the contributions. That's what you're doing. You are well aware - and I do not distort any position - that the proposal for young insured persons was tabled by us. You accepted it and we welcomed it. You do not, however, make any lower accusations than today. Just keep today's contributions for young people and increase for everyone else. That's what you're doing. However, in principle, lower contributions for five years to young people, whether professional or farmers, we agree. The second requirement and proposal are that there should be no increase in the contribution. And we don't see that. So we don't twist, we find out. I come to the question of the great, which is about the non-preparation of pensions. I will present to you, for the Minutes, the report by the European Commission which says that we have a new increase in overdue pensions and in August. I mean, you've been going on the past time. This means that you must speed up, in any way, the issue of pensions. And for us to have full information and all the truth, it is not only the digitisation of non-digitalised insurance contributions, which we started at the Ministry and well, but also the fact that the Greek state from one point to the next - and especially the IKA, and you know it very well - started to have an electronic system. If the electronic system had not been implemented at the time of the IKA administrations, which put these innovations in the IKA, - I remember the name of the Nektario, the Professor, who was commander and strengthened this electronic process, but also before him - we would have no chance today to say that, after one or two years, pensions will be issued electronically. To be clear! But this cannot be left to his fate. You must therefore make every effort to issue a large number of outstanding pensions so that these people can enjoy their work, with decent pensions, which we must ensure. I would ask you to initiate a substantial dialogue - if you wish - to hear the other voices and the figures. On the margins of a timely question, clearly we cannot discuss it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u59	I am pleased, because trying to analyse what I hear from Mr Kegeroglu, I see an absolute agreement with what I was saying before. But he says it differently. I am pleased to feel that there is an absolute association with the great insurance reform, which comes and changes the landscape in favour of all workers, the insured, the self-employed. It is a structural change, where - I repeat - the feeling is that it is embraced by the entire Greek people. And it is a proposal that, when it comes with the bill in Parliament, I would ask that all the wings of this House hug it. And I'll explain why. Because it is a proposal of synthetics from all previous years, which will unite all good that has been inherited since 2010 to this day. I am now going to the question of outstanding pensions. I have to make a retrospective report. In 2014, we had prepared the "ITLAS" system. In May 2014 it was the first time - and the announcement on behalf of the Ministry of Labour - that we said that Greeks no longer need to keep a book with him because, through the "ATLAS" system, there is insurance capacity for all Greeks electronically informed. This effort was partly completed in December 2014 when we presented it. We had backwards twenty-one years. Unfortunately, SYRIZA's advent to the government blocked and stopped the "ITLAS" system. If this had not happened, what I am saying now, that the pensions will be digital, we could have done so since 1 January 2017. So, Mr Kegeroglu, if you are looking for someone responsible because today we do not have a digital system that our government - together then - started with 'ATLAS', on your right is the side of SYRIZA, ask why the 'ATLAS' system stopped, ideally, during the period that took over the governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Brutsi, who are you addressing? Mars residents?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u61	But we are going on today. We are currently moving on to a new way of awarding pensions, in a modern way called the digital "ATLAS" system, which will operate from 1 June 2020 for new pensions. Now, with regard to the issue you have raised again on insurance reform, I would like to say to you, Mr Kegeroglu, that insurance reform from income is disconnected. It will not be the insurance tax again, which was the tough and the problem. However, do not confuse this with the economic benefit, that on the one hand all free traders will benefit EUR 1,300 a year. And those who'suffer' with an increase in insurance contributions of up to EUR 10 000 - because over EUR 10,000 are all benefiting - will be overestimated by the synergy of the tax on insurance. So in the end they'll all be won. This is the great change of insurance, which I believe the entire Greek people will embrace and at the same time increase the collection. It will once again come back to a powerful public social security system, which everyone will embrace, trust and pay their contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the eleventh question under number 232/19-11-2019 of the second-round question by MP B2 West Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Removing the camp EB 301 and restoring the camp 301 St. Silvers in the public." The Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is a very important issue, both for the Saints and for Illion. We have a camp that is in the heart, in the square, in the center of St. Anargyra and separates the neighborhoods of St. Anargyra. We are talking about a huge area of almost two hundred and fifty acres, a "hole" in the heart of urban tissue. It's a camp used as a repair unit for weapons and firearms tanks. There is no reason for this particular use to be in the centre of towns, as well as the other camps, which must serve, are outside. In any case, the use of the camp has already been greatly reduced. It's one quarter of its original activity. However, what is needed is to close the camp, but also to be attributed to the inhabitants. Both Saints Anargyroes who have a small percentage of green in relation to their needs - would account for an additional 60% of what they have, only 40% of their needs are covered - and Illion, where the situation is even worse, needs this space. And we're very concerned about it. They fear both the residents and the municipality of the scripts released for its inclusion in the list of real estate realignment of the Armed Forces, with the aim of privatising it. It is something that must be avoided. We want your commitment that it will not be done and we want your commitment that the camp will be attributed to the citizens, the inhabitants of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for the reasonable question you are asking, but I think I see a structural contradiction in the questions you raise, the two in particular. On the one hand, you are asking us to take measures to ensure that this site, the Koskina camp, is attributed to the municipality for the purpose of exploiting it, and on the other hand, you are asking me to make a commitment that the camp will remain outside the list of the service. But this is the case: Or it will be placed on the recovery list with a possible scenario that may also be granted to the municipality, if the municipality produces a proposal structured, structured, documented and approved by the process I will develop below, or it will be left off the list and nothing will be done. So, to take steps to make use of it, but undertake to stay off the list, it's a contradiction. The right wording of the question is to qualify in some way for the property of the Ministry of National Defence to be used and from there on for every proposal to be considered why not privatization - I do not want to prejudge anything - or the concession to the municipality, which both constitute different versions of the use of the property. However, none of this is happening now, for the simple reason that the Koskina camp, in which various workshops and services of the '301 Factory of Basil' are being enslaved, is mainly a garage - a train station indeed within the urban fabric of the Municipality of Saints Anargyra - Kamerou Attica - is active. The camp's active. Therefore, it covers the needs of the Armed Forces and especially the Drought Army, and therefore cannot be made available to the Armed Forces Realisation Agency, the so-called HSDPD, which is the service in which the assets of the Armed Forces are available, either through the National Defence Fund or through the share funds of the military, aviation and navy branches, for use. Therefore, as a Ministry of National Defence at the moment, there is no question of consulting with any body through the Hellenic Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence to exploit this camp. This camp is active. Only inactive camps can enter the list you're talking about. Not to grant or privatize necessarily but to exploit. However, I would ask you to make sure that you come in contact with the Municipality of Agia Anargyros, in order for the municipality to table a proposal. We're open to proposals, we're open to discussions. In future this camp can be judged by the Armed Forces, in the context of a new structure of forces, reorganization of camps, etc. - a future scenario, but not unlikely - that it must become inactive. Therefore, it may arise as a matter of further exploitation. But - and I would recommend this to every body of local government - it must come with a concrete and documented proposal. The property of the Armed Forces is not a set of items to be granted so, unconditionally, but is a property suitable for use by the Armed Forces, in fact. At the moment, the Armed Forces have essential needs, especially in order to upgrade their equipment because of the juncture, from which we cannot escape anything we do. Therefore, a big and strategic objective of the government is also the question of the exploitation of the property of the Armed Forces. In any case, the camp is active right now. There is therefore no reason to go on a list to be used and any proposals are welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you describe to me a proposal that the municipality can bring for redemption. We are talking here about municipalities that, as you know, are in a very difficult financial situation in Greece now and there is no such possibility. Obviously, there's a proposal. In fact, as far as I know, the mayor is right now with another colleague of yours and they are discussing it. However, there is a concrete proposal at the moment for the management of the camp, in fact for the green areas and the activities that a municipality can do in such a place. But you know what we are asking you to do is not different from what Mr Mitsotakis, the current Prime Minister, asked for when he was a Member of Parliament. What I ask you in my question is almost the same as the question he had submitted. Then he asked for the camp to be given to the public, precisely because there is a lack of green and the units of the Army removed. So, if you will, please speak to the Prime Minister, because my question is the same as the question he had submitted before - I think that the same questions we are sharing, I hope that he has not changed his mind in the meantime - and come on, indeed, with a proposal for a concession to the public for a very simple reason: 1/4 has now reduced the functionality of the camp, it has shrinked this piece, the repairer, the camp, and so at least 3/4 has not been used in practice. So, let's see how these can be attributed to the municipalities. It's not just the Municipality of Saints Anargyra. The camp borders and divides, unfortunately, the Municipality of Saints Anargyro from Ilioon. It is very important that the issue of a degraded, unfortunately, area of Athens that suffers from HYTAV Violence, from thousands of problems of transported pollution, from the Trinity Field and from trespasses. We have a church that is currently claiming the entire Poikilo Mount and in neighboring municipalities of two hundred thirty blocks. There are too many problems. These people, then, need a way out. They are entitled to an equal quality of life with any other resident in Athens and the Attica stadium. So, this concession is very critical. After the Prime Minister asked for it before, I think you can answer his request at the time, giving it to the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I will have this conversation with the Prime Minister, although I am sure that if someone were to tell him that in the process of exploiting the assets of the Ministry of National Defence it is essential that this element should remain active, he would understand it immediately and therefore understand that active camps, although they are assets of the Armed Forces, are not in the process that I am going to describe to you now. This process is to include each asset in the HPSD portfolio, the Property Response Service of the Armed Forces. Therefore, since there is no provision to remove services from the camp because it is active, there is no question of going into the list of assets managed by the U.S.S.H.A.A., as the Office responsible for Exploiting the Real estate of the Armed Forces. The mission of this service, to understand the procedure, is to exploit property not used for military purposes. This is used, it is active for the benefit of the Armed Forces and their officers. The Ministry of Defence shall select real estate for use by the National Defence Fund, the so-called Hellenic Army Equity Fund, the National Fleet Fund, the Navy Equity Fund, the Air Defence Fund and the Equity Fund, and shall launch electronic auctions for their rental. These funds are managed by the general meeting of their shareholders, the members of the Armed Forces. In order to release any real estate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to open a competitive procedure for the use of this property, there is, of course, a decision of the shareholder funds bodies. It's not a simple process, the Minister says it with the congressman, the mayor comes, he makes a suggestion, and go, let's get rid of it. It's not a cow for milking the property of the Armed Forces in general. That is what I want us to understand that there are specific procedures. The management of the EIB's equity funds is accounted for by the members of the general assembly, i.e. the members of the Armed Forces. The assets of the share funds are available if they are deemed to be inactive and can therefore enter the list of real estate for use. The exploitation may include a privatisation on the part of an investment proposal, an investment project, and it would be appropriate to come up with such investment projects - they will confer benefits on the Armed Forces - or they could well include a concession to a local government body for housing renewal. But as long as the asset is active, it's out of the candidacy, if you like, to be used by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is how this process works, and I think it is a process of reasonable, transparent and a process that must - because this is the final analysis - to benefit the Armed Forces as well. Therefore, since Camp Koskina is active at the moment, there is, it works for some military purposes for which I cannot say anything more specific, because this is a matter of military intelligence, it acts as a train station, a military vehicle maintenance plant, a repair or anything else, at this time it is not available for use. In order to be made available for use, it must be made inactive so that the competent fund to which it belongs is able to address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and say "to, we have this property, what we can do, look at it either by means of a tender for renting, selling, exploiting or programming with a municipality for its use". That's the process. Whatever we do, whatever intentions we have - I do not question good intentions - we cannot escape it, because this is the process of exploiting the assets of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister. This must be the use of all the state's assets. We continue with our first question with No 241/25-11-2019 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Pella, George Karasmanis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To come to Parliament the documents Mr Arahovitis says he has submitted to the European Commission for the restructuring of peach production". The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. This timely question I had tabled as a written question two months ago and because I did not receive an answer, I was forced to present it as timely, precisely because these problems have literally kneeled our thousands of peach producers and have therefore been unresolved for almost five years. In order to become more specific, on June 19, seventeen days before the elections, the previous Minister for Rural Development at a meeting with the MPs in the peach-growing regions announced - and I read out self-evidently - that we are "directly moving forward and preparing to table a proposal for a restructuring programme for table peach and nectarines". A week after the new Minister, Mr Voridis, his predecessor, along with other colleagues, asked him a question and asked to know what was happening with this Community restructuring programme. It is well known that there must be consultation in order to be restructured. Consultation with producers, consultation with operators, consultation with the European Commission. It takes a documented multiannual proposal to get the dossier to the European Commission. We have not seen such things. In other words, there is no such document proving and certifying the allegations of the previous Minister. It turns out to me that everything was on my wing and that they were on election. Mr Vorides' predecessor, in fact, made reference to the Russian embargo and to the dramatic consequences for peach-growers. Evidently then he discovered that himself as Minister and his predecessor, as well as the entire SYRIZA government for four and a half years have left these people completely out of place, without having a word in the Councils of Ministers of Europe. Moreover, in his question, he was concerned about the related aid to table peach, despite the explicit commitments of his government that the review of the 2017 CAP would claim and achieve a solution to many problems. However, the related aid has never requested it, despite the fact that the climate at the time was favourable and that the Community Regulation was helpful. For all these issues that have so far been 'burning' our peach producers - in particular the dramatic losses of their income - it is now uncertain and imperative to ensure that these people are given area support for the Russian embargo for which they are not responsible, but they are paying the fullest extent for its consequences. The European Union is solely and literally responsible for this. Therefore, the clergy, Minister, in order to get our producers out of today's bad economic situation, has fallen to us in our own government. We must support these people who, over the last five years, have seen their prices crumble at humiliating levels, without having taken a single euro for the enormous damage from the Russian embargo, to the extent that many of them have declared themselves determined to rip their trees out. They are now waiting for us to take them out of the poor economic situation and the desperation in which they have come. So the solution, Minister, is in your hands. I hope and I am sure you will do your best for these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Karasmani. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. In his question, my fellow Member asks me to submit documents showing that a file or a request for a restructuring programme for peaches in the European Union has been submitted, as well as for the adoption of an exceptional national programme for free distribution of table peaches. There are no such documents. My service tells me that there is no such file and I read you exactly what they are carrying me. 'For restructuring there is no discussion or document,' so I have nothing to tell you. On the subject of free distribution of table peaches there has been an e-mail from the AEA, our delegation, with the Spanish delegation in Europe. We have exchanged two electronic messages, one of our delegation and one of them which the Spanish delegation replied to. These are two messages which refer to the possibility of a humidification programme for free distribution to beneficiaries of fruit processors. That is to say, what is actually being examined with this exchange of correspondence is whether there can be a distribution of fruits in vulnerable groups, and because juicemaking extends their lives, because of the fragility of fruits, whether there can be a juicement programme. Finally, it is through this programme that there should be some kind of payment to the fruit producers who will make them available for the juicemaking process. So there is an exchange of a message and an answer. Our delegation is investigating whether this was the case by the Spanish delegation, and is answering the Spanish delegation that under certain conditions it can be permitted to pay in kind to processors who will make this process of juicement for such a programme. That's all there are, Mr. Colleague. There's nothing else. Now, on the other issues which, in fact, you have raised and which concern peaches in greater detail and how to deal with, I shall speak in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, but I put you in three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, according to what the Minister has said, there is absolutely nothing about the restructuring programme. The question of the free distribution of peaches for juice was a proposal which, however, was never implemented, because the summer passed without this programme being implemented. Apparently it happened at the last minute. Although the European Commission decided in June 2019 to abolish food aid, unfortunately, there was no voice of opposition on the part of the government. Therefore, Minister, we have before us the great problem of falling prices from the Russian embargo. We need to do something to ensure the income of these producers. After all, we are committed by the Prime Minister's mouth that a strong development prerequisites for a strong primary sector. Without living countryside there cannot be strong urban centres, there cannot be social peace, social cohesion. I would like to point out once again, Minister, that our peaches producers and, more generally, the peaches growers are now in the last limits of their strength and tolerance with their prices of declining over time with their time and income shrinking, going from evil to worse, because of the loss of the large Russian market for which they have no responsibility. The European Commission is fully and literally responsible for this. I repeat, Minister, the solution lies in your hands. I am sure you will do the best because, in fact, the days of the peach producers are black, nightmareous, accompanied by an orgy of deceit. I am therefore waiting for a solution for income support from the Russian embargo. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u76	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u77	Just to finish the earlier issue of the documents - which I have not mentioned before - I should like to give you dates. The exchange of these two messages I mentioned - they are two messages and there is nothing else - was made on 3-7-2019. The issue of peach production is obviously best known to you than to all of us and you know the problems that exist. You know that problems really have to do with two issues. One is the potential for absorption by industry and the processing of peaches. There is an additional problem that now arises, which is the imposition of duties. This creates further issues. I'm relatively optimistic on this. I think it will be dealt with somehow. In the end, I think that will have a transient character and explain why. Because the decision by the arbitration body of the World Trade Organisation or the opposite decision is expected, i.e. the 'European Union against the United States' decision, which will now allow duties to be imposed on products from the United States on the part of the European Union. That is what I have the impression that it will create a clearing field and I think that within it it it will be absorbed and there will be some kind of balance. This, of course, is about the 2020 period. There are various things that, on the other hand, we must deal with. Why? Because the truth is that there are additional plantations and therefore there is the possibility that we may have an increase in the production of peaches in the next period, and there is an issue from there and beyond which you have pointed out that it has been created with the Russian embargo. It has been a long time, but it has been a long time, five years and, unfortunately, nothing has been done so that we can deal with this situation. You are aware that this situation is being dealt with by measures which are essentially intended to support producers' incomes so far, that is, the great De minimis. I consider these to be emblematic measures. The fixed and permanent allocation of such aid is not a solution to create sustainable crops. There may be necessary aid measures at a difficult time, but it is not to deal with the problem. We must therefore go to a problem. We need to see what the potential is and what the prospect of this embargo is and how much it will continue and what its effectiveness is. To reopen the Russian market I think it could be an answer to that. If that is not the case and there is not this market, I would say that first and foremost we must see what is happening and then we do not claim other markets for the products in question at this time, and that is the real basis, the trade solution, or else we are going to go to solutions such as restructuring, which, as you quite rightly said, requires a broad debate. What do you restructure, at what point, what trees, what crops, what compensation, for what length of time? So this is a big debate. It is not something that can be done by a decision of the Minister 'I now decide to restructure'. It's not like that. We should therefore perhaps get into this debate. And, of course, the other measures on the table continue to be of a purely supportive nature and non-permanent nature. The solution to the juice, for example, cannot be a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u78	For the embargo, do you intend to give a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u79	For the embargo, it has been decided that aid cannot be granted because the Union is blocking it, because we are going to go to an illegal aid procedure, so we cannot. It's happened five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u80	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u81	Two minutes. The concept of unpredictable has the character of the moment, 'then'. It cannot be unpredictable for a five-year period, because the market must then function and absorb. It's not five years unpredictable. So we should know that this is something that cannot be supported. At the time that may have been imposed this is another debate. But I would be happy to open up all the possibilities that exist. If there are legal possibilities to use them to the full. I mean, I am completely open, but we must also create reasoned expectations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 29 November 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 243/25-11-2019 of Mr. Athens' Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Training arrangements'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 245/25-11-2019 was raised by the Deputy Prime Minister of Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need to place a permanent damage repair plant of PPC on the island of Ottoon". 3. The 235/19-11-2019 topical question by MP Laris of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The bureaucratic clashes, an obstacle to the brown production of Kissavos". 4. The 259/26-11-2019 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisi of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Volos Hospital and Magnesia Health Centers". 5. The 252/26-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Illegal surveillance of security protesters". B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 244/25-11-2019 by MP Pella of the New Democracy Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: ‘Completion of a National Road Axis EO2 project’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 248/25-11-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The risk of postponing the expansion of the metro in western Thessaloniki". 3. The 263/26-11-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on "Direct actions for the operation of intensive care units". 4. The 253/26-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Illegal and irrational persecutions in philosophers who feed strays." 5. The 254/26-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Installation of a mechanism for measuring gaseous pollutants in Haidari'. 6. The 225/18-11-2019 topical question by Congressman Chania of New Democracy Mr. Manos Voloudakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Evaluation of SMPs and ANFAs to finance public investment". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 228/18-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Action plans to tackle noise'. 8. The 215/12-11-2019 topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Ligoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The image of the obstetrical - gynecological clinic of the General Hospital of Larissa". 9. The 233/19-11-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The landfill area of hazardous waste Kokkolaka in an active seismic breach in Skouria'. 10. The 229/18-11-2019 topical question by MP Pieria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elizabeth (Bettet) Scooter to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Measures to protect and ensure the life of Olympus travellers". 11. The Question No 216/14-11-2019 by MP Kilkis of Change Movement Mr Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Leaving of twin tobacco warehouses to the Ministry of Culture". 12. The Question No 217/15-11-2019 by the Member of the Ilias MEP of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An analysis of the government's proposals for the Patras - Tower" project. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1317/16-10-2019 question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Illegal delays in the implementation of the Patras-Pyrgos road axis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 123/14-10-2019 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgiou Kamin to the Minister of Health, on "Physical health of children in the camps". 3. The question, under number 1152/8-10-2019, of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Structure of the Management Bodies of the Protected Areas of the NATURA 2000 network’. 4. The 1199/11-10-2019 question by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panayios (Giota) Poulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The recruitment of doctors and nurses - paramedical staff for the immediate needs of the connected General Hospitals of Livadeia - Thebes". 5. The 1125-47/10-2019 question and application for the submission of documents by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Application of financial incentives to promote screening at source and recycling". The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. Also, the first time question under number 242/25-11-2019 is not discussed with the Minister of State for Industry and Social Affairs, Mr.Assina Skondras, on the subject: "Serious malfunction due to the second-rounding of the services of the National Farmers of Thessaly". We continue with the fifth under the number 250/25-11-2019 topical question by Mr Socrates Vardakis, MP for the Radical Left, Mr Socrates Vardakis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Aid for oil producers, in compensation for their loss of production, due to the laundry and goose-sweet". The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u83	Minister, I would like your attention. And don't tell me that SYRIZA brought climate change and the torch, because I'm withdrawing the question. Minister, total disappointment has taken over the oil producers, who, for one more year, this year, like the previous one, have been faced with massive damage to oil production at a pan-Central level. The adverse weather conditions, the result of climate change that hit Crete throughout the previous period, the drought, the drought, the heavy rainfall, the windstorms - to remind you that many areas of Crete were declared during the previous period in a state of emergency - of course also assisted by the tomato and in some areas by the glossoporium, a new 'fruit' that led us to, indeed, constituted the farmers, the olive producers in Crete. The results for the olive crop and the deterioration of olive oil are disastrous. Do not forget that in many areas of Crete it is a monoculture, so it is the only income these people have. The effects, in fact, are tragic not only on the local market but on the international market, as we are talking about lowering the reputation of Cretan olive oil and not just on the international market. Destructively, too, are the results in the producers' pocket, which have been subjected to considerable cultivation costs, remaining in debt and without income after the massiveness and intensity of phenomena and probably unable to cultivate next year, since there is no income to repay the crop debts of the previous year, as well as current obligations. Minister, I do not know whether what oil producers have experienced, especially in the last two years, has happened in the past 15 years. I want you to inform us: What action do you intend to take to protect and compensate oil producers directly in accordance with the State aid Regulation and the Community guidelines on State aid for agriculture and whether the damages recorded per type of product at regional level exceed 30% of the average yield for the three-year period, can they be included in a State aid programme? Otherwise, do you intend to compensate the olive growers under Regulation No 316/2019, i.e. through de minimis aid? Let me remind you, Minister, that something similar the previous government had done with farmers in great catastrophes, in compensation for farmers with this programme, as I said, de minimis, the so-called De minimis, which brought our farmers out of huge dead ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have a lot of questions. I think you will manage to be a little shorter. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u85	I have a methodological procedure now, because many questions raise the same issue, because there is, indeed, an increased concern about what is happening with the disasters, the destruction and the damage suffered by olive oil production in Crete. I will try to say it as quickly as possible, I just hope that my colleagues will be here. So, if I refer to my previous answer, it's just for saving time. I say this because it is three - four questions, which are about identical, and refer to the damage, to the problem that exists in Crete. The first issue to deal with - let us begin with the basics - is to identify in a scientific way the causes of the damage. There I would ask everyone to be particularly careful in their wording, what they say and what they claim. I am not saying this in order to restrict speech to anyone, freedom of speech absolute, but to know that the placements have consequences. Why am I saying that? To make it clear that if the damage is due to the torch, as you know, it is not compensated either by the ELGA or by the PSA. Do we agree? Is that clean? Clean. And then it will open up a debate on whether or not the homicide has become good and whether the homicide programme has acted or has not acted. So I, because I don't want to be in a hurry on these things, want to wait for scientific findings. Because I hear that there is one position that, in the first place, there is the torso, but that the torso has been properly committed. In other words, it has become right, but there have been special weather conditions which have created a very rapid growth of the torch that could no longer be tackled with tactics. I'm telling you, it's something I heard. I'm not telling you it's been scientifically documented. Okay, but first issue is scientific evidence. So before anyone comes up with the causes, I would suggest that we leave scientists and experts, those who do this work, tell us which, in fact, are the causes. The obvious cause we all understand is, yes, the torch. So if you go to the tree and you see it, you'll see it, won't you? But because this has been done, because there's this bloating of the towel, it remains to be documented. Is it that something has not been done well in the homicide, or is it that something extraordinary has happened at times that could not be predicted and led to this outbreak? So this is something that is open to investigation and discussion. So we need to work on this. The second question is that if anyone accepts this second claim, any evidence of this second claim and is documented, namely, that there is a relationship between the climate and the forest elevation, he must see...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u86	Clearly, that's what we need to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Polakis, I'm not a scientist, I'm a minister. Scientists will tell me what we should consider there. That's what I'm saying. I don't prejudge anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u88	We're scientists, and we understand! We are also oil producers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u89	I'm sorry, to finish, we still have eight questions. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u90	I will stop and return to my dentistry because I tell you that it is six questions on the same subject. I'll put it in division.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u91	That's right. But let's get this over with. We have a roll-call vote. We have a bill. Mr. Vardakis, for three minutes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u92	Mr Minister, in order not to read them and "eat" the year, these are over thirty articles on the destruction of production this year and on the grounds that some scientists say, because if we wait for scientists to diagnose the damage, the problem will only be shown by autopsy. The oil producers autopsy! I insist that there is an urgent need for initiatives in a more general context to support olive oil production not only in Crete, but throughout the country as a whole. We have learned, Minister, to speak on technical terms - I do not like that - with numbers, to do analyses and we are usually on the same denominator, without giving a solution or not reflecting the real problem. Let me say two words to get together. I heard a few days ago a colleague from another party who asked you the same question. He did not say about the real problem, but that the previous government is responsible for the inappropriate program of the corpse, hiding - rather deliberately, I do not know why - that the homicide was committed until about a month ago. It wasn't a government, SYRIZA. And, of course, I would like to inform you that for the first year in 2018 and 2019 Crete took EUR 1 million more for the tacosy. So I do not think there is the serious problem we are facing today in the homicide. Repeat, 1 million in 2018 and 2019 more than the previous years for the homicide. Without being a geopolitic but oil producer, I believe that the problem, Mr Minister, is due by 30% to the tomato or globe, the new fruit that has emerged from us, as I have told you, 80% to climate change, tolerance and tolerant rainfall for the olive. I said it in my prototype. All this happened last year. Money is there. You know it, we know it, too. Here's the former Minister to confirm it. To compensate oil producers and continue, Minister, to produce and offer the country's economy. To conclude, I would like to say to you - and keep this, Minister - that the oil producers not only of Crete but of the whole country are the most unfair farmers, especially those who have monocultures. We find ways, Minister, and we compensate winegrowers, beet, peaches and cotton. We have examples in Crete, we are not wronged. The oil producers at God's mercy. Are the olive growers not paying? They pay the same as the others. I'll tell you something very important. See what is the last time, over the last fifteen - twenty years that have been compensated for oil producers. You won't find it. So, you see that so many questions are put, you see the agony of the world. I think, therefore, that you should immediately find a solution for compensation. Let us not all forget that it is a national product. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think, Minister, that it is not an obligation, but a duty for all of us. But it is more your duty that you are currently leading the Ministry of Rural Development. You'll have to find a solution immediately. As far as I know, in the next few days you'll be in Heraklion. I read that the Minister is tabling a file in Brussels next time. That, Minister, is what we have experienced in the past. They don't give a solution. I told you what the solution is, in my view, what we did last year with farmers. We didn't do scientific research. We have seen that the farmers have been affected by disasters, weather conditions, and we have compensated them. Do something similar to give a solution to the olive producers in Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Vardakis, thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u94	Mr Colleague, let's agree on a few issues. You have the former Minister for Rural Development who can tell you if you have any gaps. The issues are never solved at the level of the so-called 'political decision'. In short, I don't have a pen and I'm sharing money. Because whoever did this, when they did it, ended up the money coming back. So these are no longer there. Once upon a time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u95	That's a long time ago. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u96	But the recoverys are still in front of us as a thorn of this old time. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Why am I telling you this? Because any solution, even De minimis, needs to be documented too. All solutions need to be documented. There's no solution without documentation. I may not know the sciences that Mr Paulakis says so well, but I know very well - as long as you can't imagine - because of my work the legal compensation. So everyone has their cognitive field here. So I know what this documentation means. And that's why you see me taking you methodically. I want you guys near me in the methodics. It doesn't mean too late. But it means carefully, documented and organized. Because the other is "Let's go". "Let's go" don't go. We're going badly after "Let's go"! In order to establish these compensation, it is important to determine the cause of injury and its relationship with weather phenomena, if any. I do not enter a sterile controversy of what had happened, for example, in the Messinia and Laconia in 2018 when we had the corresponding one. Because there's nothing happened. But I don't get into this because I don't care about it. I don't care about the past. I am interested in how to build up the problem today. So I said about the causes. Let's go to second. Depending on the causes, we're guided. Because the causes may lead us to the MAGPs under certain conditions, if there is a justification for climate consistency. When this is extensive - because you told me about Europe - and beyond a certain limit and linked to a unique phenomenon that has no precedent and can be attributed to climate change - that is now additional documentation, it is not a simple weather phenomenon, that is, we want something more than the weather phenomenon - then it leads to Europe, and it leads to a dossier and possible compensation from there. That's the third thing I told you about. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We go to the fourth which is what you say to me, that is, the de minimis compensation. De minimis compensation is an ancillary compensation mechanism. In fact, it means an ancillary mechanism to strengthen income, when the others do not exist. Because it is of an ancillary nature and because it is of minor importance, it does not lead to full compensation. That is why it is of the character of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u97	To such an extent of destruction?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u98	For such an extent of destruction, but also in general, Mr Polakis. I'm saying it in general. After we have opened the debate on De minimis, which we will perhaps then ask because there are other questions, I will simply tell you that the already existing producers' requirements for De minimis today that we are talking about exceed EUR 100 million. Other Not these. I have the good or bad thing not to come from agricultural production. This is good, that I have no special sympathy for olives, peaches or vineyards or somewhere else. I have an overall approach of justice in these matters. I'm not saying no one did it. Maybe someone did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u99	We must also respect the justice of time. Mr. Voridis, no talk. Look at the watch and don't have a dialogue. We must respect the justice of time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u100	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after having been toured in the House House Hall thirty-four students and students and five attendants from the 2nd Malion Elementary School of Heraklion Crete and twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the Municipal School of the Hellenic-French School of Jeanne d'Arc. Welcome both schools to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the seventh with number 262/26-11-2019 topical question of the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The destruction of olive crops, the deterioration in the quality of olive oil during this year's olive year and the tragic economic situation of the small and medium-sized producers in Crete". Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, these major disasters in this year's olive oil production have, in fact, caused enormous economic damage to the oil producers and, above all, to the small and medium-sized ones and have degraded the olive oil. This damage touches 100m euros with a first estimate. You know very well that the area of Crete is especially olive-growing that covers 75% of the island's cultivation. You said before, and we should not rush, to wait for scientific findings in relation to the causes. I would tell you to think - you must have been concerned, you may not have been concerned - about the fact that the execution of the homicide programme was problematic once again. The question, then, is this: Have there been delays in the supply of medicines? Were the bait sprays deficient with ineffective pesticides and significant deficiencies in the application of the method deficient? Especially the spraying of August was completely unsuccessful with damaged drugs. The spray was not sprayed in September, for example, in many areas of Crete. So who's the responsibility? The climate change in general? You won't throw the ball in the crate. You will not generally talk about climate change. We have found the caramel of climate change, when your governments are not okay with their obligations to small and medium-sized farmers. I mean, what? Work based on science and technology data. And today there are these data to be addressed and the extreme weather phenomena. So, science, what have we got? Secondly, is there insufficient and degrading funding by the state to deal with the forest? The funding that exists is only for three sprays. How many need to be done? Eight to ten at least. Crete has registered thirty - two million olive trees. Do you know how much funding for 2019 was? It was EUR 8 million when 2008 was EUR 12 million. It was globally EUR 35 million in 2010, and today it is at EUR 21 million, reduced by 40%. So, what climate change are you talking about? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, this timely reduction in state funding naturally has the effect of reducing both sector managers and craftsmen, the wages of workers and contractors and the costs of supervising work. In 2019, twenty-one directors in Heraklion Regional Units were foreseen for two-two municipal units, when at least thirty-five Heads are required. In 2008, more than tens of thousands of people worked for the homicide, while in 2019, only nine hundred forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u103	Go to the questions, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u104	It is dramatic to sub-financing, deficits and responsibilities of governments over time and of the New Democracy and SYRIZA and before the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u105	What's the question, Mr. Covenant? But please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u106	So we ask you, Minister: What measures will you take, firstly, to immediately record and compensate the total damage from the ELGA? Because the producer has paid ELGA and pays him to the level of production for all farmers. Secondly, we ask you to get rid of the affected oil producers of the various carpets, HISPIA, municipal fees. Thirdly, to ensure a uniform pan-Hellenic, well-organised and well-organised implementation of the homicide programme. To recruit staff with full insurance rights and, above all, to have brave funding from the state budget and to abolish the 2% contribution for small and medium-sized farmers, because you have never fulfilled the obligation - even in the returning logic you are - to the producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u107	Good. We're closed, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u109	That is the view of the JRC. I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u110	It is simply a very important and serious issue that concerns not only Crete but many regions of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u111	Good, I just said I didn't hear a question. I heard a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u112	He said two questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u113	Well, the first was only a question. Then he said what had to be done. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, as far as I understand it, you have probably come up with the causes of the damage, which you have attributed to the incomplete implementation of the tactical programme. I suppose that's your position. I would prefer to investigate this matter further. I'd rather look into it and not be so unequivocal, not for any other reason - I don't want to help anyone - but I want to see, really, what has happened, the real causes. Neither to be happy nor to facilitate anything, but to investigate it. You have come to the conclusion that this is the issue of the incomplete implementation of the homicide programme. Because something the previous colleague said about another question - I think it was Mr Kegeroglu, which I answered last week - which raised this issue, I will tell you something to be absolutely consistent. You know what I said, because I don't want to make it cheap - say it like that - opposition. Contrasts, I'm ideological. Lacks and programmatic contradictions exist, possibly disagreements and mistakes I can point out, but I never want to blame anyone. In 2018, there was a problem with the implementation of the coronary programme. That's true. In 2019, there was at least no design that the Ministry has done. The procedures have been speeded up, the drugs have been delivered, the tenders have been made and in the intended way. Therefore, if there is a problem with the implementation of the programme, it is a burden on its implementation and it is something that will be discussed at regional level. I will tell you for the reason that this was not the case. In other words, if there was a whole problem in the murder programs, in their execution, on the Ministry's side, it would appear in other areas. And now I'm talking about the SYRIZA period, Mr. Arahovitis, I support. What am I supposed to do? What it is, it is. I've told them, everything that's not, it's not, but what it is, it's. So I repeat that for the reason that if there were a total problem, it would appear in other regions too, that is to say if the problem were central, and if it had not worked at the central level, it would not have been a problem for Crete alone. The Peloponnese, Laconia, Messinia, Istanbul and Halkidiki would have a problem. So, the issue isn't there. The issue of dealing with the homicide will go to execution and concerns the region. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I repeat that I have no objection to opening up - and we will be opening up - a very extensive debate on the issue of the crime programme and especially on how this period was implemented in Crete. However, because something you said about three sprays in Lasithi has become six, in Rethymnon there have been six, in Chania there have been five, while as far as Heraklion is concerned, we still have no evidence but the region will give us how many sprays it has done. I would therefore like to say that what you say 'funding for three' is not true. These sprays have been made. Whether there's any other issues, let's see them. But that is precisely what is going to be the subject of the scientific research that is going to be done, so that we can see whether the problem was in tacosy - I am going to ask again the question - or at times. You said something about climate change. I don't generalize. The climate change has been determined by what it is. He wants something unusual, unique, exquisite that never happened before. That is to say, there are some additional conditions for climate change. It's not any weather phenomenon. So we need to see whether there were any elements at this particular moment that justify - in the way I said before - the basis of such a claim or reject it, unless you know more than I do in it, so tell us. I would have expected to see what you said - what you referred to - scientific knowledge of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u115	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u116	Minister, I have the impression that you're probably trying to hide behind your finger, because the problem that has arisen has been a long time ago. I do not believe that you have been informed that the anger of the farmers has literally been perpetrated. If you go to the cafes in the villages of Crete, you will be told exactly what are the reasons for this problem. As to whether there is a problem with the implementation of the programme and whether it is the region, etc., we, Minister, see it as a single one. It is the sole responsibility of the state itself, which has made sure that the regions are given responsibility - others that have accepted responsibility - and that they receive funding from the central self-resources, i.e. from the operating funds of the municipalities and regions. This is a debate that we should not open now. But from there on, we as a JRC - and you have to know it as the Minister for Rural Development - have put forward very many concrete proposals to tackle the problem of tacosy and, above all, we say that we must increase the State's funds for tacosty, without even the producers paying for 2% in their turmoil. So when it is 8 million financing for Crete, these 8 million are only enough for three sprays. If we want to talk about five, six and seven, then the sprays are incomplete. Is it or isn't it? They're incomplete. It means that the contractor will do a good deal of work on the acres, will not do a substantial job, which means that if we want to talk about a complete programme, he must be eight to ten sprays, so increased funding. However, you reject these proposals from the JRC, namely, that the fraud should be carried out in a comprehensive, scientifically sound manner, without contractors, centrally responsible for the State and Government, with the immediate recruitment of all the necessary scientific, technical staff, with full insurance rights, for workers to be protected. You know what happened now, so? For a few million more you refused to make available - probably started by the previous government with the FEK of 6 February 2019, but you did not, of course, make sure that you gave this aid, the extra aid to solve the problem - you sacrificed the tactics programme and finally the damage reached 100 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your real interest, Minister, is not the small producers - to make it clear, as a party, and politically and ideologically - who are, of course, desolate with the Common Agricultural Policy 2017-2021, which you are embracing and implementing, but the big farmers, businessmen and great traders, who are giving them warm money. You do not care how much is going to be done with the vast majority of the small and medium-sized producers, which, among other things, in all the other problems, taxation, pensions, carpeting, come to be added here as well. You just want to get them out of here, get them out of the field, and get big farms back together. So that is the essence and stop throwing the ball to each other, government and region. You've both agreed. Neither the regions have ever claimed state funding nor have they ever claimed to have resources that can respond to this task undertaken by the State itself. In short, therefore, farmers must not expect either the hypocrisy of the government or their tricks and terror. Fight here and now and will give you the answer very briefly, the farmers of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u117	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u118	Now, I don't know if mobilisations are the right way to have a scientific debate on the coronary, but in any case, if you like that, that. Anything you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u119	We're not having a scientific debate here, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u120	Why am I saying that? Because you are, for example, setting certain conditions as self-evident, which are in no way self-evident. You consider, for example, that increasing spraying necessarily brings better results. The answer is - scientifically, as the scientists say - that it is not always that way, for example, excessive spraying can lead to resistance and to ineffective spraying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u121	I put in preconditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u122	So don't make that political on the ground. It's not a political appeal to whether the sprays are three, six, eight or ten. The sprays must be so effective. That's what science tells us. We can't argue about that. You have a claim that the matter is the amounts of the homicide or the issue is whether it is executed centrally or is not executed centrally. I understand that in your own ideological perception and forming the state there are no self-government, there are no regional bodies, there is nothing. There's a central government mechanism that's doing everything. Obviously, because, once the state did this at a central level, and since the state did so - without the state being communist - the state that did it centrally did not go well, it decided to decentralise it if it were going better. Why? Because he considers that with the proximity to local things it can work better. Maybe she does, maybe she doesn't. These are tested, judged and form part of the debate. For example, who the contractors are, whether contractors do their job well, whether the contractors' work is well supervised, all these are a field of discussion. What cannot be the field of discussion, is to give us an account and say that for some millions we do not want to do the job. It's not like that. I'll say again that I'm going to open the homicide conversation. I just want to say what the compensation is, because that is what farmers should know. I said something. I'm saying I'm waiting to see the scientific findings, to see what happens with the weather phenomena, and if they played a part in this damage. You tell me 'No, it's the homicide that is to blame'. Yes, sir. If it is the fault of the murder alone and we end up with it, as I suppose you want to take it here today, we need to know what that means. No ELGA, right? No P.S.S.A., right? Not full compensation. Clear words. Anyone who adopts this logic goes in a linear way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u123	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u124	There's nothing written, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u125	AMARAL (LDR). — (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by I tell you, Mr. Colleague, that you wait for the scientific conclusion, and you answer me not to throw the ball in the stands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u126	A scientific conclusion from where?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u127	From the relevant ELGA committees, which are going to see and study what is what has been done. And the honourable Member says to me, 'Flying the ball on the bench'. Don't you want me to throw her away? Can I keep her on the field? So it's the tacosy. So, not ELGA, not PSEA, not climate change in Europe, so let's go talk to the minors. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u128	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Synhronakis, these aren't written, they're out of a microphone. Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u130	No blackmail, that's the logical consequence of your claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u131	We move on to the ninth with number 227/18-11-2019 topical question by Mr. Stavros Arachovitis on the subject: 'Prices in olive oil and edible olive oil'. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I will need your tolerance because various issues have been raised and we need to make a more general reference. We have listened earlier to a colleague who asked you, Minister, to submit documents on what happened with the restructuring programme in the peaches. My colleague himself acknowledged that the meeting was held with the peach producers and with all the organisations on 17 July, that is, a few days before the elections. Let me remind you that we had a request from producers just a few days earlier. The meeting was held. Three solutions were discussed. One was for withdrawal through the programmes already being implemented, the second was through a new programme and the third was restructuring. All three before the meeting had already been discussed with the services to start such actions. As you quite rightly filed the documents - the correspondence of the AAC with the corresponding Spanish information that we had received - since 17 June, the correspondence was made on 3 July, that is, within two weeks we had already moved forward. However, this initiative that was taken then needs to be followed up. The peach producers must know that there must be a continuity here. Let us go to the second point which I would like to raise, the insurance issue raised by Mr Bruts on farmers. To remind all those who are listening to us, Minister, that the collection of farmers by the classes was only 49%. Less than one in two farmers could pay ELGA to classes, such as the old system, for linking insurance contributions to age. I mean, a farmer as much as he was growing up would be rich. That was the irrationality. The Katrugalu law that linked insurance contributions to income brought about a balance. He took the employees' model and extended it to the self-employed. I think that is something that Mr Brutsi can tell us about. However, by going to the question to say that we are in a changing world, in a world that is under very heavy pressure and very big changes. One pressure is the threatened Brexit. The second pressure is the tariffs from America to some European olive oil, which is not the Greek one, but a very large pressure is being created at the total price of olive oil and is a factor in the price drop. That is why we said it is a European issue and it is not only a Greek issue. What's that about? Spain, which is the main supplier of the American market, good or bad - badly for our country, but which provides a way out to European olive oil - already has 33% lower than the five-year average and Greece - and because of this parameter - has 13.5% lower price than the five-year average. We always talk about extra virgin olive oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u133	Please shorten 'cause we're in double time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u134	We shall continue in dentistry, Mr President, of course. Two questions: What is the overall strategy that your Ministry is planning to follow in the olive oil sector? The second question is, what immediate measures - apart from the withdrawal programme, which seems to be not about Greek olive oil and Greece - you intend or have in mind to bring in order to support both the income of Greek olive oil producers and the olive oil sector, in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u135	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Just allow me to say, because the honourable Member made reference to matters outside the narrow limits of the question: however, some people rushed last week, on Saturday, and adopted some articles. I think that there has been a relevant publication, which says that the insurance contribution for farmers is going, Mr President, to about 220, that is to say, double. These publications were adopted and a great deal of concern was created on this issue in the rural world. Then there was the good news and the landing of what the government does. And the good news is that there will be no increase in this contribution, but not material, but not more than 119 and that is why we are talking about 3 euros. Obviously, this is related to the government's tax policy, which creates a very significant increase in farmers' incomes. There is no point in pointing out, stressing and stressing that this is a targeted insurance policy for farmers. So, as I recognize what I recognize you, you must also recognize to the government what you must recognise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u137	That he's keeping the Kharugalu contributions? Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u138	And you must not rush to adopt rumours and sperms and create concern in the rural world, because this concern is going to your detriment. As I must also say, I was surprised yesterday, Mr Arachovitis, with Mr Famellos's position on an issue which is absolutely favourable - and you know how important it is - for our farmers, that is, their capacity for photovoltaics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u139	Tell us about the land of high productivity, since you're opening it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u140	Listen a little. That's what I'm saying. Their capacity to collect up to 75% above those generated for themselves for the use of their own electricity. And he condemned it with this amazing argument, Mr. Famelos, yesterday, and listen to it, Mr. Kegeroglu: "we are plundering...", he says, "...the electricity market", because we are doing this. Here, then, to recognise the positive and go to the rest. I'm coming to the olive oil. In olive oil there is a great success of the Greek Government. The success is that it exempted Greek olive oil from the duties imposed by the United States. We all understand and we should recognise that as a success.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u141	We recognize that, but we don't have olive oil, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u142	We'll see what we have and what we don't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u143	Please, let's move on. We have a bill then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u144	May I stop, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u145	Oh, no. One more minute and then you will continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u146	Great success, then. Why is it a success? Because it creates a competitive advantage. Competitive advantage to whom, in the United States market? Mostly in relation to Spanish olive oil. But here we are all in touch. It is an advantage if this is what our oil producers and our processors use it as an advantage. The government shapes them a huge field to move. It forms them a large market, in which we have better olive oil, at spectacularly better prices. Good! So - we are now going to the level of trade policies - we are going to increase the standard? Because that is the prerequisite for it to succeed. So that depends on our printers and our producers. The use of this possibility depends on the understanding between them. The government cannot go to take the oil to sell it to the United States. They've got their own business to do. If that happens, then I assure you that we will have a spectacular increase in the price of olive oil. If this does not happen, I can assure you that we will have a reduction in the price of olive oil. Why are we going to have a reduction in the price of olive oil? We will have a price reduction, because the remaining Spanish olive oil will try to win other markets and one of the ways it will do this is by reducing the price.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u147	Please, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u148	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u149	Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the insurance policy is concerned, and after the loot that has been lifted, the minister responsible clearly said about the self-employed, to whom they are also farmers. There was no misunderstanding. In fact, let us make a misunderstanding. From "AUSTRIA", let's be a misunderstanding. From the Coupling MPs, where did they put a question? And they didn't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u151	They were taken from the ‘SGEI’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u152	Do they read "HAY"? We're getting news!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u153	Everyone reads "SEEING"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u154	We're moving on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u155	Then the Minister changed his attitude - and I say it a little sweet - and adopted the insurance contributions of Katorugalo. Welcome, good. Now, let's just say a couple of words about the homicide you said. Last October 22, the ritual period had begun. The budget was at 26 million, and the jobs, from geopolitics to workers, were a hundred more, increased. In other words, coming out of the memorial in practice, it seems that more money can be made available.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u156	And in time for the competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u157	And timely the competition, on 22-10-2018, for the 2019 datrical season. So the reasons why there are no results that farmers expect are not, are something that we need to explore in every region differently. In 2018, as you said, we had in other regions, we had in the Peloponnese, we had in Laconia that we usually have excellent and awards, in recent years, olive oil. We already had a problem in 2018. But it is practically what we are doing. I shall submit to the minutes an correspondence we had with the committee and the press release that emerged from my meeting with Mr Hogan on 16 April, where there together with the committee, not only with DG AGRI, but also with the Economic Committee, we have discussed some solutions. The elections went through and nothing happened. However, from the process that Ireland won at the same Council of Ministers - precisely because we raised the issues, and the Brexit that I told you at first, and that is no accident - 50 million support from the committee for its beef farming, because it has had the same problems that we are facing. So there's the field. He only wants it all the time. As far as customs duties and the strengthening of standard olive oil are concerned, the Greek standard olive oil is in theory gaining ground. In fact, however, Greece's penetration is only 2.5% on the American market. Double? Twice. Make it 5%? Yes, sir. What infrastructure, what promotion and how much time does it take? So that's not the solution now. It's a perspective. Five years? I might say a little bit. But it is not the solution now. Now other strategies are needed, there is a national strategy to avoid a bra - de - deliver between the government and the opposition for only reasons of visibility, but a national strategy needs to be drawn up and direct support measures taken. That is what we are asking, Minister. In the Minutes, Mr President, I put these three documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u159	Look, and olive oil is generally the case for our agricultural products, in a world where we now have large globalised and internationalised markets, and that is a phenomenon that - to make it clear - we all support it and welcome it. For example, we welcome the agreement we made with China on the ray, we welcome the agreement we made with China on Kosanis, we welcome the agreement between the European Union and China, which contains ten of our own products. To know that in the globalised world, we are not only protecting our feta in China and our well-being. The Chinese too have taken some of their own products, within the framework of this agreement, and opens up the European Union market for their own products. So this is the case with all free trade agreements because in fact what is open to the market and we are interested in a particular product, it is a corresponding opening for some other products from other countries. I am saying this because the price debate sometimes feels that we are making it - and we are creating a mistaken impression in the agricultural world - in the void, as if there are no pressures - of competition created in agricultural products through these free trade agreements, as if there were not that competition and price pressure objectively - there is this - and as if in fact we have the possibility of price formation. We can't. So our strategy is the issue. What strategy do we have for each product, namely, vertical strategies and horizontal ones which create conditions for the competitiveness of their products. What's the choice here for olive oil? Because, in my opinion, there is a clear strategy that we need to follow in olive oil and it is clear: increased standardisation and the penetration of standardised high quality Greek olive oil into ever-increasing markets. That's what will ensure the price. There's nothing else to ensure the price. So the commercial strategy, the penetration strategy, the exploitation of competitive advantages, are important. So we have to move forward and what we need to think about - because these are the discussions that are taking place and which concern us, and we are opening this debate with producers and processors - are, for example, why the Greek olive oil producers prefer today to sell in bulk to the Italian merchant. Why do they prefer that? The answer is obvious. Because they find a better price. They have no special sympathy to the Italian merchant. They find a better price and sell to the Italian dealer, so they do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u160	So the Greek printers go and tell them they don't give it because the Italian pays better?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u161	Of course, and speak with them. Because it's Italian's best honor. That's the point. It's Italian's best price, of course. And the question that is now here, to turn the conversation, is why does the Italian give a better honor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u162	The Greek printers are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u163	And why? Listen. That's what I'm saying, so they can hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u164	Do Greek printers throw the price of olive oil?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u165	Mr Arachovitis, there is no dialogue. You asked, they're answering, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u166	Listen, Mr Arachovitis, Greek printers are faced with a very real problem, the problem of penetration, the problem of large chains of foreign printers being placed in commercially stronger places, which have this privileged relationship with the commercial systems, with the systems leading to the retail consumption of olive oil. That's the point. So how do you win that? By shaping commercial strategies and commercial advantages, such as what our government has secured. Not in prayer, not in blessings, nor in general conversations. You win it when you give your own printers a strategic advantage. They've got one now. So that's what needs to be exploited. This is what changes the game, because otherwise we will come to this Chamber and discuss whether or not we should add something to a winter production process from the state budget, and call it De minimis, and we will also be pleased because we have given De minimis. I am not happy with that perspective. I want there to be income in the producers. There must be strong production, there must be penetration into the chains, there must be trafficking, and we must work on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u167	Good, thank you. We move to the tenth number 219/18-11-2019 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct support from the Ministry of Rural Development to the producers of Crete destroyed by storms, hails and tornadoes". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, after the greetings - which you said very well - 'I welcome, I welcome, I welcome' - the crucifixion comes, we see whether the resurrection of producers and of olive oil and of other crops will come. I would like you not to forget that three years now there is a gradual depreciation of the incomes of the Greek olive producers from various causes: there is the main cause of the murder. Yes, it is a reason that led there, and that is why you had to legislate in July, and you changed the system that operates centrally, so that it can take place in the time that has to be done, in accordance with the procedures to be followed, in order to deal with the problems. Therefore, do not overlook the reduction of income from this cause for all the previous three years. Point two: we have other causes, of course, due to both extreme weather and climate crisis and not change. In all millenniums we have climate change. Now we have a crisis. Changes are acute and this has been perceived by the European Union and I think it has the corresponding programmes and resources. I am referring, therefore, to the extreme weather phenomena, first of all, which have hit oil production - the hails have dropped down, which we say, the rest of the production that was left in Crete at least, and I believe in any other areas that have fallen - and at the same time in the cultivation of glasshouses and outdoors has caused irreparable damage. Also, in the infrastructures that have to do with the construction of the greenhouse and, above all, the one that is universal - all the covering surfaces, the nylon we say, everything has been pierced, all the greenhouses have been destroyed. I went to Kudura, Elafonisi, to southern Heraklion, Tympaki, unfortunately a great disaster occurred. We have a disaster and infrastructure in about a third of the total number of acres. The air's all over it. I'll give you the pictures by word the truth in order to get a picture. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, we are destroying the bourgeoisie. Persistent production was completely destroyed even where the nylon simply pierced. There are, therefore, great disasters and a loss of income for all producers and oil producers and for greenhouses and for outdoor crops. What do we suggest? First of all, we are asking you whether you have already planned something and how you are considering dealing with the issue that we have a reduction in income, a disaster for producers, oil producers or greenhouse gases, which are from various causes. So we have a problem that needs to be tackled uniformly, with different resources from each other. I conclude my first speech by asking you what you have planned, particularly where there are problems with regard to insurance. It is optional for greenhouse-growing insurance and we have an issue there and it is the damage that is typically not part of anything. In other words, the state for the misappropriation in previous years and this year in some areas, which the state receives and is responsible for the success of the project, does it not have the responsibility to compensate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u169	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u170	You have now asked your last question another dimension. I have said several things about the issue of oilseeds compensation, not to repeat them, because a part of your question was for that. I think you've been watching them, I don't have to repeat myself on this. In addition to that, I would just like to say that if we conclude that the matter is the torch, then it is clear that the compensation mechanism does not exist. Now you're talking about something else. You are referring to claims for damages, which are brought against the bodies which may have been misused. But that is a different matter. This is requirements and claims of each one once the institution's failure is determined.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u171	Now it's attributed to Mr. Arachovite...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u172	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u173	That does not mean that you will "do the duck".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u174	Where appropriate, this shall be specified. I stress it, because this is something different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u175	Now what are we doing here? What part do I play? Don't let me have a dialogue again. Go on, Minister. We said tolerance, but no...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u176	Well, that's something different. Now, with regard to the issues you have raised to me, let us make a few things clear. First of all, the ELGA can't compensate someone who's not insured with him. I hope that this is made clear and there is no debate. So if one is not compensated, he is not insured in ELGA on his own choice or elsewhere, because especially for greenhouses there are private insurance programmes, it means that he makes a choice not to be insured. So that's one thing. The second question is whether there are other compensation mechanisms for those who are not insured. There are other compensation mechanisms for those who are not insured and the compensation mechanisms are either when we have weather phenomena, as this is the case and when we have 30% catastrophe, which needs to be measured in total, you know that we are now entering the PSE process. Is there any other compensation mechanism specifically for the installations? That is now something to do with the Treasury, but we may also be in the sense of starting the process. In the case of natural disasters there could be a part of the damage, 30% of the damage to building facilities, machinery, raw materials, goods, public and private vehicles. This also exists for farms, and it is Article 36 with Law 2459/1997. There can therefore also be compensation with a mechanism for installations and farms, because traditional agricultural insurance is about production, which is why I am saying. So there is also this mechanism that will be exploited. Therefore, with this framework we will be moving, since the damage is actually recorded, and we will see what possibilities exist with all that I have told you of the cover in order to restore the damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u178	Minister, starting with the latter, it should be clarified that although there is not in many cases an OGA insurance for standing production, plant capital and installations, infrastructure, which is the subject of the PES, does not require insurance in ELGA. If this is ensured, we will have solved a major problem and it will be able to move forward. The second point concerns compensation which could be added by the European Union. I would like to say to you - and I think you will be aware - that the disasters caused in Crete and especially in western Crete in February 2019, following a request, intervention and a proposal from the European Parliament, Mrs Kaili, which are a small sum of the total damage, but concern only infrastructure, rural roads and other facilities. The European Parliament's question to the Commissioner responsible for compensation for producers was unfortunately a distraction for Greece, and I believe with the responsibility of the previous government, but not just. The Commissioner said: 'If you had made a provision in the Rural Development Programme, which now expires in 2020 and could be extended by 2022, there could be a wider compensation and support for producers'. So, before its responsibilities, the previous government - of course politically - comes, but here we want to see what we are going to do. It's not our question to tell them that you've had a bad review, you don't include them. Today our question is how the producers will be compensated. I specifically propose, on the basis of the legislation, a specific programme to compensate for all these damages which have also been caused to producers, as if they were part of the programme. The only possibility is that, by obtaining the European Union's approval of not being regarded as State aid of major importance, in order to enable us to then include it as a 'urban' obligation, as we used to call it, from one programme to another, to become part of the perspective. It is therefore necessary to do with the standards laid down by the European Union to compensate, pay with national resources with their permission and then account for the money. This is how it is done in public works. That's a huge possibility. At the same time, you should consider from De minimis whether we can from this account, from this regulation, available resources, specific amounts, which are more than 100 million, include a large part of the compensation that is needed there. To conclude, I should like to say once again that the issue of olive cultivation must first be seen by a national plan, and we must see the issue of compensation that the cause of the impairment of income is multifactorial. So, as far as the parts of the state are concerned, such as its irresponsibility, are concerned, we will see how, I think, you should consider this, the other aspect I have put to you. At the same time, things that will also be discussed at the meeting you responded to and which will take place on 5 December in Heraklion, to see how we move forward, so that people can grow next year. Because I can't see them grow next year unless there's a solution this year. We expect your answers on the damage suffered by producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u179	Because I have the texts in front of me, you put - not you, all - further questions, which are out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u180	This is always the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u181	There's an unanswered document, and we said we'd say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u182	You understand, Mr. Kegeroglu. Don't do what you don't understand. We're old and we're in agreement. Three questions are in the paper, thirteen orally. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to clarify this first. On the subject which Mrs Kalili has actually raised, I would like to say two things. In these sums which you have referred to, I have mainly seen infrastructural compensation. Therefore, I have not seen crop compensation or compensation for private farming infrastructures. We're interested in greenhouses now. I saw infrastructural compensation. Positive! Very positive! But I don't think it covers the conversation we're having here. Mrs Kaili, however, pointed out, with her question, the possibility of joining the Rural Development Programme, which is linked to dealing with agricultural losses, which are, however, due to climate change. That measure was initially included in the Rural Development Programme and in negotiations with the European Commission in 2015, that measure was zeroed and the result was its decommissioning. I will see whether there are possibilities today in the existing PAA, but I am not very optimistic about this. I think the legal possibilities have been exhausted. But we're going to investigate it so I'm not entirely unequivocal. I would like to make a specific reply to you on this subject, after I have completed my legal check on this matter. However, the compensation issues remain open. The answer is that we will try to exhaust all possibilities. I repeat that the De minimis part has kept it in the planning of the answers, because there is a question that Mr Paulakis is focusing quite much on, not because this is his desire for the original I assume, but to get rid of all the legal and economic debate - let me say it - on what it is that can be done. So I'm going to analyze the De minimis bit more. I'll put it in a box. However, I would always like to know that the part of De minimis is 'ultimum refugium', which is a last resort, when all possibilities have been exhausted and has a form of aid. So it's not a full compensation measure. I would like to make it clear to you that this is absolutely clear. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u184	We arrived at the last question to Mr Voridis, in the twelfth under number 230/18-11-2019, a timely question from the President of Chania, SYRIZA, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, on the subject: 'Reimbursements to producers of extreme weather phenomena in Chania'. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, you're a lawyer, but I see that you're starting and learning the subject. And that's the way it should be. You're an intelligent man. You're right-wing, but you're intelligent. I'll speak specifically now. I will be very clear, because here, unfortunately, you have accepted two passes and as eel you slipped. Elafonissi, Koutoura, Platanos, Paleochora, Western Crete. In four days two extreme weather effects. Storm, hail, water turbine, three turbine, again hail. Four days! A parentheses. Isn't that a climate change? I am fifty-four years old, first time I saw a water turbine in 2014 and now it has every year. It's a change. It wasn't like that twenty years ago. Don't go crazy! And I'm going to say some other things in my dentistry in relation to oil, etc. I shall speak in particular, because there are some differences from what I have tabled to the question. Because the count was made. You have the evidence, I think. And your general secretary knows letters. I saw him in Chania. It's specific. Lightning: 520.7 acres of nylon. Full! They're all buttonholes up. You know very well that if it rains, we'll have a devastated production. There's also fungi, fluids, more etc. Platanus: 12.8 acres destroyed, the infrastructure, from the first hydrotreater. Kudura: 455.15 acres from the hail. Hole holes in the nylons. 88.3 acres of unroasted greenhouses. They're fields. Total: 967,95 acres that want to change coverage and 101.1 acres that want replacement infrastructure. For several reasons, they did not pay ELGA. Based on this, they don't enter the AACC. We can open a lot of talk, because they didn't pay for the ELGA. There is a state's responsibility in this matter, without justifying them. "Jumi" is now. It takes 2,000 per acre to replace the roof cover with the nylon and it takes, in mid-weight, depending on whether the greenhouse infrastructure is wooden or irony - so I put in the middle line - 20,000 euros a hundred acres. In other words, it takes 4 million, so that these people can save their production, replace their infrastructure, not lose much of the frustrated production, which a piece has been lost, and can grow next year. These can only be given by the De minimis programme. And they can be given - and we have a little time to be given, by 31 December - because the programme - we also had a controversy with your Secretary-General - in 2017, 2018 and 2019 was 161.200,000, which Mr Arahovitis made the increase in the De minimis programme. It was 130,000,000, and we did 161,000,000. Of these 161,000,000 have been allocated for the years 2017, 2018, 2019, 900,000. So until December 31, we have 70,000. If we go next year, we'll have for 2020, 2021, 2022, 160,000. So now they have to be given. And we're late.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u186	Get to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u187	I'm saying the question. I'm saying, I'm just supporting it so we don't have any legal constituencies. So, with a political decision by 31 December, you can give out of the 70,000,000 remnant that's there - because that's not being carried, it doesn't go 160,000, 000, plus 70,000, 000...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u188	You analysed it before that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u189	I repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u190	Yeah, but I won't let you repeat it. You've been talking for five minutes. Because it's important, I left it. But we went to five minutes. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u191	So you can do this by political decision, as we did with farmers and milk that had reduced prices and strengthened it for the natural destruction that had taken place last year and for a ten days in Matti, people could not go to the standards and feed and we had a production problem, which we supported with 5 and 6 euros per animal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Polakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u193	So you can do the same thing. And you can do it soon, because now you need - already people have started and are charged - by the De minimis program.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, thirty-four students and schoolchildren and five of their educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Malion Heraklion and the 2nd Primary School of Naples Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Crete has its honour today, Mr. Vardakis and Mr. Polakis. Minister, the question was clear, if you intend, from the 70 million to give the 4 million. To be brief. The rest was said by Mr. Paulakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, although you know that I am a fan of clarity and simplicity, it may be that the presentation of matters does not plead for accuracy at any time. Why am I saying that? Because one must understand the De minimis mechanism, because there is an error in what Mr Paulis says. Let us therefore agree on a number of figures and agree with the operation and see what remains to be done. The figures, in many, are indeed the way Mr Paulakis told them. The De minimis programme is a programme of aid with de minimis aid, namely limited, small and medium-sized ones, which the European Union accepts. It considers, in other words, that, when they are given, they do not create a distortion of competition. That's his basic philosophy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u196	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u197	It is a programme that is laid down in the regulation. And the regulation says that it is actually a mechanism of aid and compensation and must be given and used as an alternative. What does it mean by subsidiary? When we don't have another main compensation mechanism. How does this program work? This programme has the so-called 'three-years' system. In other words, it has a basic amount, which means that it may not exceed that by the Member State granting such aid. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and Every three years, however, she's not special. That is, it is not 2017-2018-2019 a three-year period and then a second three years 2020-2021-2022. They've been rolling for three years. For example, the three-year period 2017-2018-2019 gave what it gave in 2017 and started a new rolling three-year period 2018-2019-2020. So what it has given in 2017 is removed from the rolling three years 2018-2019-2020. This is how it is calculated. Why am I saying that? Because there's a claim by Mr. Polakis that if we don't give that money now, that money is gone. It's not like that. If we don't give the money now, this money is counted for the next three years. Not added.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u198	Well, that's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u199	I didn't say it was added. I said they're counted, so they don't get lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u200	So 170 million minus 70 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u201	I'm talking again now, 'cause I'm trying to explain it. It's not, maybe, that simple. It has a technique. Why am I saying this? Let's say it's 134 million or three years. He didn't give the 42 million. This does not mean that in the next three years 176 million were made, but it does not mean that 90 million were made. So 134 million is every three years, but as a whole. Everything you give in this three-year period is removed from this three-year remnant. So what does that mean? It means, to say this specifically, that the amount - I read from those who do the account, from those who have been granted to date - is exactly what Mr Paulakis says - is 91 million. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. This amount will remain the same for 2020 if no aid is granted in 2019. It is not, therefore, a loss of the amount. On the contrary, if, for example, we gave tomorrow morning 43 million, we would not have had this amount again next year. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u202	We'd have it, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u203	Also, when a request is made...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u204	I'm sorry, let me make it a little live. You say you have 43 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u205	Let's say we have 43 million or 60 million, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u206	I say you have 70 million. Don't stick to it. If you give it by 31 December, on 1 January you will have for 2020-2021-2022 160 million. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u208	But that's the way it is, guys. What can we do? And if you don't now give the 70 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u209	In your dentistry, the rest. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u210	Explain why not? You make the following mistake. How do we calculate? We have 2019. What's the next three years? It is 2019-2020-2021. You go to three years 2020-2021-2022. Don't go there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u211	Minister, give the answer you want and we'll be done. I won't ask the question, question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u212	I stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u213	Before we go to Mr. Polakis' dentology, by my mistake and to keep an equal distance, except for Mr. Vardakis and Mr. Polakis, there is Mr. Igoumenides and Mr. Kegeroglou. To hear that the children are here, I had almost Crete. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. All right, Mr. Voridis has not been able to complete the answer. In short, in the next few days, you can give the amount I have told you. There's a difference in the amount I'd tabled to the question. The real picture of disasters is what I told you before. You've got it. It's the counting of the Department of Agriculture, with the municipalities below and the producers. I also have the names of the producers from behind, who say per producer how much the disaster is. I don't have an accurate picture of what the Tymbaki disaster is from the quarries. It is not huge - and there I think it is only the nylons, it is not from a tornado - and it can be added to that amount I have just said now. I think you can give it up. I think there is no point in continuing the three-year debate. The junk is there's money that can be given. I want to say two words. I asked you a timely question about greenhouses. It was a written question, which has not been answered. I was on September 12th. It was for an insect, the main enemy of tomato cultivation, the tuta absoluta, which has insulted large areas of greenhouse cultivation. And they're asking for compensation because it's something unexpected. It's never been down there before. Since the cultivation of tomato is a privileged sector for Crete and takes on a very large proportion of the country's total production, I would like to ask you what you intend to do about these requests. I also wanted to ask a question about which clubs have applied for and how the level of compensation requested is as a whole. Because, although they knew about the De minimis programme, they had come too late, just before the elections, to Mr Arachovitis and had not tabled the request. I'd like to know if the request has been filed, and especially from the Tymbac Association. Allow me, however, for a minute and this: with regard to olive oil - because I heard a lot - see the average temperatures and humidity October - November 2019, - November 2018, October 2017, - November 2017, and you will see what happened. The year of olive production this year in Crete was very good. It was a big feud, and by 20 September it went very well. But it didn't work cold. At noon it was 25, 26, 27 degrees. This was done in early November. The night grows, and there's more humidity. Of course, apart from the torch, there's goose-poor. Your general secretary will tell you that if he does a damage to the torch, torch and seaweed, they make eight as a disaster, and that reduces quality. There's no oil two and three lines now. It's six, seven the best, 1.2% -1.3%, and this thing throws the price. Here it comes up with a question of survival and the continuation of olive production. So we need to find a solution. And obviously, I don't agree with what Mr. Synthrakis said before the homicide. I have been very concerned with the homicide and mayor - because the development of my municipality - and as a Deputy Minister and as a Member of Parliament in Crete too. Indeed, the great axe fell in 2012. That's when a lot of money was cut. But we've raised it. We are late, but we have increased since 2018 what was given to Crete. I agree with what you said, that there must be as many spraying as those needed. I invoke the testimony of Mayor Castelli, Mylonakis, who is a great olive producer and has sprayed nine times. The same poorness he lives. He's been sprayed alone, that is. So it's not about spraying. It's a matter of these climatic conditions. So ask the European Union, because it is not possible for Irish calves because Brexit will also give 50 million for the basic product, which is a national product for the country, that it cannot give. Require it and we'll support it. I think that even until 31 December of the De minimis programme a small sum could be allocated for temporary relief, because what it says is true, that if this is the case, it will not grow the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u215	Mr Minister, you have the floor to close the many questions you have had to answer today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u216	They were welcome, and I consider the questions to be useful. They deal with these issues and it is important that they are discussed in Parliament. Well, with De minimis, I think we've cleared the mechanism. The government's intention - I say again - is to run out of any compensation. To get rid of that. But the other thing I'm telling you about De minimis is, I'm not dissuasive. I'm just saying that to take account of it. Because, look, the De minimis requests are correctly transmitted to the government and the government needs to assess them - and there, indeed, is the point that there is a political decision, and rightly so - but the government - to reach agreement - has requests for compensation De minimis received from Mr Arachovitis - not that man had no intention of satisfying them, I am sure he intended to satisfy them - of ECU 100 million. I have, of course, to admit something to this House. My late mother was a Sfakian, so I have a connection with the island. But I also have one - let me say this - an objective crisis, a fair crisis, in the way in which the issue of financial aid needs to be approached as a whole. So in the context of this consideration, which I am sure you will all be with us - because we must take full account of the role of MP Chania, but also with the feeling that we are representing the nation, so the appropriate solutions and answers will be given to these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u217	So you're committing yourself, but you don't want to say it yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Minister. We're now entering the next circle. It's three questions to the Ministry of Interior. The present Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. The fourth question will be discussed with number 260/26-11-2019, first question by MP, Thessaloniki, the Communist Party of Greece, Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Disasters due to heavy rainfall in municipalities of the Regional Unit of Halkidiki". Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, every year, the same and the same time. With the first possible rains once again, we have floods in Halkidiki, as in other parts of our country. And this time the heavy rains that fell in Halkidiki, particularly in the municipalities of Sithonia, Nea Propontida and Aristotle, brought very great damage to homes - I went and saw them with my own eyes - in businesses, farming, and of course, on the road network of the region and the provincial and rural ones. Especially in Olympiad, which was at the heart of the disasters, flooded the torrents that pass through it, thus destroying dozens of homes or becoming dangerously inhabited, while there were even inhabiting people from their own homes that evening. Many houses in Olympiad, even now, have no water, due to the destruction of the network, while the sewage pipeline was damaged to the biological cleansing. Also in the area - I mention some of the damages and disasters, there are much more and extensively - the provincial road that connects Polygyros to Ierissos at the moment is not working, due to subsidence at a certain point. Of course, Minister, we must say here that the whole world knows that these floods are caused and repeated every year throughout the winter, of course because of the lack of the necessary and necessary flooding projects, which all governments have never given the money they need to study, plan and implement. So, on the basis of the above, we are asking you about your own actions, which, as you can see, should be of an urgent nature, so that all the damage suffered by the people's property is quickly recorded for both the first and second residences, which are often excluded, and, of course, the damages to be compensated for at 100% and not at lower rates, that the houses that are adjacent to the flooded streams be checked for their static adequacy - we have seen them with our own eyes, some have a serious problem - that all disasters should be immediately and fully recovered and that, at last, Mr Minister, the money necessary for the design, as we have said, and the construction of the necessary flooding projects in Halkidiki, for example - something that is urgent and necessary - all the droughts and, of course, restoring all the problemy networks. Given that in Olympiad next to these currents that cross it, there is also the well-known mining activity of gold, as well as many disposal sites with hazardous waste from previous holdings, we think that an automation from the relevant government departments should be made for any transport - we do not know - of toxic pollutants and of cadmium.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u220	Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Dell'Allis, indeed most of you have said, it is absolutely accurate. I was in the Olympiad on Saturday morning as part of the government stadium. The disasters were very important. Indeed, the torrents - if I counted well, three or four - crossed the city's residential fabric, ended up in the sea and caused many problems: flooded houses, underground, destruction of home equipment and, of course, damage to infrastructure, including the Polygyros - Ierissos provincial road and a large part of the forest road network. So the measures that are being taken are as follows. Firstly, they were immediately formed, in consultation with the Mayor of the Municipality of Aristotle, the tripartite steps to record the damages of individuals and, on the basis of the ministerial decision that exists, to restore up to a certain amount - if I am not mistaken, EUR 6 000 - of the damaged household equipment. This will cover a large part of the damage. Mostly it was underground in which there was no high value household equipment, so it would cover the largest part of them. Secondly, the recording of infrastructure damage, including the road network, has started in detail. The main problem, however - and it was the immediate problem we faced - was that the mechanism should be mobilised immediately, because, as you know, between Saturdays we were in Olympiad and Monday mornings, there was a new wave of bad weather, so the necessary measures had to be taken so that the most serious problems could not arise and we might be mourning in the area and dead. There was an elderly couple who climbed a tree in order to be saved. The Region of Central Macedonia has also been mobilised. Mr. Djijkosta was present on Saturday morning when the autopsy took place. There is no mention at the moment of toxic substances being transported to the beach from the rain. The North Greek Environment Inspectors' Corps will carry out an immediate emergency check to see if there is a problem. It's an inspectors' body of the Ministry of the Environment, which will see immediately. Anti-military infrastructure is a huge problem. I personally felt very bad when people told me that this is not the first time, it is not the second time, it is not the third time, but it is the fourth time in the last three - four years that face the same problem. And we must finally move on to these flooding projects, because it is not even very intense rainfall that is at risk not only of property, but also of life. A study of about 500,000 euros has been presented which settles the currents of the region and which we will try to integrate directly into a financial programme either from the Public Investment Programme or from the new phase of the financial instrument. The projects must be started immediately. We expect the Municipality of Aristotle to have its technical document with the disasters, in order to grant exceptional funding to meet the immediate needs. We will be consistently prepared to help both the region and the municipality in whatever projects they need in order to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u223	The Minister said that damages are being sent - we do not question that - and that there will be compensation of up to EUR 6 000. Okay, at first glance, I happened to visit Olympiada, and I saw that it's too big damage and it's not just underground. They're homes too, they're holiday homes, and I wouldn't say they're luxurious villas. They are country houses of poor, simple, popular people who have to spend a few days in the summer and rest. We think that these too should be compensated. I keep and make a special reference to what you said that there is no reference from environmental inspectors to environmental pollution from the mining activity of the gold that exists there. You officially said it in the House. You take responsibility, of course, too. What we know, however, and was certainly written in the media is that in 2017-2018 the gold company there built a project to divert this stream, the Bashdakis stream in Olympiad, as it is said, to divert the water away from the mine area. We do not know - we are honestly wondering, I imagine, that the technical services of the Ministry will look into it and find it - whether this has affected the flood of this current that passes through Olympiad, literally crosses it, and which has brought these great disasters. In fact, parallel to the other torrent, the torrent of Mavrokaka, also overflowed and destroyed a piece of the road. But here, Minister, I think we need to emphasise something very serious, extremely serious. You should know, too, I imagine you know, but the people who hear from us that all these olympiad streams, Mavrokkas, Bashdenakis, Baxina have a certain historical flooding history. We've looked into it and seen that we had flooded in 2000, 2006, 2010, 2011, twice in 2014. However, these streams that have such historical flooding as well as other streams, but also these, have remained outside the flood risk management plan of the region of Central Macedonia. It is really to wonder how these streams were left out of regional planning. Thus, despite the fact that Halkidiki is known to be one of the prefectures manifesting too many floods, it remains the question that these streams and other streams were left out of the design consistently an entire area there, the Cross, the Olympiad, the Army, the Great Panagia, Ierissos, the Gomachi being exposed to floods. We believe that what is being done mainly with anti-military protection so far is some individual restorations and, above all, patches until the next rain comes to scan them. In any case, we have also followed the previous debate on the other Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u224	But finish it up. We don't care about the other ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u225	No, I bring it as an example, Mr President. It is always to blame, you know, and in particular in recent years, the particular weather phenomena and climate change, using all your governments and your alibi to hide their own responsibilities. Here we heard a moment ago that even the torso was responsible for climate change. Overall, we say that these flooding projects, which are so necessary, are proving their usefulness every year at this time, are not eligible by the European Union and, in any case, are not eligible for what is eligible for very little money. They are at the demands of the public investment budget and of the ESDP, and in any case they become fragmentary in the absence of any central planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u226	Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. We have said this before, when an area is so often hit by floods, there is a serious problem and we must resolve it immediately. As far as the first part, your first report on toxic waste is concerned, there is also a relevant document by Vice-President Halkidiki, who says, "Finally, I would like to inform you that to date there has been no mention of a complaint or an indication of a leak of toxic fertiliser materials". Then, because the complaint is often not something that may be visible to the eye, the Body of Environment Inspectors of Northern Greece will immediately carry out checks to see it. As far as anti-military phenomena are concerned, the government is determined. The high-risk areas are too many in Greece now. Extreme weather phenomena are becoming more and more common, as we experienced in the last week in successive waves, because apart from Halkidiki, we were then in Thassos, where there were similar sizes, if not larger, disasters. It was also visible that human errors, construction and public works, are responsible for overcoming some torrents. So what we are going to do is also in the new financing programme, which is under study and is also being studied and financed, to go and fund flooding projects in all high-risk areas. We will exceptionally try to study the work of Central Macedonia in the Olympiad region immediately so that we can have the study ready to proceed directly to the tender. I believe that, because they are very complex, there are quite a few wet streams, it will be a project of several million euros, which will be needed. But it is the least we can do for the inhabitants of the region, so that every time it rains it is not at risk of flooding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u228	We move on to the next question, which is fifth under number 251/26-11-2019, a top-level question by MP B2 West Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Completion of projects to restore school buildings in the Municipality of Heidari". Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, it is a matter that I have raised with my first parliamentary question. We have discussed this together in plenary since the Step of the House. The earthquake of July, although relatively small, was moderate, led to great damage to Haidari and other areas of western Athens, mainly due to the bad ground. In Haidari, however, the blow was important. In particular, as far as school buildings are concerned, nineteen of the forty-two were found to have extensive damage and some were considered totally inappropriate. The municipality's calculations are that the damage was at the rate of 300,000 euros. The Ministry has undertaken to release EUR 200,000, of which only EUR 50 000 have been allocated, resulting in the work being carried out largely in the static part of them not to be completed, as contractors have stopped all work until they are paid. The question is why this payment of the amount you have committed to pay is delayed and if you are committed to paying this amount in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u230	Good. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arseni, in our regular weekly meeting on the subject of the Municipality of Haidario, I would like to tell you that the earthquake took place at a time before the new municipal authorities were set up. Immediately after the earthquake, the newly elected mayor, Mr. Deikos, had come to the Ministry, presented to me the problems that existed for the schools and the municipal grant of 200,000 euros was immediately signed in order to meet the immediate needs. Of these EUR 200,000, the Municipality of Haidario has already received EUR 62,000, which have been disbursed, paid and sent supporting documents for the next 64,500 euros. I should like to say here that the supporting documents for the extraordinary restoration of natural disasters are made, as I have told you, by submitting the costs incurred and credited directly to the beneficiaries as soon as they send the costs they bear. There was a delay, which was corrected, concerning the transfer of money from the Public Investment Programme to the code for compensation for damages. If I am not mistaken, the second amount, 64,500 euros, will be paid from day to day, will be transferred to the account of the Municipality of Heidari. I think maybe it's over by tomorrow. It's very important, as you know, the matter of schools. Fortunately, the earthquake, even though it was medium-sized, took place at a time when the schools were closed, so there was no danger. I think the restorations will go ahead. Already most schools in the Municipality of Haidari operate smoothly. By the way, I would like to say that I am very sad, as we speak about children, since the death of the eight-year-old - I see the Minister of Justice here. After twenty-eight years, if I'm not mistaken, she died of a child in Greece 2019 by diphtheria. It is very important that we understand all the risks posed by their parents by the anti-infectious movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u232	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary, and for your commitment to direct disbursement and the second amount. It is very important that the total amount should be disbursed. The situation is not entirely smooth. Know that the student community is very upset, because it is just living in schools with semi-finished works and feeling a feeling of abandonment. There have been occasional announcements and student mobilisations against this. So it's too important for the school's smooth operation, for there to be full repayment. It will be very important to see what will happen to the other victims of the earthquake, who are the homes and residents of the region. As you know, a huge number of homes have been found inappropriate. It is an issue that we have discussed too many times together and has not gone ahead with, and there is no clear indication of how repayment will go ahead. I know that it's a little beyond the exact school thing, but because I know you're informed it would be important to have a commitment now too, if you're ready. In any case, it is very important that full repayment should go ahead. I'm still telling you, there's a little social unrest about this, as projects in schools have stayed in the middle of it. The kids go to schools where they're a granddaughter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u234	Good. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Up to 200,000 euros will be paid as soon as the supporting documents come. We'll try to speed it up. You know, many times there is a bad bureaucracy, as in this particular case, which concerns, in particular, transfers of appropriations to pay the bills. The same is true of the opportunity, since it is relevant, and of the previous question. We are trying to speed up the provision of money to the beneficiaries of local authorities to deal with natural disasters. As soon as the Municipality of Haidari sends the remaining sum, the remaining 80,000 euros, we will do all we can to solve it soon. I will be at the disposal of all the municipalities - yesterday after the earthquake in Crete, the Ministry of Interior contacted the Ministry of Interior with all the nearby municipalities and mayor Kythera and Mayor Platanias - in order to have an initial picture. In general, we are trying to be as forward as possible - if you like - in dealing with natural disasters. Thank you very much. And we close with the last question, which is the second question under number 249/25-11-2019. As I said, the question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Lebanon.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this border crossing of Laimos is a timeless request for local and regional authorities in the region and is also included in the confidence-building measures between the two countries, Greece and Northern Macedonia. This agreement was signed in March 2019 for the opening and ratified by the parliaments of the countries in May, ours, with No4614/2019. At the same time, the Joint Monitoring Committee for the Interreg-IPACBC programme at its fourth meeting in Laimo instructed the managing authority to prepare, together with the partners from the two countries, the invitation to the projects required for the operation of the plant. Thus, around EUR 5,000,000 were saved, of which 3,000 euros are for the Greek side. On the Greek side, the partners selected were the decentralised administration of Epirus - Western Macedonia, which has control over the operation of the border crossings, the Region of Western Macedonia as a partner to undertake the studies and the implementation of the projects and assist the Municipality of Prespes for the renewal of Laimos. We note that this crossing is of the highest priority for the Prespes region, which will show it as one of the very important eco-tourism destinations. At the same time, however, the agreement contained a provision of a procedural nature, namely the establishment of a joint committee of experts from both countries, and this meeting should take place three months after the agreement has been activated. My question primarily concerns the first question, namely whether the government intends to launch a border crossing so that European funds which have already been committed are not lost. We should also point out that, in the first quarter of December, the monitoring committee for the Interreg cross-border programme - IPACBC Greece - Northern Macedonia, and we would like to ask whether the government will take care of this meeting, as has so far not gone forward, to have a specific body so that our country can make certain commitments so that the money is not lost in the programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u238	Mrs Perkas, as your assent, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, knows, the teacher who has handled the issue as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, the opening of the border crossing is an transnational agreement. It was part of the General Press Agreement. It'll move on, it'll happen. We believe that border crossings are bridges of friendship, join peoples and do not divide them, so we think it can develop the wider Prespes region as well. I would also say that it would be a good thing, apart from the border crossing, to make improvements on the road network and especially on the axes from the Kastoria-Florina National Road to the Prespecies, so that the crossing can be more comfortable and safer. You know that our country must comply with the three successive Schengen decisions on upgrading border stations. 767/2008, 339/2016 and 2225/2017 have specific specifications for all border stations. That is where the Prespes Border Station will be set up. We will obviously also make use of the money available in our joint programme, the Interreg - IPACBC, and we will also seek funding from the European Security Fund, which will immediately proceed to the tendering and renovation of all cross-border stations, one which you raise, in order to have the security rules that are needed, but also a specific provision and to upgrade them, because - among other things - it is also the first picture of a visitor in our country. So we'll move on. The central planning and coordination of actions will not be carried out by the decentralised administrations, will be centralised by the Ministry of the Interior and for the fourteen, if I am not mistaken, border stations and we will follow the path closely. It will soon also be submitted by the special agency for financing all the border stations, including Niki, which is in your constituency, in order to improve the picture and adapt to the European directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u239	Mrs. Perka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u240	I also raise a matter of urgency on the date, i.e. if the committee responsible for the project has been set up, because it is on the agenda very soon, and I would also like to give some further information, because I really want to hug this work and move it as quickly as possible, since it is very special. Firstly, it is of key importance, because it depends on this inauguration and another two parallel projects that run. It is the Prespecies Park, environmental protection, where for the three countries, Albania, Northern Macedonia and Greece - with the delay of Albania - it is finally moving forward and it is very important, as is an operational plan that has been run by the European Commission with very considerable investment for the region. Therefore, we understand that it is of great importance and will also give some information, because the proximity of Prespa and Ohrid will help her very much and tourists. What do I mean? According to the Neighbour Statistical Service, in 2018 in Ohrid, there were two hundred sixty-six thousand tourists, some eighty thousand of whom were foreign. We note that in the same year the entire region of Western Macedonia visited it a hundred twenty - three thousand visitors, only twenty thousand of whom were foreign. This means that it is crucial for the region and after the frustration and all that is done, we think you really need to embrace this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u242	Very soon, Mr President. He will indeed hug and move on. We're already in close cooperation with all the actors involved from our side, like the police, the fire brigade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u243	I'm interested in the committee when it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u244	I think it'll be soon. Just prepare us and our own proposals in general for all the design. It shall be an independent authority of public revenue and in particular the administration of customs matters. So that's what goes on. You are right indeed that the Prespes are one of the most beautiful places in our country. It is a pity that he does not have the tourism he deserves and it is a pity that he does not contribute with the percentage that he can bring to the GDP of the country. I would therefore say that, in cooperation with the Region of Western Macedonia, as well as with the Ministry of Tourism, it must also be a special tourist campaign, if you like. Egnatia Street has greatly reduced distances. Moreover, it is much easier to travel from Thessaloniki or even Athens to Prespes than in previous years. I think it is a good opportunity to make use of it, and in the context of respect for the beautiful environment, to develop tourism and increase the incomes of the people there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u245	The topical and urgent debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Measure in civil and commercial matters — Further harmonisation of Greek law with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 November 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle of articles and amendments. The Members who will want to speak will register electronically as soon as the majority rapporteur, Dimitris Kouvelas, is in step and the list will be closed as soon as the rapporteur from SYRIZA Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos comes down from Step. Do we agree on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u247	The House therefore agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas, has the floor. Please open the system of electronic recordings. Here you go, Mr. Kouvela.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary following an in-depth debate and an exchange of worthwhile views and putting forward constructive proposals to the committee, a draft law that really contributes to the effective stimulus to the institution of justice, because all these years of the unprecedented crisis which has hit our country, unfortunately, top institutions have been deceived in the eyes of the citizens. These institutions must be protected and restored. Justice is one of the main pillars of our democracy. In any case, it is a modern legislative framework which will help to bring about a more rapid and effective administration of justice, which is a precondition for the economic and social development of our country, a legislative framework that is fully compatible with the rule of law which is the refuge of the weak, above all. This project actually comes to contribute to something very important. On the one hand, the quickest solution to private disputes at a lower cost to the benefit of citizens, on the other hand, to reduce the legal material, through an alternative institution, of mediation. Now, what differences fall within the institution with its gradual start-up. First of all, there are all the differences which fall under the regular procedure of the Multilateral Court of First Instance and relate to actions to be filed as from 15 January 2020. It is the family differences, other than the matrimonial differences, which relate to actions to be filed as from 15 March 2020 and finally, the differences, which are subject to the regular procedure of the one-sided Court of First Instance, concerning the actions to be filed from 15 May 2020 onwards. The aim of this draft law is to ensure that the institution of mediation operates as a credible additional method of resolving private disputes before resorting to the justice procedure before, in other words, bringing an action according to the above. Therefore, we do not deprive anyone of his natural judge. We do, Minister, have a draft law which is a sign of good legislature and is coming to amend, improve, heal, failures and omissions of the two previous relevant laws, of PASOK government Law No.3898/2010 and of SYRIZA - ANEL government No. 4512/2018. It is because some colleagues from these parties express themselves positively for this draft law, but they complain that we are simply copying them, that this is not a simple copy paste. It's clear, it's clear. I would remind you that the first law simply did not walk in practice, nor was it even backed up by the necessary information to the citizens, as the Minister himself recommended at that time, not on his own responsibility, however. And the other recent law of the SYRIZA government simply did not work, as its provisions were tripled from a constitutional point of view in the administrative plenary session of the Ice Bay. I am making this brief historical reference to see where we are today and what needs we need to address. What we are doing with this legislative intervention is to align ourselves with the judgment of the Ice Bay, as well as with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which had judged as particularly restrictive the criteria laid down by Greek legislation for the process of setting up mediators. In addition, in the process of drawing up this draft law, account has been taken of the European and international good practice of this institution, and this practice and its effects have been reflected in this legislation. Of course the Ministry's leadership showed its good intentions, listening carefully and taking into account good ideas and suggestions from wherever they came. As a lawyer, but also all colleagues in the Chamber, we have experienced the complaints, the concerns of our citizens and our clients, and our own personal concerns about the delay in the administration of justice, but also about its quality, despite the efforts made in recent years to improve the functioning of our judicial system. The consequence of this is to feel insecure as regards the administration of justice, which often goes to the limits of mistrial and veto, mainly because of the excessive number of cases the judges are called upon to judge. And to avoid misunderstandings, the institution of mediation is a tool of extrajudicial resolution of private differences in less time and less cost. It does not replace justice, it does not annul it, it does not supplement it, but it improves it by reducing the burden of the courts. The Ombudsman is not a judge, nor an arbitrator, nor a judge of the dispute. Its task is to make it easier for the parties to come to a consensual settlement of their dispute. This is the ambition and the result required in practice by the institution that was essentially introduced into the European legal order by Directive 52/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council, while functionally, it is actually introduced into the Greek legal order by this draft law. As regards Articles, from the first to the ninth, they are mainly legal provisions, whereas from Articles 10 to 33, they are more technical matters relating to mediation and the procedure. I distinguish between the following elements and points which indicate the value of this legislation. Point one: a separate law on mediation is now in place. It is very important for all those involved in an institution or a field of law to know from the outset that only one piece of legislation is sufficient and can resort to it. This is important, ladies and gentlemen, as the totality of provisions makes it very difficult for judges, lawyers and, in general, for the officials of justice. Point 2: This legislation is based on European and international experience, with the best example of Italy, which has led to a large number of successful mediation. So he unloaded the courts and contributed to a faster and more efficient, but also a more economic solution to a significant number of private individuals. Point 3: Mandatory recourse to mediation is currently limited solely to an initial session of EUR 50 for the Ombudsman, and from now on the process will only continue if the parties so wish, without even having to reach an agreement. A solution is also foreseen in the event that the parties do not find it in the person of the Ombudsman, this initial compulsory session. It will then be the Central Intermediary Committee which will be appointed by a miner from the local appropriate register. However, disputes in which a party is a public, local and legal party are excluded from the compulsory first meeting are generally excluded from the provisions of this draft law. Point 4: The compulsory presence of a legal document, i.e. a lawyer for each of the parties - except for cases of minor disputes and consumer disputes - gives increased authority to the institution, but also security in the procedure, since citizens are unable to know legal aspects of their case, which are raised in mediation. In addition, the lawyer guarantees the protection of interests, in particular the weakest parties. We realise how important the role of the lawyer, who is guaranteed by this legislation in the mediation process, is. It is important not only in the stages of a trial, but also here that we are actually talking about an alternative form of dispute resolution, out-of-court proceedings. Point 5: This piece of legislation cures unconstitutional failures in relation to the cost of the procedure and other points, since the costs have now fallen quite well for the benefit of citizens, according to the European cheques, who do not want a great deal of extra burden for the citizen, when he wants to try to resolve his dispute, either alternatively or through recourse to justice. The remuneration of both lawyers and the ombudsman shared by both parties shall be determined by agreement of the parties concerned. Point 6: The mediation practice drawn up at the end of the procedure and its filing by either party in the local court’s competent secretariat, accompanied by the payment of the paradox only EUR 50, is a strong enforceable title, in accordance with Article 904 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Point 7: Includes the suspension of limitations, amortisation deadlines and the procedural deadlines of the Code of Civil Procedure and the legal effects obtained by holding the mandatory first session, but also the full - if any - of voluntary mediation. All of this is regulated in detail, without any doubt as to exactly which regulation is in force in any case. Eighth point: Legislation incorporates principles and rules of ethics, which must govern the functioning of the institution and the behaviour of the Ombudsman, with a further proportional application of the European Code of Conduct, where required. On that basis, the behaviour of the ombudsmen shall be monitored and evaluated and disciplinary penalties provided for as appropriate. So far as the institution is concerned, the principle of impartiality, independence, neutrality and, of course, the confidentiality of the Ombudsman in the performance of his duties is concerned. Point Ninth: This Legislation lays down in detail the composition, operation and responsibilities of the Central Mediation Committee and the powers of four subcommittees operating within it. The conditions for authorisation and the way in which the training providers of candidates for ombudsmen can be either legal persons under private law involving legal associations, training centres and lifelong learning centres of our higher education institutions, or natural or legal persons legally established and intended to provide such training. Finally, provision is made for the minimum content of the educational programme, the matter being examined and the examination procedure for the accreditation of ombudsmen. There is therefore no doubt at all how these issues will develop in the light of comments, suggestions, ideas from all sides. Point 10th: This legislation establishes systematic monitoring of the functions and results of the mediation institution by means of reports submitted by ombudsmen to the Central Mediation Committee, but also from the last to the Ministry of Justice, with a view to continuous improvement and promotion of the institution. Point 11: This is an issue which has been raised again by all the wings of the Greek Parliament, as well as by those of those who are interested in the institution. It is that of legal aid to low-income citizens who find it difficult to respond even to this low-cost process, the compulsory first session, but then. This makes it easier for all citizens to access mediation. Indeed, this draft law gives all of us the opportunity to realise that the government, the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice and all of us are aiming to transform, over time, the mediation process into a conscious choice among the citizens, with direct benefits in two directions, both towards reducing the judiciary and decommissioning the functioning of justice and, more generally, for the benefit of citizens at cost and mainly of time. Obviously in Greece the culture of recourse to the institution is not developed and it is necessary to cultivate it. No law can do that. It requires that everyone involved or interested in establishing the institution of mediation, with the edge of the Ministry of Justice, should be involved in an information campaign with citizens and not just citizens. In conclusion, I will repeat the proposal that I made in committee, Minister, to familiarise myself with the institution of mediation already since secondary education and to introduce mediation as a special lesson in legal schools throughout the country. Only in this way will the culture we want be cultivated so that the institution can operate in the long term and effectively in practice. At the same time, a ministerial amendment, which regulates a number of urgent issues - the Minister will refer to it - and the administrative autonomy of the very important 'Home of the Child' structure, i.e. the office for the protection of minors. Here I invite you all to vote for the bill and the ministerial amendment as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u249	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 'intermediation' means the structured process in which two or more parties voluntarily attempt to resolve an agreement with the Ombudsman. Intermediation is not a joint negotiation or compromise. It has rules and a specific procedure to be followed. The rules shall be adapted to the requirements of the Parties. The five-fold mediation is the introduction of a third, neutral and independent person, a trained mediator, which will help the disputing parties in the negotiation process to find a commonly accepted solution. In other words, the dispute is resolved by agreement between the parties, which have full control of this agreement. Law 3898/2010 introduced incomplete and with no effect the institution of mediation in our country. The institution, with the responsibility of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, has not worked in our country and has not been able to embrace society. This law has essentially allowed the creation of a mediation training industry. In 2014, the government committed itself to creditors that mediation would be re-regulated by provisions, which would be part of a memorandum law. This explains why the institution of mediation and the law-making of SYRIZA was integrated into a law, Law 4512. For the above reasons, the SYRIZA government, after taking over the country's governance in 2015, took measures to strengthen the institution in a related context. There was cooperation with the European Commission. A special legislative committee was set up for a year and a half, with the cooperation of judges, university professors and lawyers. The Legislative Committee assessed the institution and tabled the legislative proposals, which became state law with Law 4512/2018. Under this law, Articles 178 to 206, the mediation process was reorganised on a proper basis. Innovations, such as the functioning of the Central Mediation Committee, were introduced with the participation of five judges, so that there would also be a similar institutionality. The doubling of the training hours of the ombudsmen was foreseen by this law, as well as the reduction in the costs of training. State universities were also introduced into the training of ombudsmen. Certifications have been modernised. Obligation has been laid down in certain differences and many other positive provisions. I'm going to be a little more focused on the very important innovation that was introduced by v. 4512, i.e. the need for lawyers to be present at the mandatory initial session. This will strengthen legal certainty, especially for the weaker part. It is ensured that there will be no possibility of one party appearing with a legal representation and the other without, thereby undermining the equality of arms, impartiality and equal distance. The draft that came for consultation was a possible performance of lawyers and it is positive that the Ministry should be changed as to the compulsoryity of their performance. The draft law, which is introduced, deals with and copies the legislative initiative of SYRIZA. It effectively abolishes the provisions of Law 4512 and restores them to specific points. There is therefore a alleged introduction or reform of the institution, but it is not in practice. No innovative or rhetoric contributes to the country's legal order. The question therefore arises why you have not confined yourself to amendments to the articles of Law 4512, but you have gone on to abolish them globally. The General Accounting Office of the State, on page 71 of its report on this draft law, states: ‘In particular, the provisions of existing legislation, Articles 178 to 206, of Law 4512 shall be repeated’. The General Accounting Office, ladies and gentlemen, says that exactly. The issues raised by the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay were focused on the question of the remuneration of lawyers to the compulsory performance. This was obviously resolved and it was therefore a constitutional piece of legislation with a new decision. That was the only difference that existed, the difference with the administrative plenary. But there are also several differences in this legislation. The most important thing is that the central feature of Law 4512, i.e. the balancing of the public interest with the private initiative, is abolished. This aim was for the institution to function effectively. This balance is now being circumvented by turning the plateau to the benefit of individuals. In particular, for ombudsman training bodies under this draft law, negative enlargement is introduced to private individuals. The risks posed by not establishing strict criteria for the establishment of intermediaries training bodies are very serious. You must not ignore them, but instead you must foresee them and prevent them. It is clear that the introduction of compulsory mediation in our lives has opened up a new market for professionals. This means that there must be guarantees of serious and reliable education. European Union law enables Member States to impose restrictions, but also strict conditions for the establishment and functioning of training providers. The introduction of other private bodies in case (c) of Article 22(1), which certainly did not exist in Law 4512, abolishes any institutional control over the training bodies of intermediaries. It completely opens up this sensitive sector to private individuals. The argument for the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is unsatisfactory because that judgment concerns the previous law, Law 3898/2010. Already under Law 4512, the field was widened with regard to training centres, providing for a number of forms to be set up, and for the first time introduced public universities into training bodies. There was no reason, therefore, to introduce individuals into the process of training ombudsmen. With the proposed provision, training providers will have as prerequisites the establishment and operation of a low quality assurance, quality control and control function. It is obvious both with legal and logical arguments that there should be a limit and a safeguard as to who can draw up ombudsmen. Alternatively, and if you insist on providing privately for training providers, we propose that a minimum guarantee be set up to set up a large amount of capital, as well as adequate and large building infrastructure, combined with the conditions for the authorisation of type 2 CEDSIBIMs. We are also proposing that the civil liability insurance agreement should be increased. The conditions for a trainer to be considered as under Article 22(6) should also be cumulative and not diagnosed. I would mention here that it is good that our proposal does not make any distinctions for judges, pensioners and that there is no distinction between training providers in terms of trainers and their qualifications. As far as associations of intermediaries are concerned, we highlight the risks that may arise from the absence of strict rules on their establishment and operation. The lack of rules will cause a great deal of trouble that the hand of the market, of course, cannot solve. Initially, these associations, consisting of a number of professionals of different specialties, are likely to act as quasi-legal corporations and provide legal advice and services to citizens of doubtful quality and validity. Thus, citizens' rights are being jeopardised. In the form of a package of services, there is a risk that they will fish customers, without guaranteeing the services provided and without being subject to any supervision by a competent body, as is the case with law firms which are subject to strict control. This means that the ombudsman must not be dependent on employers' interests, nor should he be accountable to any supervisor. If the independence of the ombudsmen is not absolute, they will not succeed in inspiring confidence and the institution will decline too quickly. We are, at least, proposing that these associations of persons should be governed proportionately by the provisions on legal companies. It would also be a good thing if they were to be declared to the Central Mediation Committee to be subject to disciplinary action under an explicit provision. We also propose that you legislate to fully integrate the European Code of Conduct for Mediation Ombudsmen and Providers - what is reflected in Article 20 as associations of persons - as defined in No. CEPEJ (2018) 24 of the competent European Commission, adapted, of course, to the Greek legal system. I shall refer to some specific points in the bill concerning the visibility and advertising of ombudsmen. We propose that the rule of the Code of Laws should be applied proportionately in order to preserve the validity of the institution as an alternative way of resolving disputes. I believe that we all agree on this - a clear and strict framework which leaves no room for misinterpretation. The possibility of advertising should therefore fall within such a regulatory framework and not within the freedom of the private sector. As far as legal aid is concerned, which is ultimately part of the mandatory initial session, we propose providing for a specific fee for the Ombudsman to be provided in accordance with the procedure with the provisions of legal aid. Submission of applicants and persons receiving legal assistance to mediation serves both the same and the same information about the institution. The speed of handling and resolving cases will ease the beneficiaries of legal aid more quickly, reduce the court plates, speed up the payment of lawyers' fees. The parties by definition to legal aid are impossible, and that is why they should be given the opportunity through the mandatory initial session to know the mediation, to follow the procedure and to resolve their dispute at the least cost. It is also proposed that a special register of legal aid agents should be kept at the request of them, of course, similar to that of lawyers. Finally, procedurally, the applicant could be given legal aid to appoint the Ombudsman in the decision to appoint the lawyer, the curator and the notary. For the local jurisdiction of the compulsory original session, we propose that there be provision per court of first instance at the headquarters of the Court of First Instance and with the possibility of extending to the district of appeal. Of course, it must also be taken into account for islands. One issue is that there should be a specific provision for complex trials, as there is a risk that one of the parties might use the mandatory session of paradoxically, so that the institution is affected, but there is also legal uncertainty. In closing the initial suggestion, I would like to say that it is positive to accept the proposals that the Minister mentioned on specific articles, such as those relating to the setting-up of the central mediation committee, the maintenance of the incompatibility, the restriction of the possibility of involving retired and honorary judges, and the obligation that the title of a foreign university be equal to Greek EEI rather than equivalent. That's important. Finally, we repeat that there is no obvious reason for a different date of initiation of the different procedures. This forecast will create more problems than direct and overall problems. We should bear in mind the legal certainty and the objections to the audience or the proposals made in actions brought by lawyers. The best solution, therefore, will be to start implementing everyone at the beginning of the court year and, if that is not possible, to set a date for the start of all proceedings. With regard to the amendment that has been tabled, I shall refer to it in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Kalamatiani, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I've kept your time. As the number of Members registered to speak is not large, I propose that the Minister be posted after the speaker and on the amendment, and then you will have a right of denial for the rapporteurs and the speakers to put you on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u252	I'm closing here then, Mr. President. But I would like you to have your tolerance then for the debate on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u253	I call for the consent of the special speakers to be inserted in Mr Velopoulos' request for his post. Because of planned employment, he wants to leave the House. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor, but only for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u254	I thank the House and the President very much for their understanding. So let's start with the reasoning of the government's specific choice. What's the point? The reasoning is to decongested and accelerate. You know, sometimes thought from practice is far too many steps, too many steps. So today, at the same time, you are making a financial burden for citizens. They'll pay. Is it for free?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u255	It's going to be cheaper.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u256	They'll pay, Mr. Chiara. Let's talk about it. And maybe that's a long time ago. Here's what I'm telling you. It's not free. And I'll tell you why it's not free.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u257	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u258	In other European countries it is free, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u259	Don't have a dialogue. Tell you where it is free and the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u260	He doubts what I'm saying to him, and he knows that Germany knows her better than he does. So we're going to the essentials. We have proposed something completely different for justice and I think it is a good choice. You want to dismantle justice? Copy the American model. The prosecutor must not be above, be down and cooperate with both parties and with the defendant to go to the judge and propose a sentence. That's how it's done in America. And when the defendant doesn't agree, the sentence is much bigger if he goes to court. But if one or the other agrees, the American model actually disproves you from the appeals and the Marios Ice. Because if the rivals agree, you don't have to go to the court or to the Arena Ice. So one option of decommissioning is to find a way as justice to work properly. Well, I've been telling you for a very long time now. Why would the D.A. be up there trialing? Be down like it is in America. Let's change our system. So what do you gain? You're winning two-thirds of the ongoing trials. You don't go to the court of appeal, neither to the Argentine Ice, nor anywhere else, nor to lift the decision of the Ice Arena, etc. So we're telling you that you need to think like entrepreneurial, technocratic minds. You think politically, only politically. And that's weird. Of course, I'll say that here half the people, and more than half the people, you're lawyers and you're comfortable with this story. You're making yourself You're taking the paradoxes, too. It's not bad, it's work. But as long as the client goes up and up and down, he'll pay a little more. Listen a little. We should be consistent with the real facts, not what we want, but what really happens. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I told you if we copy the American model, we'll have one-third of the guys. It's over and out. It's not that hard. Let us find a formula in the Greek Parliament, let the three hundred Members agree, to do so. You'll never do it, because you want the D.A.'s upstairs and the lawyers underneath to get the paradoxes, get the money. That's the reality. And from us you will only hear the reality, not what we believe, but what is happening exactly. The 2008 Directive is therefore limited to cross-border disputes only. It is limited there, Minister. Obligation in all countries is a European originality. There is no obligation, ladies and gentlemen. Where did you see it? There is no European country in the world. And I will give examples. I will not say about the unconstitutionality decided recently by the Marios Ice in 2018, and now, in 2019, that the government changed its opinion that it is constitutional. Now listen to this: The citizen understands that a year ago on the same subject, the Marios Ice says that there is unconstitutionality and a year after the government changes and brings the same thing, he says it is constitutional. So how can the citizen trust any decisions, namely that the executive or legislative authority in question does not intervene to tell him the judge 'decided anyway'? So before you said more, and now you're saying more. Let's go to the citizens' overheads: lawyer's expenses, Article 5, Ombudsman's remuneration, Article 18, notifications and additional fees in the event of absence, Article 7, charge per hour, validation of a report for implementation, Article 8. If that is not the money that the client pays - that is, the citizen, who has made him a client - for that very nice thing you have done as the Neo Democrat, it is a distorted wording and some lawyers call it. Clear things, so we don't lie in here. And your logic is syndicate. Unfortunately, it's syndicating your logic to make laws for lawyers to make money, forgetting the citizen may not have the money. So why 'compulsory'? Let's actually go, article 5: No lawyers in loans. The presentation of a lawyer in consumer disputes and loans is not compulsory. Why? You tell me. What does that mean? That we serve the banks at the same time so we don't have a lawyer there? Look at it a little better, it's superficial. We all remember the secret terms signed by the borrowers - here's what I'm saying to you - secret terms, short letters and contracts. Everyone signed. They did not know what consumers signed. They signed up, take the loan, go away. So here, I repeat, if we really want to protect the citizen, we need to find ways of universally protecting him from any immunity from bankers or the state. Article 6(2): Exemption of the public. It says that the disputes with public authorities, OTAs, legal entities governed by public law are excluded. Why? Here you are violating the principle of equality. Why? Why do you exclude it? Aren't we in breach of the principle of equality? I'm not a lawman, but I'm telling you all about it. I'm probably wrong. Because, the problem with Greek legislation, Mr. Kamine, do you know what it is? It's that one of the constitutionalists says something else, the other says something else. One lawyer says otherwise, the other one says otherwise, depending on where not his ideology goes but his pocket goes. Let's actually go to Article 7: is there a risk of unconstitutionality? I'm asking. Is there? I'm asking you! To impose a penalty on anyone who doesn't come? I'm asking you. It's things that don't stand. From 120-300 euros to the old law, it went 100-500 euros. I don't understand. Why didn't you examine what the Marble ice said for free? Why can't it be free, Mr. Couvela? Does the citizen have any money? Do you think the Greek has money? There's no money in Greek. Free you have to give this. You'll have mediation for free. Free. I am telling you this, if you want to make social policy, to a people who have been bankrupt, it will be free of charge. Free! Free! If you want to help the citizen. Article 10: Central Mediation Committee. This is where I don't understand. Will some of our people go to the Central Mediation Commission? So, do we want to set people up? Oh, no. Okay. We'll see about that, too. Don't see any Mr. Father again from Carditsa or any Mr. Lovedakis, who are at ease, you know, or some hospital governors again. Mr. Father is kind, kind, and a good teacher. I've learned, I've been informed, an excellent gentleman, but he's politically naive. He told the truth on the channel, and he came out of the nymph. That's the reality. The man told the truth. He made a deal with the Prime Minister, he asked him for this, he took it, and once the poor guy said that, because he is politically naive and a good man, he ran away. That's the truth. Article 12: qualifications of ombudsmen. Occupation of any OIE degree and follow-up of an eighty-hour seminar. So I'm going, who's studied journalism and I'm a graduate, if you like, in communication, and I'm going to be an ombudsman for eighty hours. What are you talking about? Are you canceling the lawyers? So, any geopath can be an intermediary? If he has a degree in PI, anyone, for example the psychologist, the sociologist, who has a degree in political science will become a legal, mediator. They're names baptisms. That's right, that's what you say, that's how you do. What, then, applies to other countries for mediation? So you don't lie or half the truth in here. In Belgium: on voluntary basis in civil law, including family differences - there is no obligation - commercial law and labour law. In Luxembourg, there is provision for judicial mediation to be fully voluntary. In Spain: compulsory labour, optional in urban, free of charge when proposed by the court. In Cyprus: compulsory at cross-border, for other optional only by consensus of parties. In Denmark: cases before a regional court, a private court or a court, a maritime and commercial court. Optional, I'm telling you. Why do you have to? Belgium, Germany, I can tell you a lot. So why are you saying that it is a Community directive, a norm, it must be implemented, but each country applies it differently, and you must? Why? Tell me why. If you were to say "mandatory, moneyless" to understand it. In other words, you must go to the ombudsman, but not pay a single euro. You obligate him, but he will go to pay the EUR 200-300, and that means, for me at least, a lack of social sensitivity. It's over and out. The amendment: Minister, you are a serious man. I've known you for years, we've known each other for years. You're a very serious man. But this with amendments to bring them in and meddle in different things, I am disturbed. Bring five different amendments. We want to vote on this with the nappies. We need to increase the number of sevens. Why do you put NGOs in me? In one amendment, we want to vote on that. But within a NGO article, there's the one with the unaccompanied kid, etc. You do it five in one, and so you deprive me of me for wanting to vote for the abortions, and you bring me in a position not to be able to vote because you have a report on NGOs. You deprive me of that right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u261	You need to take a good look at this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u262	I would like to see it, but to see it - I repeat - otherwise, because it is impossible to bring any amendments at the last minute. I've said it a thousand times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u263	We've already announced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u264	Listen, is there a NGO in it, yes or no? Is the word NGO mentioned? I ideologically oppose non-governmental organisations. You are putting it in an amendment, however, which is in it and has it in it. That's what I'm telling you. You don't understand. I don't want to see any NGOs. I don't want to see any NGOs, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u265	There's no such thing as a...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u266	I wish he didn't. I wish I was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u267	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u268	Or the favor thing. I'll tell you who gives favors to who: In 2018 the Minister of Constantine in a drug convict, to be appointed to PPC. 2019 smuggler, to renew taxi license, unfortunately on your service. In 2013, the Minister of Justice Athanasios, thanks to a drug dealer. Is it possible to give poachers and drug dealers favors? Don't look at the Minister, it's true. If you want, I'll give it to you. It was given thanks to a drug dealer. These are incredible things. Thanks to a drug dealer! Do you understand that? So, with the favors, you find a way, Minister, not to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u269	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u270	You can answer me, it's not on personal grounds, it's a general problem. I told you about Contonis, about Athanasios. Other ministers did this too. "Happy series" to people who had to never get out of prison again, because we have young children up there, twelve years old, 15 years old, who are our children and can be taken to drugs. And the Minister's giving the drug dealer a favor to go out and sell drugs again. That's not happening. Is that a rule of law? And I know your sensitivity. Especially on your face. I know how sensitive you are. Let's go to the next one. Today I learned that Mr Philippos Granty came to the Senate, the UN High Commissioner for Illegal Immigrants. All right, everybody applauded him. I don't know if you know Mr. Granty's origin. It's Italian. If you look at the legislation, the ban on the entry of illegal immigrants into Italy, you will understand that you should all mugging him together, because others apply to his country and others to Greece. He asks Greece to become a storeroom for souls, to replace the population, but in Italy legislation is much more stringent than Greece. You can't imagine how much. So he came to give us lessons of poaching, the Italian in whose country asylum is forbidden. Everybody's going to Lampedusa. Because I've been to Labedusa, Minister, Lesvos is a villa, it's a five-star hotel in front of Lambedusa. Those who've gone Lampedusa know what it means. I'm saying this because they're making suggestions and underneath Parliament's Members were applauding, instead of saying, "Come here, dude, are you not Italian? What is the case in Italy, to apply the right things to Greece as well." Why don't you do that? Why does it have to save us and well to be caught within the Greek Parliament, to be supported? So he said that Lesvos is inhumane, etc. Has the guy gone to Lampedusa? This Italian, Grantie, has gone to Lampedusa, what's his name? She hasn't gone because if she had gone, she would have seen that Lesvos is - I repeat - a five-star hotel in relation to Lambedusa. In order to clarify relations a little, there is a Greek voice to answer them. Italian's here to teach us lessons in here! Let's go to the next one. Speech. And I say this because you are fearful of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Minister, with Mr Gabrielides who represents here, he says, the High Commissioner. Yesterday Israel deported the director of the Human Rights Watch to Israel because they thought it was working against the national interest. Everyone protested. Listen to the Israeli Foreign Minister's answer: 'We have the right to decide who will enter our territory'. This is the answer of Israel's Foreign Minister, who is a nation of siblings, of you and of us, and does not allow anyone to enter and come out whatever it wants. If you want to become a serious state, copy legislation strictly. Either Israel or Denmark or any serious country, because we operate unharmedly. And what I'm showing you here, I'm going to testify for the Minutes. Do you know what that is, Minister? It is Turkey's visa for three to six months. With 100 euros, Congolese can go on a trip to Istanbul, will give another 80 euros, and will have six months of visas to plan to come to Greece. Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done anything about this? They're given six months' visa. Congolese, Moroccans, Algerians. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Look it up, get the ministry to look for it, so many employees are there. Look for these, too. Make a move, a protest. Tell them: "What's up, guys?" Can Congolese come with a visa for six months to Istanbul with a direct flight "TURKISH AIRLINES"? Why? Where is our state finally intervening? I see Mr. Treasury who went to Albania, and did well, but did he do something about it? Did he go to see Katsifa's mother? She went for a walk home to tell her, "What happened to your son?" Tell her about the wronged lad? The Albanians, even now, do not give us the opinion of the prosecutor and hide it from us. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm telling you things the Greek people say. I'm going to say something about what a lot of people do and was denounced by a hotelier, if I'm not mistaken, in Thessaly. Are you blackmailing through taxi, as government, not you, hoteliers who owe tax money to host poachers? Complainted on the camera the other day, Minister. He went out to the hotel and denounced it. He said he was blackmailing him because he owes the tax office that IRS would shut his hotel down if he didn't give it. He told the camera. Let me show you the video, will I? Mr. Papadakis was transmitted to the ANT1. I'm telling you when, so you don't think I'm saying what I want. So I'm telling you all this, and I'm asking you a question: they're giving them money for a year, 550 euros a month, and there are several thousand people, they're Afghans, Pakistanis - I don't know where all of them have come from. I ask one question: in a year when there will be no money to give them, and these people will not be able to survive, where will they go, ladies and gentlemen? You tell me. They're given a year of mandatory rents and money. If this time is over, where are these people going? Will they give them more money? Will the Greeks be wrong again, or will they go out to the streets because they are hungry and crime will increase, why will they break into houses? Do you take responsibility, as a New Democracy, for this fact? So do you assume that there will be social peace? You can't handle it. And you know why? Because you are "Greeks". You're afraid to support the Greek. And let me tell you this, and I will close here, when New Democracy sends an airplane of hundreds of Afghans to Afghanistan to return them, and Afghanistan returns them, it means two things: Or, first, consultation with the Embassy was done with meanings or, second and most importantly, it is just that the Afghans are working on you and they consider you to be unharmed government and consider Greece to be an unharmed country. This is not the case in the serious countries. Decide, act, because I'm afraid you will stay with Mrs. Lovedakis, Mr. Father, and with ten - fifteen voters in the next election. I told you, illegal immigration will be the tombstone of the New Democracy, not because you cannot simply, but above all because you do not want to give solutions. Close borders, stop the allowances, close the NGOs and love, hug the Greek. He voted for you and no one else. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u271	Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, let me make two announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 2nd Kallithea High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the MP, Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad, from 1 December 2019 to 8 December 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u272	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we welcome to the plenary of the Greek Parliament the introduction of a draft law on an extremely important alternative procedure for resolving disputes, mediation. Let us not forget, after all, that the mediation process, a leading real reform for the area of Greek justice, was essentially introduced for the first time by Law 3898/2010 by the then government of PASOK. Intermediation at international level is an acceptable, effective, rapid and qualitative process. It is a process aimed at a sustainable and beneficial mutual settlement of private disputes. And if something makes it so important for the Greek legal system, it ends up with a process of consensus and understanding between the two parties, the cultivation - if you wish - of a new social model. It does not replace justice, it does not cancel justice, it does not cancel justice, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary, it complements it, it improves it by making the number one key to the decommissioning of the courts, so for the speedier and better administration of justice, which is the number one problem, the burden of the billboards on Greek justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we have mentioned this in all the committees and, in principle, we are repeating it today. Mediation is a tool, an institution which is aimed at every citizen and which ensures even better quality terms, effectively equips the citizen, with an institutional capacity for consensus and mutually acceptable agreement to be able to find a solution to his interests. Unfortunately, however, if we want to be honest here, in the House of Parliament of the Greeks, we must admit that this institution and its implementation have since been introduced and, for virtually ten years, it has been cancerous. The world was either not aware of the possibility that it had as an alternative method of resolving its disputes, or understood it, and even understood it, if you wish, the way of mediation as a method of fearfulness, as a method of dubious quality with the compulsory presence of the lawyer, so double costs, dubious procedure. The reason why PASOK's government at the time did not enjoy Haris Kastanidis was, in fact, one, that it was not able to inform civil society and go as far as it was necessary for the citizens to have this information and thus become a citizen's conscience, but also, equally important, ladies and gentlemen, to be aware in the legal world. Therefore, Minister, from this Step forward, we as a Change Movement point out and emphasise the need for even more intense publicity and promotion of the mediation process by the state. There will need to be a storm of information and information, there will have to be an integrated communication campaign to inform the citizens of the advantages that this institution has and which it is for the benefit of, so that the Greek citizen can understand the effectiveness that the state, society and the institutions, the social partners, the legal world, chambers, scientific bodies, the partners, such as the FIFG and many others may have. I would particularly like to highlight and focus on the role of the lawyer throughout this process, who is becoming absolutely central to the citizens' representation. It is compulsory - and we stress this clearly - that the lawyer is present from the first compulsory information session and that he follows the citizen up to the end of mediation. And of course it is the choice of the parties to choose who will have a lawyer throughout this procedure or to judge the lawyer who will have recourse to justice. This institution gives goodwill to the law-enforcement body and is win-win-win, win for citizens, win for the legal world, win for the faster and better administration of justice. And that's why we in the Change Movement are in favour of this institution. And unfortunately, to say things with their name, the truth is that with the previous legislative framework, with No 4512/2018, all this has been blurred, ladies and gentlemen. And it enthusiastically enthusiastically enthusiastized, because, with the mandatory, then, the institution of mediation in specific procedures, on the one hand, was judged unconstitutional by the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay of Argos in 34/2018, on the other hand, the whole legal world went against that regulation. Of course I must point out and explain that unconstitutionalism has also been judged because of high costs, which is not the case with the current regulation. That is why we had denounced the attempt to implement this in the wrong way of the mediation institution and we had voted against that initiative. It must therefore be understood that reforms to enable them to pass through and implement must, in fact, have the agreement and the involvement of the legal world actors in this case, and that is why I insist so much on the need for even better information for the legal world itself for this institution. Minister, firstly we welcomed the fact that our proposals have been heard, you have listened to them to a very large degree, first and foremost, as regards the new content and tasks of the compulsory stage. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about compulsory mediation, but about a compulsory first, starting point. It must be made clear, it is not clear, Minister, yet. Required information stage of both parties for this possibility, which we have. We welcome the fact that we have heard about the introduction of a system of circular delegations, Rotation, of cases to the ombudsmen from the Central Commission for Mediation in order to ensure even more transparency and objectivity of the procedure. And of course it is important that you then adopted our own proposal to make the representation of lawyers compulsory at every stage of the procedure compulsory. The legal representative shall ensure that his mandate for the operation and the benefits of the institution is informed and shall guarantee his effective participation in the procedure. That is why, Minister, we do not understand why you have not dared to make any necessary changes, which we have pointed out to you and we expect to hear whether you have any other amendments to present to us, first of all, on Article 10, on improving the functioning of the Central Mediation Committee, even though we have pointed out that the presence of judges is incompatible with the nature of mediation as an extrajudicial mechanism, while we have proposed that a judge should be present in the Committee of Inquiry on the validity of the entire procedure. Why didn't you hear that? For Article 20, we do not understand, it is unclear, you have not explained it to us sufficiently, nor to the committees why the associations of intermediaries need to be institutionalised. We do not think it is necessary to recognise specific types of mediators, as imported. We do not understand why, what is the ratio of introducing this institution, which in the end, to say things by their name, leads to a professionalisation of this institution? The wording of Article 22(1)(c) also appears to be problematic. What do I mean? Because that sounded quite legal. When a provision is introduced for a natural or legal person, which can act as a training body for ombudsmen without any other condition, you understand that this is incomplete, especially - and I insist - as far as natural persons are concerned. It may create problems, we have pointed it out to you in the committee debate, we invite you to see it again and to correct it. As we have also pointed out and stressed that there must be much stricter criteria for quality assurance for legal persons, who draw up ombudsmen. There is no legal person with a capital of a euro and with three rooms of thirty square meters there is a quality training body for ombudsmen. We invite you to correct it and change it. We also said first of all that it is right and necessary - and we welcomed this initiative - to have an independent legal arrangement for mediation. Why did we say that? But it was completely and legally and semantically, Mr Minister, a mistake so top institution, such as the mediation institution, to be just a chapter in a memorandum law, as the previous government has brought about. That's why we asked you to bring in a separate law. We in particular told you the amending arrangements to put them into the original law, the one who introduced mediation, Law 3898/2010. You didn't hear it. You have heard half our proposal. Even so, we welcome this, even if this is how you are trying to integrate a top reform of the PASOK. But you have moved on - and this resounds your message in this way - to tabling an amendment that, as you said, arranges for the bad texts of the Ministry of Justice. Minister, you understand that here is contradictory. Is that what you meant in understanding? Is that just the Ministry's positive look at all - I think - very important proposals of counter-population, which have been heard in committee? To bring regular amendments because the three General Secretariats, which existed at the Ministry, have been abolished? And we heard you talk to us about the recasting of the Harita Council, about the "Home of the Child", about the retained rights, and about the National School of Judges. We'll talk in our dentistry about this. We do not see, of course, all these changes are important and necessary. However - and here is our criticism - you could have safeguarded the self-interest of this bill and brought in a separate piece of legislation on the bad texts of your ministry. On the contrary, you chose the method, spray, wipe and change everything until Christmas. And finally, we have asked you again to change the explanatory statement. There has already been incorporation of the directive since 2011. I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, we recognise your positive intentions with this bill, but you realise that you are actually undermining the validity of our proposals when you refuse to make changes with the argument that we are obliged to follow European legislation. The Change Movement remains committed to the national priority for the radical reform of justice. In this context, the design and implementation of a functioning mediation system is our constant targeting. Conservation of the status of the institution and its effective implementation in order to carry out and become an economic and impartial process requires regulation, supervision, introduction of strict objective criteria for the functioning of the institution and training bodies. It requires, in particular, information to the citizens, as well as to embrace the whole of the legal world. So all of this needs to be seen with a scientific sober, documented, serious way of making the final changes to the errors and omissions that we have pointed out to you. We're focusing on this. We are positive about the principle of this very serious institution, and we insist on the need to listen to the amendments and changes to the articles that we reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u274	We will give the floor to the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Maria Konnakkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Rather, favorite habit has become New Democracy's proposed bills to complete the work that SYRIZA did not have to complete. Often, the similarity reaches such a degree that both of them are rightly quarreled for the paternity of the bill. In this case, in fact, there is also a third contender, who is probably more passionately recognizing it as his own 'child'. It is also worth changing the paternity of mediation, since it was the PASOK that initially introduced the law of 2010 to a more limited extent, of course, so that SYRIZA and Law 4512/2018 would be able to extend its application, making it a mandatory stage before appealing to the court. The New Democracy, of course, then, as an opposition, came out in the "keramides" and through its representatives in the plenary session of the legal associations, substantially haggling the extent of the compulsoryity, which it is today reintroducing, presenting as a necessary modernization of the system of administration of justice. You are vindicating all the paternity of the law, which brings about the greatest privatization ever made in the field of justice. The only thing, however, is that this is a genuine child of the European Union, which is why you all show so much heat in its prosperity. Of course, you also include this change in the context of a series of reactionary reforms, which have been promoted in the last few years in justice. For example, changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, by limiting witness evidence, by looking at the privileged fulfilment of labour requirements and others, the recent changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the reactionary arrangements of the criminal order, conciliation, etc., as well as the increasing costs of bringing workers to justice, by introducing all kinds of misconduct and burdens. These reforms are intended to ensure cheap and efficient legal services in the capital, quickly and in the interest of handling its affairs. They aim, at the same time, to save resources from the state, even if this is at the expense of the rights - and the procedural rights - of the workers and the people's classes involved or forced to resort to justice. Once again, take advantage of the pretext of dismantling the courts from a large number of cases and speeding up the administration of justice, problems which are, of course, existing and afflicted and which are financially burdened by the workers. However, these could be resolved by the recruitment of judges and officials and the strengthening of the logistics infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u276	Please, just quiet down. At least respect the speaker. We're in the process of discussing a bill. Please calm down. As you know, the roll-call vote will take place shortly. But be quiet. Mrs. Konnakka, you can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u277	Thank you. In fact, the objective and mediation is to achieve a stable requirement of capital, as has been clearly expressed by the Association of Greek Industrialists, the Association of Insurance Companies, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Athens, the Hellenic Association of Banks and other such institutions, which together with large lawyers and other social partners, such as GSEE, have speeded up building the Agency for the Promotion of Alternative Methods for Dispute Settlement. The Government of New Democrat Republic, as the previous ones have done, is absolutely disgraceful of these requirements of capital, which, among other things, open up new areas of profitability in the field of the education and certification of ombudsmen. The government is, of course, deaf to the needs of the people's strata, to which it creates additional obstacles to access to justice, evicting the already superfluous cost, which, for a large proportion of the workers, is already banned. After all, the resistance to mediation, depending on his pocket, is given. The regulation of the minimum remuneration of the ombudsman by 80 euros per annum can bring the financially weaker person to a compromise, for example, against banks, employers and insurance companies, since it will not, of course, prolong mediation or, in the event of failure, be able to support the extra cost of his appeal to the court. How can parties be protected against any abuse of the Ombudsman? Can the truth not, in order to increase his remuneration, push mediation into unnecessary prolongation, since it is paid time rather than according to the success of it? The compulsory application of the institution is, moreover, subject to the unprecedented threat of extermination of financial threats in the event of absence from the compulsory initial session, which even reaches EUR 100 to EUR 500. Of course, the optionality, supposedly, of mediation in all civil and commercial matters, "gos walk" with the possibility that you give for mediation clauses. Do you really know many who can demand the removal of the standardised clauses from banking, insurance, or even from the working contracts themselves? Is there really respect for the equal will of the parties in an unequal and profitable society? Is the employer and the employee, the bank and the bank debtor equal? Is the insurance company and the patient insured, the husband who practices domestic violence, and the psychologically injured husband who seeks custody of his children? The powerful place has always the power and can impose its right. The draft mediation law confirms that changes in justice do not have a unique dimension, but are related to wider objectives and economic developments, of course. With the possibility of establishing associations of certified intermediaries for the provision of brokering services, the way to the creation of companies for the creation of outlaws, which will employ intermediaries as employees with the minimum wage and a businessman, of course, who will oversee and collect profits from work, is wide open. It also recommends an indirect aspect of the liberalisation of legal services in the spirit of the Bolkestein Directive, which aims to create in the field of legal services, capital and professional companies, which will bring together lawyers, notaries, tax agents and now also ombudsmen. Within a package of 'all's good's for capital - as the needs of business groups and fast-track procedures, of course, in the context of a competitive, internal and internationalised market, of course. It is clear, therefore, that the aim of the bill is to channel cheap labour to these companies from a huge mass of graduates, since they can obtain, not only legal lawyers, but any graduates of higher education. The synonymous illusion of a share of lawyers is thus averted, that a new legal material will be created. Since the domination of mediation, only worsening the employment situation of wage and self-employed lawyers, small and medium-sized strata, can arise. It adds, of course, a new opportunity to hunt the qualifications of Lifelong Learning for the graduates of EHS, away and completely irrelevant, many times, from the very subject of their studies, which will be invited to pay for once again. So here is how a new field of business opens up, since it is now possible to set up not only legal entities under private law, set up by lawyers and chambers, Lifelong Learning Centres, OAED, etc., but also by any legal or natural person. It is serious about the problems created by the regulations of the draft law on the transparency of the procedure and the possibility of the ombudsman for impartiality. In what way, will you truly check whether the Ombudsman is economically or otherwise linked to any of the parties, when it can, in the event of the parties' non-agreement, be designated by the Central Mediation Committee? Even this employment of ombudsmen with a relationship of dependent labour in the various companies in the area is annoyed and any of their ability to perform their duties unaffected by customer or other relationships, which it is impossible for someone to know, since they are lost within business secrets, indirect relationships and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u278	I'm sorry, Mrs. Konnakka. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Is that so important that you want to discuss this right now? You haven't talked about it all this time? I am sorry to interrupt, but also to take the liberty of addressing the House in this way. Respect the speaker a little. She's a rapporteur. A bill is being discussed. It is indifferent to you or not, I don't know, but respect the speaker. After Mrs Konnakka, she will vote on a roll-call vote. Hey, hold on a little bit. Come on, Mrs. Konnakka, keep going. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. The bill for an opposition fight is not appropriate, so the interest of the rest of the parties is reduced. But it has very serious provisions. Intermediation and the arrangements introduced by this draft law do not even respect the pretexts of impartiality, even if the Ombudsman is inspected for disciplinary offences, including non-compliance with the principle of non-discrimination, or even if a criminal offence by him, relating to mediation itself, such as blackmail, fraud, bribery, this will not affect the validity of the successful outcome of mediation and the agreement that has already been drawn up. Thus, a very dangerous road is opened, when the whole process of mediation is completely opaque, since it is not public or practical, and the mediator can meet and communicate separately with each of the parties, of course affecting it at the appropriate level. For the strongest part, of course, this is another great gift, since it can put pressure on threats and intimidation under the table to force the weakest to accept the resolution of the dispute, which it proposes. When, even today, they are not infrequent on the phenomena where huge economic interests find a way out of influence in institutions of justice, with much higher guarantees of impartiality, it can only cause concern to hand over such a sensitive sector to private interests. Mediation, like other recent changes in justice, does not concern the effectiveness of justice in a neutral, supposedly neutral way. They have deep class content. They express the need to match the justice system with the modern needs of capital for safe and profitable investments, without bureaucratic or other delays. The extension and strengthening of the institution of mediation is against the labour and popular strata which are forced to resort to justice, escalating the costs involved. At the same time, there is a huge risk of far-reaching and painful agreements, under pressure from mediation. Claiming against the reactionary changes, in particular that of the institution, is not, of course, equivalent to defending the current situation, but is an integral part of the fight against the overall anti-population policy. We shall, of course, deal with the second part of our amendment, which was introduced by the Minister. However, there are serious questions which have come in a sudden way, and this is the case with the abolition of the seats of this year and their replacement by eighty-six seats of Presidents. There is a huge reaction from the judiciary itself and it gives rise to questions about who this arrangement really comes to serve. We will, of course, place ourselves fully in our dentistry. We also hope from your position, Minister, that you will be able to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 241a]] [[To enter page 242a]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st PESAL Volos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice and we are entering the vote on the principle of Articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "liberation of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 3, 4, 9, 16, 17, 24, 42 and 44 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u281	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Famelos Socrates. Here you go. Mrs Agathopoulos Irene. Here. Mr. Arachovitis Stavros. Here you go. Mr. Aylonite Alexander - Christos. Here you go. Mr. Vitsas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. Here. Mr. Drasakis John. Here you go. O O O O Dragon Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Zachariadis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Red Vassiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Notopoulou Catherine. Here. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. Here. Mrs. Papanatziou Catherine. Here. Mr. Papa Nikolaos. Here you go. Mrs. Perka Theophist. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by members of the SYRIZA. Also, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle, as well as on Articles 3 and 24 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u282	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Konnakka Maria. Here. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Papanastassis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Stoltides Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to add the two votes to one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u283	The House agrees. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. At this point there will be a roll-call vote on the principle and Articles 3, 4, 9, 16, 17, 24, 42 and 44 of the Ministry of Environment and Energy bill: ‘Security of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES and other provisions’. I would point out that the vote includes the beginning and eight articles. Each time on the screen is shown up to four articles to be voted and to vote and the rest you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Of course, you should make sure that you have voted on all nine areas included in the vote. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you are addressing the Bureau, in order to obtain the corresponding assistance. We would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber after the roll-call vote was completed, to vote for the other articles, the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u285	I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr Kyranakis Konstantinou, Mr Karagunis Konstantinou, Mr Samaras Antoniou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'NAI'. Also, there have been letters from colleagues from Mr. Georgios Katrugalou, Mr. Thraniotis Emmanuel, Mr. Gregoriadis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'OH'. And we also have letters from colleagues Christos Goka, George Francis, Ahmet Ilhan, Baran Burhan and George Papandreou, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote according to the position of their party. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u287	Also, Mrs Panayota Poulos, because of a problem in the electronic voting process, asked for her vote to be registered, which was tabled in writing. [[The relevant documents shall be entered in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TO TAKE PAGE 272 AND 273
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u288	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 284 Members voted. In the light of the foregoing, the Court In addition, 153 Members voted in favour. In other words, 131 Members voted against. 'Paris' was voted by no MEP. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Liberation of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Article 3: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 131 Members. 'Paris', voted by no MEP. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 116 Members. Parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 9: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 168 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 116 Members. 'Paris', voted by no MEP. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 16, as amended: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 131 Members. 'Paris', voted by no MEP. Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 17: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 121 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 10 MPs. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 24, as amended: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 131 Members. 'Paris', voted by no MEP. Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 42, as amended: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, 121 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 10 MPs. Article 42 was therefore accepted as amended by a majority. Article 44: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 131 Members. 'Paris', voted by no MEP. Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u290	We are entering the vote of the rest of the articles, the nominee article and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes forty-eight articles, three amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-nine students and students and three teachers, from the 1st Gymnasium of Aegina. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u292	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u293	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Liberation of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u295	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: 'Measure in civil and commercial matters - Further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 and other provisions'. We continue with the recommendations of the special speakers. The remaining ones are from the Greek Solution, Mr.Mylonakis Antonios and from Mera25, Mrs. Fotini Bakada, to complete the course of the speeches of the special speakers and rapporteurs. We therefore invite Mr. Mylonakis, a special speaker from the Greek Solution to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, mediation or alternative method of resolving disputes, a bill in which we are again called upon to incorporate a European Union directive, which is essentially about cross-border mediation, and the rest are articles that the government is trying to implement this bill which was launched in 2010 to date by the Greek people. Before I begin, however, you will also allow me to say that yesterday - it has not been heard at all today - one of the most fighting pilots of our Air Force, the commander of 114 Battle Wing, Minister, has resigned. And we all need to be concerned in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, Yannis Lord, the Colonel was not a random officer. Those who have passed through Air Force and those who have piloted the Greek airspace know that Yiannis Lord was one of those who had thousands of hours of flight, instructor, printer, evaluator, a knowledgeer of the Miraz as much as anyone else. What is bothering us and me personally is the information I get that he was deported for two reasons. Now, of course, this in the letter sent to the Minister of Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, must be ratified or told by Mr Panayotopoulos whether or not it is so. Why did Yannis of the Lord resign? Information is said to have resigned for two reasons: The first reason is spare parts and all the problems that we are discussing about everything, about the availability of aircraft and helicopters due to a problem of economics. The second reason is that his unit is more concerned with illegal immigration, such as the entire Greek Army, than with the main occupation. I want to think that's not the case. It's sad to leave Colonels, like the one who'd soon become a Brigadier General. There was no reason to leave. He was almost two years commander of 114, 331,332, the strongest degrees of aircraft Miraz and Miraz 5. So we need to see what is happening in the area of the Armed Forces. Let's go now to today's subject. Ladies and gentlemen, we also told the committees that a new profession was born, a new profession that began in 2010. In order not to deceive ourselves, PASOK was the "Dad" of this draft law. In 2018 with Law 4512 it was updated by "Mama" - SYRIZA - of course the new New Democracy Government is coming to update the European directive, incorporating it. In fact, Minister, he is talking to us about cross-border mediation, he says nothing else, and what makes it seem is that there is still a need. Where there's no reason for it, a rod is piercing. That's what's happening now. That's what we have to say, that's the truth. In other words, the Greek citizen has taken a bill in his hands since 2010, which has failed miserably. That's the truth, that's the mentality. The Greek people are not the German people, although in most of the Länder there is no mandatory. The Greek people want their natural judge. He wants to go to trial...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u297	Another culture, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u298	Other culture. What can we do, Minister? But should I tell you something? The culture of the Greek people must change it, but by willingly putting a parameter. And you know, where mediation took place voluntarily - you know it very well - it had 64% success. Where it became compulsory, it failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u299	Did Italy fail? It's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u300	No, here in Greece. In 2018, SYRIZA comes with a law and says what? The Greek people don't do what we ask him? We're gonna fight him. What's the grinding? We'll make it compulsory for him. New Democracy is now coming to the same bill, little changes in the articles, incorporates the European Union directive and at the same time makes mediation compulsory in the first stage. At first stage, a presiding session. What does that mean? Whatever the opponent doesn't want, he'll have to go to his ombudsman. And who's the ombudsman? A student who received a degree in Fine Arts. A painter. Are you laughing? Isn't that the way things are? He's not a teacher, is he not a TECHA teacher, a trainer? Can a pilot become a pilot? Maybe. So everyone becomes an ombudsman. What will this Ombudsman do? The therapist? We've been through this. We've asked for it. At least if he was a lawyer, if he had studied law, since he wanted eighty hours to learn five things, Commercial Law, Civil Law, Family Law and Examinations, as the other with a hundred and fifty words to write a report and so on, how is he doing within eighty hours to become an intermediary? And don't tell me now, Minister, that this profession will take 50 euros to make mediation! From information we have and you can cross it, those who went to the mediation, says the Ombudsman - because we have now entered companies, we have natural persons, we have profitable companies - when they ask him how much he wants, "I want a thousand euros, from 500 euros". Yes, sir. But there's not one poor guy. So we come and punish him. In the articles we will analyse them. But that is the reasoning. I, too, ask, Minister, why not all of us come together to abolish the requirement. Why should we, where there is no reason to squeeze bars on the Greek people? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u301	We did it in 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u302	Did you do it in 2010? You didn't do anything in 2010. In 2010, PASOK did so and you came to beat the Greek people, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And the New Democracy comes to continue to be beaten to the Greek people and says to him "You will go to court, but before, before, Greek citizen, you go to court, I will take you to the ombudsman". And what will the Ombudsman do at the first session, ladies and gentlemen? Nothing. It will simply inform the Ombudsman that this passage can proceed with the alternative method of resolving the dispute and, in addition to the money it will give the Ombudsman - EUR 500, EUR 1,500, EUR 2000, EUR 2000, what he wants, depending on the amounts that come into conflict and the subject - he must also have the lawyer with him. How much does the lawyer want? A thousand and the lawyer. That goes too. Why? In order to be informed simply if this conflict can be done in this way. If it is different and you, the most important lawyers who are in here, can explain to the Greek citizen this obligation, tell us. Otherwise, what's the point? That, gentlemen, we drive you do not want in this case. I told you again, Minister, we all come together to agree on the need to leave. It's a sin for the Greek citizen. The Greek people are not such a type. It is not the type 'I don't go, I don't do, I don't show'. He'll figure it out on his own and willingly go and see that it's going better. Civil trade, family law cases serious. Not a pacifist, so quite a large amount. I do not know now whether it is 250 000, 300 000, 500 000 or other sums which are slightly smaller or larger. And a strange thing. It is not compulsory for the advocate of one of the two parties to be present when there is a consumer asset, namely a credit card, a loan, bank products essentially. Why? Because that's where the bank lawyer or the bank lawyers come in and "the lights are changing to him". They tell him one, they tell him the other, he doesn't necessarily have the lawyer next to him, because he doesn't have any money - we see what's going on. I think that this procedure for the Ombudsman - we have said it at the very beginning - is in the wrong direction. And it's not just for you, Mr. Minister of the New Democracy, SYRIZA had it. That's where the evil started, but I think the Greek people punished them for these clever things they did. They thought they'd play with the Greek citizen. Don't play with the Greek citizen. Don't play! A new profession, that is, with new bureaucratic structures, and, as we have said, costs the parties. The questions now being raised are enough. However, the biggest is because the institution failed. Anyone who comes to explain this because the institution failed finds a solution. The institution failed because the Greek citizen wants - that's what he's learned - his natural judge. You will tell me 'but the courts have been loaded'. Both the Single Primary Courts and the Multiple and Appeals Courts are loaded. The judges can't do this anymore. Okay. Do we have to have judges, have new judges? Do we need to harmonize our judicial system with computers, with every electronic means, which can do the work of the other, with the secretaries, etc.Huh? See that, too. Who will be the ombudsmen? What kind of studies do they have? What kind of training? Now we're going to one - one in the articles. As far as Article 6 is concerned, we said that we were vertically opposed. Article 6 is compulsory. The obligation must be abolished, whether you all want to understand it or not. The Greek people are listening. You can't oblige anyone to go to give the world the money, because it's compulsory to go to a pre-conference. We said the lawyer's reward is free, it's not 50 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u303	She's always free.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u304	Nor is the ombudsman 50 euros. She's free and the ombudsman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u305	Always everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u306	Uh, okay, but that's why I'm saying she's free.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u307	And how many rewards they'll get.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u308	But why can't it be done for free? Can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u309	Many times we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u310	Yeah, well, you do. When you do, tell me, too, to go and do it for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u311	Will lawyers be free to do so?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u312	Come on, Mr. Pleari. The lawyers have eaten us here. We don't dare go to court. If you go to court, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u313	That's why we're telling you to go to mediation and not to justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u314	Please don't interrupt. Come on, Mr. Mylonakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u315	Free mediation can take place? That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u316	On the one hand, you ask trained ombudsmen and on the other hand, you want to do so for free. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u317	We have told you from the outset that intermediaries of this kind do not want to. First of all, it must not be compulsory. It's the first thing we've said since the beginning. The second is that the Ombudsman must be legal. Everyone can't be an ombudsman. This is a new profession. As far as Article 5 is concerned, in relation to consumer disputes, we have said that it is a impression that the lawyer's compulsory presence does not exist. I think the lawyer should be required here. Article 12: What are the qualifications of ombudsmen? To hold a degree in Fine Arts School. It's a good thing. To hold a TECA licence. Another good thing. To be pilots. Another good quality! These are ombudsmen now! And you want to convince us that people will trust these ombudsmen. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the amendment, Minister. We'll vote for it, of course, but why? Because some articles are serious and correct. There is, however, an article on the cooperation of the Ministry of Justice with NGOs dealing with crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u318	You're talking about the Child's House?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u319	Yeah, for Article 3. What Child Housing? I don't know what this child's name is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u320	There are voluntary organizations there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u321	Can I tell you something? Why would NGOs go in with the Justice Department? Is there any reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u322	For the supervisory capacity to be available from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u323	As there is now in the NGOs, Minister, and has become a mess, hundreds of millions of people have won, illegal immigration and illegal emigration has increased in our country, the Greek people do not know what to do. One year we're supposed to give them money to sleep, eat the immigrants, and then a year later they'll go out and say they don't have jobs, they don't have money and they have to rob them to live. That's what's going on with the NGOs. The Greek Solution, Mr Minister, tells you again - and we will see it in dentistry - that Article 6, which is compulsory, should be removed at the moment. Take out Article 6. It's going to be very good. The European Union does not oblige you to do so. Take out the obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Cardits General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Fotini Bakadima, a special buyer from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Justice entitled "Measure in civil and commercial matters, further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May". It is the attempt of the New Democracy Government to restore mediation and, indeed, compulsory mediation in a wide range of cases. It is an effort launched by PASOK in 2010 with L.3898 and SYRIZA has come to strengthen with the Contonis Law, Law No. 4512/2018. It cannot be surprising that the New Democracy, in essence, now reintroduces a piece of legislation that it itself voted against when it was in the position of Officer counter-population. What has changed since then and has made New Democracy defend the bill? What changed beyond her taking over the country's governance? For the previous law, this 2018, there were, among other things, doubts expressed by the Scientific Service of the Parliament concerning the breach of the right to effective judicial protection guaranteed by our Constitution in Article 20, but also by the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. As MERA25, we are positive towards efforts that will ease the workload of the courts, while at the same time reducing the time of resolving a dispute. But we cannot stand positive against the government’s attempt to do so. Let us look more closely at the bill and the articles against which we cannot stand critics, since they are in direct contrast with our own ideological framework and our view of justice. As we have said since the first meeting of the committee responsible, we are opposed to this bill, which effectively restores Law 4512 which was considered unconstitutional by the administrative plenary session of the Ice Bay. It was a decision that, along with all the reactions it caused in judicial and legal circles, led to the withdrawal of the order of compulsory mediation. In more detail, first of all, with Article 3, we have broadened the scope of the mediation institution so that civil or commercial cases of a national or cross-border nature can be dealt with either in the present or in the future, which the directive does not provide and is indeed an originality for our country. Thus, almost all cases will have to pass through the compulsory mediation procedure, while only the cases of the pacifist courts remain out of the process. They are therefore included in family affairs, those which fall within the competence of a single and multiple court, as well as all those for which there is written agreement between the parties provided for in the mediation clause, but with the exception of the specific institution in which a party is the public or an OTA or a legal person governed by public law, as well as those relating to consumer matters which, if applied, may have had a positive effect. Because, as the Minister told us in committee, it is not provided for in the directive. A little further, in Article 5, in particular, in the sixth paragraph, it is stated that if the dispute is finally brought to court because of the failure of mediation, neither the Ombudsman nor the lawyers can be considered as witnesses, as they cannot produce evidence from mediation. It seems here that the author of the bill forgets that there is no possibility of proving any possibility of finding an out-of-court solution, which is the main purpose of mediation, too. How will it be proved, if no evidence is provided, that every effort has been made more and that the procedure has been completed and that we must therefore be brought to the court? Article 7 reintroduces the provision of Law 4512 on the imposition of a penalty payment to any party not coming to the initial compulsory session, in a framework of between EUR 100 and 500, increasing it from its corresponding provision of Law 4512. Thus, the total cost of the procedure is increased, which is in complete contrast with the operative part of the decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Arena, which requires an inexpensive procedure. A little further, in Article 10, the central mediation committee is described. It is worth noting here that we have a reduction of thirteen Members, which is an increase of eight anticipated by the Council. In the case of the United Kingdom, it is for the national court to determine whether the conditions laid down in Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) No 3898 are fulfilled. Two of these thirteen members are required to be teachers of higher education institutions in our country, only one being required to have been a professor of law school, without any provision being made for the latter. In addition, the fourth point of the first paragraph of that Article provides as members of the CED for three representatives of the Ministry of Justice by the officials at the central office or by the officials of posted lawyers in the political office of a member of the Ministry's political leadership. The Minister has committed itself - and we are expected to see it - that the number of these members will be reduced to two of three. However, we have not yet received a reply to the question we asked about how the members of the CED are to be selected as provided for in the first four cases of this paragraph. We also expect to see the ministerial decision on the definition of the JRC and to demonstrate that the participation of the members in it will be unpaid. Although we still wonder why some of the Ministry's permanent employees shouldn't be chosen. On the contrary, we see the possibility of postponing posts to posted officials from the political offices of this leadership by extending the possibility - beyond the Minister's office - to that of the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General. In Article 12, the qualifications of ombudsmen are described as essential to the possession of an EIO degree and to the attendance of an eighty-hour seminar organised by a certified training body. Within eighty hours and having taken a few civil, Family and Commercial Law courses, it will be possible to become accredited as a mediator with the aim of concluding a final solution or trying to resolve disputes and disputes that cover a wide range of cases. We think it's not enough eighty hours, which will appear later, when we have countless failures to take the court path. This will ultimately increase the cost of the "competent" which will be borne by both incomplete mediation and a judicial dispute. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for a fee of EUR 50 for the first compulsory session that is equally distributed between the parties, while a lawyer is required. During the first session, the ombudsman does not even enter into the substance of the case unless he examines the possibility to resolve out-of-court proceedings and decides whether mediation can continue or not. Then, in the second case, his remuneration is around eighty euros per hour, which is once again shared between the parties in accordance with Article 18. In any event, everything indicates that it will greatly increase the costs to be borne by each party. If we think that we are living at a time when many are unable to cover the amount that they are given, even for the first session, 25 euros, and especially if we are talking about labour law cases and disputes between workers and employers, it is extremely likely that the workers will leave the case. If we add, in the difficult economic position, to the fact that, in fact, workers never have the same negotiating power and power as employers, then it is almost certain that we will have many mediation efforts where the weakest part will simply resign. Articles 22-25 describe training bodies, the licensing of natural and legal persons wishing to obtain a licence, so that they can certify an intermediary. It can only surprise individuals, i.e. individuals, to open up a centre that attests to ombudsmen. What assurances are there, ladies and gentlemen, so that every city does not fill up with training centres in a short time and does not even have the necessary framework for protecting the quality of the services provided? This will jeopardise both the quality of mediation and the quality of the ombudsmen. Unfortunately, the neoliberal spirit that it breaths and this piece of legislation is in complete contrast with what we represent. We would support an effort that would alleviate the court bottles, but not the way the Ministry of Justice is attempting it with this law. We consider this to be an attempt in the right direction, but in the wrong way. Indeed, several countries have introduced the institution of mediation into their legislation with beneficial results for their judges, but also with a final reduction in the time to resolve disputes. A characteristic example is Italy, which, after having moved between voluntary and compulsory mediation, concluded in 2013 the provision for a compulsory session, which benefited the courts of the neighbour. Unfortunately, however, in our country the concept of extrajudicial dispute resolution and mediation is still premature. When, at the same time, we have such legislative efforts, which leave the scope for commercialisation and privatisation free, which are likely to involve anti-constitutional votes, incorporating provisions of Law 4512, and which ultimately increase the cost of a citizen who wants to resort to mediation, the opportunity to strengthen the credibility of the institution is unfortunately being removed. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is a good question that, although the provisions of the previous law return, the Ice Arrow's administrative plenary delivered an opinion on the constitutionality of the draft in question at the request of the Minister of Justice. In particular, the forty-three members of the Administrative Assembly unanimously considered the arrangements of the bill unconstitutional, which has sincerely given us a surprise. Ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of citizens in opaque violations and the creation of a new profession, which will leave numerous young, unemployed graduates of chemistry, who will be exploited as a cheap workforce, without anyone finally knowing what connections and what economic relationships they may hide behind every mediation centre, find us perpendicularly opposing. We cannot in any way consent to the tradition of justice in the private sector and in the business sector. After all this, we can only vote against this bill at first and look after the individual articles. For the amendment, I will be placed later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u328	Please, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister has tabled an amendment to a number of issues, some of which are particularly important and were not informed by the rapporteurs and the members of the committee when the debate took place. I understand that the Minister will present it with his speech. Since the rapporteurs could not comment on the amendment before the Minister developed it, I would like to propose - with your tolerance, Mr President - and because there are not many speakers, following the speech of the Minister, whoever the party rapporteur wishes to place himself for two - three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u330	Since there's a denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no. Secondary is in the end, Minister. However, since the rapporteurs also have to comment on the amendment, because it also raises a number of important issues, even for two or three minutes, whoever wants, after the speech of the Minister, to say something strictly about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u332	Minister, would you like to present the amendment now? However, I am only talking about the amendment, not about talking. You should make a five-minute presentation of the amendment, so that the Members of Parliament take it into account and in their dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u333	Because, Mr President, I intend to make a comprehensive speech, which will of course include the presentation of the amendment, I would say to you that the amendment on its text is well known. It has already been given to the parties since yesterday. So there is nothing that is not known. Nevertheless, let us start the list of speakers and I will speak very soon and present the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u334	Okay. Let us go in this way and the rapporteurs will have time to speak again and talk to the Minister again. The next six colleagues to speak are the following. Mrs Zetta Makri from New Democracy, Mr. Bugas, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr. Lappas from SYRIZA, Mrs. Athanasios from the Greek Solution, Mrs. Sakorafa from Mera25 and Mr. Kamine from the Change Movement. They don't change. Then any of the parliamentary representatives wants to speak, tells us. Here, Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we lawyers and, above all, our colleagues who are fighting for lawyers, but above all the parties represented in the courts, represented in the courts, experience and experience the slow and psycho-corruption process in Greece every day. And some of our clients, by the parties, may never have had time to collect the price of justice in a variety of ways. With the prevailing conditions of judiciary in Greece and simple civil and commercial cases, from the submission of a lawsuit to the first instance, at least six hundred 10 days are required on average, i.e. twenty-two months, according to an investigation by the Society of Judiciary Studies in 2016 and since then, I can assure you that they have not changed much. In this period, apparently, there are no delays, such as delays, which can really eject the period of service in several more hundred days or even a few months additional. These months, I would dare say the years of delay, may be crucial for maintaining commercial cooperation for the operation of a business. Needless to mention, of course, the demand for large sums of money as a cost for judicial costs when one-way recourse to the judicial route to resolve disputes is chosen. An alternative to these time-consuming procedures comes to offer out-of-court mediation, which, as we know, has already been in place for decades in the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, to resolve urban and commercial disputes, with a success rate of more than 75%. In recent years, this practice has recorded strong growth in the rest of Europe, particularly in Italy, with two hundred and fifty thousand cases closed by the method of mediation, France and Germany. So at international level this process is not just an acceptable process, an effective, rapid and qualitative, but is extremely attractive because of its important advantages, which is saving time and money. Ladies and gentlemen, the framework of the institution of the extrajudicial mediation has been highly concise and accurately attributed to a few lines by a prominent member of the judiciary, the former Prime Minister, now Vice-President of the Government and honorary President of the Council of State, Mr Panagiotis Pikrammenos, who said: "The methods of alternative dispute resolution are not in competition with official state justice, do not replace the courts, do not help to upgrade them. The administration of justice must adapt and go hand in hand with modern life, the current problems of society, economic development, technology in the era of the fourth industrial revolution." With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the government is attempting to fulfil one of the main obligations of the country vis-à-vis the institutions, but also to Greek citizens both in the context of reforms and in the context of the enhanced surveillance programme, which, of course, the previous government had committed itself to introducing mediation. This practice, having an initial spirit optional in its implementation, made its appearance in 2008 with European Parliament Directive 2008/52, which was incorporated into Greek legislation in 2010, with Law 3398/2010. However, the updated Law 4512/2018, on the one hand, was judged to be a constitutional year by Marios Igos, on the other hand, by a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, on the other hand, the criteria laid down by Greek legislation for the possibility of setting up bodies for the training of intermediaries by a natural or legal person, were considered to be particularly restrictive. It is therefore called upon today that the present Government be brought into line with the judgments of the Supreme Court by legislating again. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice aims to transform the mediation process from an optional institution into a conscious choice of citizens. This will result in the removal of the judiciary so that, over time, both the courts and the administration of justice can operate at a faster and more efficient rate. It is a common place that if justice, which is a pillar of our democracy, our democratic urban culture, does not work, then a number of problems begin to appear at the forefront, so that they are a brake on the development of the economic and social life of the country. The bill clearly defines the factors of the procedure, their roles and responsibilities, particularly the Ombudsman, who, beyond his scientific training and the ability to carry out his duties successfully, must be independent and neutral. At the same time, it emerges with this bill - and rightly so - the role of the lawyer with the obligation of his presence from the first meeting, which is the only one required. Of course, it is not only enough to legislate properly, but the similar culture in society also needs to be developed in order to promote and consolidate the model on which the Government's initiative was based. In this draft law also regulates issues such as the Central Committee for Mediation, the training bodies of the ombudsmen and how they will be certified, the ombudsmen and how they will be certified from their education up to their examinations, which will give them the right to pursue a new profession, as it turns out, regardless of their other scientific training and professional activity that may have taken up the duties of the Ombudsman, the way in which the ombudsmen operate and the reference to the European Code of Conduct, which is coming to cover another outstanding one that was in the need to operate under the law on the one hand, and on the other, a code of conduct which will then lead to its evaluation, but also to penalties if it does not work properly. The extrajudicial resolution of disputes could be a key to the decommissioning of the courts and therefore to the more rapid administration of justice. However, we must stand by the basic requirement that this should be achieved, that we all work systematically and methodically with a storm of information and information for the citizens, in order to make it the conscience of the Greek people, the Greek society that it is worth trying to resolve a civil dispute without recourse to the court. It is a bill other than the others, a piece of legislation that comes to cure problematic arrangements of the past and to push society into the choice of a specific alternative for which it intends, the purpose and the wish of the government and the ministry is to be a useful tool in resolving disputes, among individuals, among citizens, by dismantling justice, our assured judicial system both in volume and in money and in time. I must congratulate you as a lawyer, Minister, on your second highly successful legislative initiative and from you we await and continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bougas, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government by the Minister of Justice is recommending a bill which can be part of the resolution of the private. It is well known to all of us - and it has been discussed many times in the House - that the great problem facing us today, but also always, Greek justice is the delay in its awarding, which has caused - and I think you all know that - many convictions against our country by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the reasonable time for the political, criminal and administrative justice in our country. To address this problem, one could propose - and was proposed by the Greek speaker - an increase in the number of judges. You know, it's always been a request from associations of Judges and Prosecutors, the increase in the organic positions of judges. The answer, however, is: On the basis of the data and indeed of the European Commission's recent report on the effectiveness of justice, published in October 2018, the number of judges has increased overall in Greece by 25% for the period 2014-2016. In Greece they account for 25.8 professional judges in a hundred thousand inhabitants, with an average internationally of 21.5. In other words, we have a ratio of judges in relation to the population of the largest in the world. Despite the great increase, however, of the judges and at a time of difficulty for the country, the problem is still there. The increase in their number cannot be the only solution and, of course, it cannot be continued at all times. We are therefore obliged to seek solutions outside the judiciary. Alternative ways of resolving private disputes include mediation, i.e. the process in which the parties with the assistance of a third and an independent person, the Ombudsman, who has obtained specific training, identify the issues of the dispute between them, investigate the alternatives to resolve them and attempt to reach an agreement satisfying their real interests. The constitutional basis of this procedure is the provision of Article 5 of our Constitution. Of course, if you look at private law, it's Article 361 of the Civil Code. Mediation is not private justice, as some speakers have said, the Ombudsman is certainly not and does not replace the judge. Let me take a historical regression to make the role of mediation more understandable internationally. The institution of mediation began in the 1970s and began to spread to the United States of America. At European level, Directive 52/2008 on mediation in civil and commercial matters is important. In our country for the first time, the institution of mediation in 2001 was presented at one of the most important and most extensive scientific conferences of International Judicial Law, held in Athens by the University of Athens Law School and the Institute of Economic Studies. The first Greek legislator with mediation comes to the year 2005, when at the initiative of the then Minister of Justice - he was the Resurrection Papaliguras Minister of Justice at the time - a legislative committee was set up to reform the Code of Civil Procedure with a clear suggestion to its members - President, the Scientific Committee was Professor Klamaris - to provide specific provisions regulating mediation. Then, on the basis of the Community directive I mentioned, a separate legislative committee was set up under the auspices of Papalegura in order to draw up the draft law incorporating the Community directive into the Greek legal order. As a result of this important legal and political work, which preceded it, it is the fact that Greece was one of the first countries of the European Union, which incorporated the directive with No.3898/2010. Unfortunately, however, the efforts of the legislator, both by Law No.3898 and by later Law No. 4512, to introduce the mediation institution have failed, as many, unfortunately, have failed to do so far. These reasons for the poor performance of the institutions, which could really contribute and contribute to the decommissioning of the courts, must be looked at in particular in the absence of a spirit of conciliation, which is unfortunately diffuse in Greek society, of course, along with the attitude of the Greek lawyers, in particular, who discourage the parties in the search for such solutions. However, I think it is time to tackle mediation not as a typical obstacle that simply moves the start of legal proceedings, as so far many lawyers have taken it, but as a constructive process, from which everyone can win. This is because the difference is resolved more quickly, with less money, in less time. It shall also be resolved on the basis of a procedure specified by the parties and not strictly in accordance with the rules of procedure. However, the most important thing - particularly in commercial matters - is that, because of the mutual nature of the mediation institution, the parties retain the possibility of continuing their cooperation. In the candidate ombudsmen, for a better understanding of the institution and the above benefits the following example is usually mentioned, which is typical of those who have received mediator training. It is a real example, and I would ask you to allow me to mention it in the Chamber. In 1990, a ship from Israel sailed to the port of London, loaded with oranges. There were two companies certified and equipped with the relevant documents for claiming the consignment. They both appealed to the courts to resolve their dispute. Very soon, however, these companies were faced with two real problems. The first was that oranges began rotting and the second was that they had to make very high steps for the ship's stay at the port. These companies appealed to an ombudsman, who was the first to ask for the shipment of each of these two companies. One, then, replied that he wanted the oranges to make jam from their peel and the other that he wanted their juice. A solution has been found immediately, without either of them losing. Both parties have been completely satisfied with the mediation appeal and of course their aims have been fully achieved. Speed in resolving the dispute, satisfying both parties, avoiding burdens on the judiciary, this is the third parameter. The judicial system is being unloaded from the cases, which are resolved in the mediation. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law establishes a comprehensive, structured system of mediation rules distinguishing it from previous laws. Indicatively and in relation to the previous law, I would point out the following: compulsory mediation in Article 6 is clearly regulated, in contrast to voluntary mediation in Article 5. In the previous piece of legislation, there was confusion in the cases of compulsory mediation and the consequences of any failure to show a party were not clearly expressed. The number of ombudsmen participating in the Central Mediation Committee from two to three is also increasing, in the presence of which the work of the Committee will be facilitated, since no one in practice is better aware of the institution than the ombudsmen themselves. Also, another issue, the issue of remuneration, is now well formulated in this bill. The minimum remuneration for the compulsory initial session is EUR 50, shared by the two parties, since of course the parties have not reached another written agreement, and for each subsequent session the remuneration amounts to EUR 80. It should be noted here that the previous form of the remuneration law created a great deal of confusion, as it provided for two different amounts of remuneration, some EUR 170 and elsewhere EUR 150, and ultimately was one of the main reasons, which led in essence to the suspension of the law. The application of compulsory mediation, i.e. from 15-12020 in respect of disputes dealt with in the ordinary course of the multi-member procedure, from 15-32020 in respect of family differences other than those excluded, and from 15-5-2020 in respect of disputes brought before the ordinary court of First Instance. Minister, I would ask you here to consider this: because, as you know, the competence of the Single Court of First Instance begins with the sum of EUR 20,000, it would be appropriate, at least in the first phase, to increase the amount of compulsory mediation, i.e. 30 000, which I think is reasonable, and to start with this amount the compulsory mediation. There's a suggestion. If the parties have other proposals, we can talk about it. I think we might find a common place in this. In this way, the legislature aims to deal with any malfunctions. The evaluation is also planned after the end of the first two years of practical application of the compulsoryity of the first mediation session, which is very important and is linked to the rules of good legislation. I would particularly like to point out, before I finish today's speech, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that mediation results in concrete results. And what are these? When either party appeals to the court, it usually seeks legal certainty, which is made by means of a judicial decision, in the majority of cases. The main features of a judicial decision are legality and enforceability. If the parties also reach a conclusion on what they agree to draw up a report which is submitted, as provided for in the draft law under discussion, these two outcomes sought by the parties may be obtained, and it is doubtful whether, following a long-term judicial procedure, they succeed. This is because there is a 'judgment' in dispute, namely that it is not allowed for the same dispute, which has been resolved by mediation, to address any party from any party to the court and there is, of course, the possibility of obtaining enforcement, that is to say, that it may, by means of enforcement procedures, be enforced in practice, which will have been lodged with the Court of First Instance and has become, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 904 et seq. of the subsequent instrument of enforcement. This is done by a particularly significant reduction in the costs of proceedings, because if one chooses to bring proceedings, which will finalise and be able to take a decision after six, seven years, it is directly obliged to pay the judicial notice, which amounts to about 1% of the claimant and after the final hearing, so that he can take 'the census', i.e. the document which will enable him to fulfil his claim, will also have to pay the charge. So all this entails a very high cost which, if anyone resorts to the mediation process, gets away with it, there are no legal costs and even so high. Ladies and gentlemen, the government with the draft law under discussion demonstrates its willingness to introduce rules of extrajudicial resolution into the Greek legal order. This political will of the government must be confirmed by voting in favour of the bill and by aligning it with European requirements. I think it is a bill of good law, which will make it possible to solve important problems and to remove a number of disharmonies, which unfortunately have been tempting Greek justice for many decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Buga. It is well known that a ministerial amendment has been tabled by Mr Stavoura and Mr Tsiara, with a general number 99 and a special 7. As far as I know, she's been distributed, so you have to take her too. I don't have to ask, anyway, Mr. Chiaras signs it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u339	I would just like to say, Mr President, that we are tabling the legislative improvements in order to share with colleagues in knowing about the forthcoming legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Lappas from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes and will be followed by Mrs. Athanasios from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the bill we are discussing introduces an institution which has been well-discussed, known in European legal order for many decades and in North America perhaps a hundred, fifty years. This is where the justice and the position of lawyers in society and the economy has created many problems in implementing and implementing such an institution. That's what I wanted to say as a foreword. What does mediation want to do but to resolve a private dispute soon? I think three things should do. That is what it does in Europe and the world as a whole. It speeds up the resolution of private disputes, disproves the political courts that are literally sinking in our country from the case burden and attempts to resolve them - I claim this as a lawyer - at the least cost. Is he doing it? It remains to be proved, because so far, the efforts made with Law 3898/2010 and Law 4512/2018 have, of course, not yet been seen - it seems that they have not been incorporated into the culture, the legal concept of the Greek society of how to resolve their differences. The bill, as it was introduced, has many amendments accepted by the ministers, and that is good, because it shows that they also listened to the bodies and branches concerned with the bill and incorporated them. I stress something, Minister. The limit of 50,000 lawyers have a reason. For one to go to mediation first it must be worth it in terms of having a serious object to resolve. Because if it is the subject of a small subject and is close to the height limit, the final limit of the subordinate jurisdiction of the Peace Court, I fear that we will have the same results as the previous laws. So put a limit. Does it look too much 50,000? But the 30,000 are near the limit of the Peace Court, 40,000 are the best. Accept compromise what lawyers place and make it acceptable. You will see that it will dismantle, rally, resolve tensions and prosecute out of public dialogue atrocious and out-of-place controversy. And we tell you, because we're the lawyers, who's the most, the number one profession that's swung to the neck in the trade. And trade items are shaped by the lawyer involved himself, but he is also the one who integrates them into his profession and his perception of the privacy of differences. I have heard and agree that compulsoryity is indeed inextricably linked to the institution, because the priority it had not given. And I'm telling you, Minister, that if we don't have the legal body with us, it will never happen, but no institution of alternative dispute resolution will ever proceed. Not to mention historically why, for what reason. Because whenever lawyers were opposed to an amendment or the introduction of an institution, they never went ahead and will not go ahead. That's well known. So put the limit to 40,000 so we can have the lawyers with us. I do not want to say anything else about the bill, our rapporteur has said it. I, Minister, would just like to dwell on the amendment you have put forward. And there are three issues. One thing has to do with what we have been telling you since the day after the July elections. I myself was a spokesman and rapporteur for SYRIZA and Parliamentary Representative when with the number 81 of the next election, of 8 July 2019, you transferred all of the penitentiary and anti-criminal policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, which is not happening in any of the forty-nine countries of the Council of Europe. And now you are forced for the second time, slowly - I would say - to return structures, the ones you carried to the Ministry of Civil Protection, because you know, in particular, the State Secretary who is next to you, that never, ever can be a security issue only, the issue of penitentiary policy and, in particular, the Anti-Criminal Policy Secretariat. It is mainly a question of justice, not only because you know that, because they are involved in the execution of sentences and the law-enforcementers, i.e. the judges. I told you, Minister, that when you go to the Conference of Ministers for Justice on the issue of penitentiary policy, which is European policy, our country will be the only one of forty-nine Council members represented by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, namely the Minister for Security and not justice. We therefore support any attempts to return areas of penitentiary and anti-criminal policy to the relevant Ministry, which is the Ministry of Justice. So, as far as the return is concerned, we will vote for it and celebrate it. One of this. Let's go to Article 2 of the Amendment to the Children's House. We agree. 90% has been done before. We're making a review. The "Home of the Child" goes to the Department of Justice Directorate-General of the Ministry of Justice, but without defining an address. What address and what department will he deal with? That's a question. I leave it as a question. We also go to paragraph 3 of the amendment on the issue of custody and assistance, that is to say, the protection of minors. You're creating a department, but you're taking it to the Directorate-General for Economic Services and Administrative Support and not to the Directorate-General for Administrative Justice. Why are you doing this? I think it would be right to take it to the Directorate-General for Administration and Justice. There's his natural space. You will see that in the way you do it, you find it difficult to have the institution's return to function, that is, that is to say, which is to do with the reintegration of the detainees. It is now a dry structure after the transfer of anti-criminal policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Look at that. I'll say one last thing. I have to tell you that while in the mediation bill we have lawyers against you, now you are bringing an amendment and you are against all the lawmakers. I cannot understand that you can bring an amendment, Minister, and bring a huge disparity to the area of justice, so without any reason, without any justification and any serious arguments in the explanatory statement, to increase the positions of Presidents only of the prefectures of the criminal courts of Athens, Thessaloniki, Piraeus, by number eighty-six, by a corresponding number of the organic positions of the people of Athens, Thessaloniki. I'm incompetent. I'm watching the announcements of members of the administration of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. I fully understand what they say and their arguments, their arguments. I am incomprehensible because, together with all the parties, all the parties agree that there will be nothing in the area of justice without consultation, without dialogue, without consultation, without prior investigation of what we should do for the best, and that is why we are being given such an amendment and with such a regulation, which leaves not only the legal body, but above all the judiciary. I understand that you only accelerated it for one reason. The judges told me what's going on. You want to prevent pensioners from retiring because the period ends on 31-12 and retire to sixty-five, to make them presidents and go to sixty-seven. That's it. There's nothing else. Say what problem you solve on justice in terms of harmony, functionality and independence. What do you solve by making eighty-seven presidents of the year, while what does justice need? Workers. I mean, it's first and second. I note the argument of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors that even the three-member felonies of felonies and Athens and Piraeus and Thessaloniki are generally chaired by this year and not by a president. And there is this flexibility for the president of the teens to determine who will be chaired in each department. Why are you doing this? What's that thing? Do you see any point from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors? They're shooting you at will. Fifteen arguments have. I don't have time to say it now. I refer to the announcement by the members of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. Minister, you cannot bring an amendment to a formal law. Because if you brought this amendment when there was a meeting of the bodies, we should all hide under the seat, not to say elsewhere. But you are now, Minister. You do this without research, without bodies, without debate, on the last day of debate of the bill. Is it possible to regulate issues relating to the institutionality of the most basic core of the rule of law, justice, with an amendment simply and without any justification? Another argument I'm telling you I can't find. Because lawyers know what we need. We need real judges, we need sevens and first-time judges. This once attempted with the presidents of the formers. Shut up the whole system. They did it with the presidents of the seniors before. Justice's sinking, cases are sinking. There was no justice. The country was convicted of the excessive time for disputes to be dealt with. Because the concept of fair trial in Article 6 of the ECHR is also the rapid award of justice. You are making all this difficult and I cannot understand why, if it is not just the one I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u342	Mr. Lappa, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u343	I fully endorse the views of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, all of them. I will show you the messages we have received - how many have come - today by the judges of the Union. It's hundreds, not dozens. Answer, at least, from the Step that's why you're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u344	Thank you. I gave you a little more time, because you spoke about the amendment too. Now the Minister will talk about the amendments. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u345	We should put it all in a row, because it is good that the whole debate does not take a different turn than reality itself dictates. Thank you, Mr President. I'll just try to stay on two issues. One concerns a number of important legislative improvements, which I think are demanding almost all of Parliament's wings and the other, of course, to explain the amendment tabled, so that there is a more general knowledge in this House and that things are not heard or spoken, which are different from the aim of the Ministry of Justice. First of all, I would like to tell you that we have already accepted, through legislative improvements, a proposal that there should not be virtually three different years of mediation. We limit them to two, in order to put just the issues of Family Law on 15 January, so that there is actually a possibility of familiarising with the institution. And the cases of one-stop-stop and one-stop-shopped, we put them on March 15th. I think it is something Mr Kalamanianos had put it in, but I think that much or much has been heard by many Members of almost all the parties. The second is that I will accept the encouragement of Mr Kalamatianos and Mr Lappa, of course, and of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, and the one-sided cases will start with the sum of EUR 30,000. At least, to be informed of both the legal world and the lawyers. I have stressed from the outset that the Ministry of Justice is open to a genuinely serious possibility of consulting all stakeholders so that there are no outstanding issues. I will tell you that, with this substantial acceptance of this request, the four requests put to us by the Plenary Assembly of the Presidents of the Bar Associations - I think they were in Arta, from there they sent us, if I remember correctly - are actually accepted. I therefore consider that we are entering a new landscape with the incorporation of the institution of mediation into Greek social reality, with the alliance of all actors. This is exactly where the responsibility of all of us, and of political parties and representatives of parties, must be sought, but of course, if we do want an institution that we know has a huge success in many European countries, it also has the same success here in our country. So let's go see the amendment we talked about. I imagine that the issue at issue is an increase in the organic positions of the presidents of the year and, at the same time, a reduction in the positions of the ordinary perpetrators. Because if you're criticising me about everything else, Mr. Lappa, I think it's also wrong. Let's go settle matters that you know very well that we have inherited and we have to resolve them on the other side. Of course, it may be abundant that anti-crime policy is no longer in the Ministry of Justice and has moved, but because this move has actually taken place with various issues relating to the protection of minors, but - if I remember correctly - and with the 'Home of the Child' - we are trying to bring back the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and to give a real opportunity for these structures to function, giving real protection to all children, regardless of how the need can be presented every time and how the state must function against them. The fact that we are forming the Hariton Council because there are no three general secretaries, and there is one now in the Ministry of Justice, I imagine, is a typically pure arrangement, which could not have been discussed completely further. Like, of course, the fact of the return from the FIFG, which relates to the commitment of credit and the commitment from the Ministry of Justice, I imagine you understand that this is just a process of settlement and nothing more. So let's go talk about increasing the organic presidential positions, with the corresponding reduction in the organic positions of the perpetrators. Ladies and gentlemen, you in particular should have recognized what the reality is: long-term trials in the country's three major appeals. Problems with a very specific degree, as we know that the average length of criminal proceedings in the courts is multiple than in the past. Don't you know that at the Athens Court of Appeal are sixty-six presiding cheques? Don't you know that at the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki is thirteen and at the Court of Appeal of Piraeus are seven others? So what are we going to do with this regulation? We are actually going to give the authority to the President of the Court of Appeal, to be a man who has the specific knowledge, has the authority and has the ability to conduct trials in a shorter time, which we know very well that they hold very much, is of great interest, is of great importance and create very specific issues. And because you're going to tell me that you've received messages from some people and all that obviously don't represent the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, Mr. Lappa, but they're some personal messages and personal reports, I'm going to tell you two things. The first is that my particular has been requested by an official document of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors on 31 July, when I held the first institutional meeting with them as Minister of Justice. I'll give it to you, I have no problem. If you have it, you'll understand. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, in order to alleviate any debate which can be provoked from now on, I would like to inform you of the increase in the organic positions of judges and prosecutors in the near future and of a brave distribution in the field of the year. That is what I undertake to do in a very short time from now on - I repeat - with one possibility in very short time, in the next two years, to have incorporated a very large number of organic positions and there is no such issue. I understand that for opposition reasons, opposition tactics, there will always be if you want a 'but' or a heresy or a differentiation. All this is legitimate in a serious parliamentary procedure. But when, basically, we are converging in something that we recognise as basic and unique, which has nothing to do solely with how to incorporate an extrajudicial, innovative procedure into the part of resolving urban and commercial disputes, I think that at least on the basis of this debate, we must show the responsibility and seriousness of all the political parties and follow a path that I think will help the Greek Parliament, but also the Greek political system to demonstrate that they are worthy of the circumstances. Mr President, thank you. I shall return to the speech which actually relates to the whole bill, rather towards the end, by listening to all the other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution and immediately after Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Government on mediation. Reading the draft law, I wonder about the reactions of the legal world and the social institutions, of the citizens, who do not exist. Although the institution of mediation should be aimed at helping the administration of justice, once again, the distorted and paradoxical thinking of lawmakers in that country makes mediation not helpful and alternative, but at a major and forced stage in resolving a dispute. And not just that. The draft law, as it turns out, directly creates a framework where citizens will be invited to resolve their differences before a certified person, but not so much about the law and legal science of a competent person, since the formal qualifications to obtain the mediator's status are any HEI and not any related to legal science. There is no doubt that the Greek courts have been satisfactorily squeezed from the thousands of cases that are expected to be dealt with, and that is why an immediate solution is needed. This draft law, however, needs to be placed in a broader context of events that have taken place in our country in recent years, so that we can see where we are finally driving. And I explain: Due to the saturation of cases from 1-1-2016 with the implementation of the new Code of Civil Procedure, the speedy adoption of decisions has been attempted. I do not know whether the results of this implementation could be judged satisfactorily. Let the people in charge answer. However, the new Code of Civil Procedure has been severely judged by the legal world since, in essence, especially in the law of proof, it abolishes the living testimony of a witness, which it has replaced with a simple sworn statement, which cannot be asked by the opposing party, so that it can be even stronger proof of the facts that are being presented. So what, in practice today? The lawyer of the party examining his witness prepares the text which is only copied by the notary, for example, and is presented with the sentences in the court. It is a report of ideas from which we expect justice to be given by the natural judge. So we are both reducing the value of the witness's capacity and his usefulness in a trial, but also the validity of the judges themselves and judges, who can only in exceptional cases invite the witness to appear in front of them. That is to say, on the substance of today's unsolved and source of legal protection, there is neither the judge nor very much to manage information. And the burden in the courts continues, as there are huge gaps in the organic positions of judges and administrative staff. However, in the case-law of the Court, too many of them already stand, since, quite rightly, for various social and personal reasons of the main judges, they are on many months' leave, such as maternity leave, sergeant, maternity and paternity leave. So we are again in the same situation: delays, the burden of the other judges. And I hope that we do not have a lower quality of judiciary rulings. And we come to the present episode of the whole plan. After we have made the judges, in a sense, managers of information, you are today legislating the management of disputes by non-lawyers. Since, in the past few years, a small stone has entered into the depreciation of the quality of judicial decisions, it is now time for another one: the provision of the citizens' constitutional right to legal protection and from businesses without legal basis. Of course, I expect to see pre-formative company shapes, with legal cloaks, but they will not really be legal training. Step by step, the citizen and the weak man are removed from another constitutional right. It is removed from yet another possibility of finding a legal shelter. Reading the articles in more detail, I could say a lot, and I am sure other colleagues have raised these issues. However, I would like to dwell on Article 5(1) for mediation with banking institutions. Why shouldn't the show be compulsory with a lawyer? Why? For the good of the citizens, who are being devastated by the banks? No, of course not. For the sake of the banks, so they don't have any expense, but also special legal resistance. Exempt and accepted that banks would not even pay fees in favour of the Greek public and copies, when millions of dollars made payment orders against the Greek people and which, otherwise, applies to all Greek citizens and businesses. Large company shapes will therefore emerge and manage these fates of the Greeks as well. And they will also be non-Greek and certainly non-legislative. We will meet in the future at times when the citizen will call for the mediation company and listen to a robotic system to say to him: For commercial differences press one, for prosecutors of different types press two and for anything else, do your cross. Although you're going to ban him, too. After that, Minister, the institution of mediation is an important institution, although it works for the benefit of the citizen and man, but above all for the strongest and most pertinent pillar of democracy, that of justice. But here, I am very afraid that we are actually leading to good practice, but it will have a problematic application and risk being removed from its purpose of giving justice and above that, restoring order in society and protecting the orderly functioning of trade and social peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Mrs Sakova has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on which we are called upon to place ourselves today is the second attempt to integrate Directive 2008/52 of the European Parliament of 21 May 2018. The first attempt was made with Law 3898/2010 and has not worked. The direction of the directive is to enable citizens to take action in an alternative way, in the context of a friendly settlement, with a view to simplifying the administration of justice and, ultimately, to speeding up the administration of justice. But here, there is a paradox. Since 2001 with Law No 2915/2001 and until now, at the rate of one to two laws a year, there has been an attempt to speed up policy, sometimes criminal and sometimes administrative justice. Approximately twenty laws on speeding up or simplifying its administration to justice in eighteen years. This is a negative worldwide record of the Greek political system, of course. Nevertheless, the large proportion of citizens, rightly, are not satisfied either with the speed or the quality of justice. In the legal order several times attempted to speed up the administration of justice, sometimes by setting deadlines and lastly by prescribing sentences and pleas, sometimes by introducing violations of legal remedies, at times by assigning more cases to the courts and at times by establishing alternative ways of regulating disputes. There are now five ways of non-judicial resolution of private disputes: Arbitration, compromise settlement, attempted compromise, judicial mediation and mediation. They have not worked either because they are too expensive, because they are time-consuming or because they are lacking in clarity. So we are regulating mediation today without having wondered why none of these ways of extrajudicial dispute settlement have worked. Each government is bombing Parliament by a storm of legislation, and this is projected as a productive government project. So we end up with evil and pluralism, with ambiguity, conflicting provisions and without a systematic approach. This is also the big issue, the absence of a simple and clear legal system. Instead of thinking about how to change these distortions, instead of increasing the funds for justice, instead of planning to increase the organic positions of judges and the recruitment of a sufficient number of judges, instead of supporting and shielding justice, we are essentially legislating to prevent the citizen from resorting to justice. Today, with the bill, we are inspiring the concept of 'private justice'. This is also our leading disagreement with the institution of mediation. No individual can grant compulsory law in a forced form, as was done before the French Revolution, on feudalism. We are standing in the democratic need of the principle of natural justice, of the person with functional and personal independence, which is generally legitimised in advance to judge a particular person and a specific case, according to the law and the Constitution. Perhaps the judge's greatest independence is a way of speeding up justice. Today, however, with the draft law we confess to the failure to speed up the administration of the judiciary of Law4335/2015. You claim that you regulate the slow pace of justice by mediation, which has already been introduced into the Greek legal system nine years ago with Law 3898/2010 and which has failed. The institution that has failed, we seek to make it compulsory'regulating' it, today, in some procedures, tomorrow to all. The weaker economic citizens will also face additional costs. In mediation they will not feel security, since the Ombudsman will be any scientific expertise, without compulsory circular legal studies. Can the few seminars of certification inspire citizens' confidence in the fullness of the ombudsman? Ladies and gentlemen, there are no adequate guarantees for the citizen's impartiality, impartiality and objectivity. There shall be no guarantee of transparency with the absence of the obligation to make public and the specific and in-depth statement of reasons. The judgments published and the case-law are a safe guide and the lawyer who will advise his client about his actions and the judge in disputes for which he will rule. There will be no such information in mediation. You're probably trying to solve an unpleasant situation. Many young scientists, ombudsmen, have no professional matter, although since 2010 they have paid very large sums for their education and certification in intermediation centres with few conditions of establishment and operation. Instead of checking these procedures and asking for responsibility today, are we legalising them, ladies and gentlemen? So, beyond my vertical opposition to the bill, I also find some serious shortcomings. I will not say that they are intentional shortcomings. The law, for example, exhaustively regulates the issues of course after the failure of mediation, how the practice of mediation will be carried out, the effect of mediation on limitations and other deadlines. However, a key issue is not regulated. For what clear reasons the citizen can turn against the practical effect of mediation, if, for example, he finds out, after all, that he has been deceived. Why is it not for a specialised court to judge differences in mediation with transparency and guarantees? Will mediation differences be resolved again by mediation? Should mediation be a fully voluntary process? In the way that we are currently regulating mediation, justice is not speeding up, nor is it qualitatively upgraded. What is certain is the violent deflation of the law by day-to-day lawyers, whose material is, of course, falling, while also under pressure from the obligation to pay excessive social security premiums, as well as the obligation to pay a high tax, such as all self-employed scientists. And in parentheses, high taxation for self-employed scientists goes on with the new tax bill you submitted, while you did not lighten their heavy insurance burdens, in total contrast to your election announcements. The conclusion, therefore, is that access to the very few hegemonicly paid lawyers, who would award justice, will only have one rich oligarchy. Justice will be an oligarchal luxury where and whenever it suits the mighty. In other cases, mediation will be the private justice of the few who seek to resolve their differences with the weaker, away from the lights of publicity. No annoying details, no trials, no judges, no lawyers. It is certain that this is not called justice. It is clear that this process does not serve democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa, too. Mrs Kefala from New Democracy, and then Mr Kamine, Mr Aylonite and Mrs Adamopoulou, speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is among the countries with most convictions from the European Court of Human Rights for delays in the administration of justice. This problem is not new, it is time-consuming, as are the fragmentary reforms, which usually solve a problem in the justice system, but at the same time create other new ones. Why, though, is that so? Greece does not lack a sufficient number of judges, as is not lacking in competent judges. The Greek judges also respond to their duties in extremely difficult circumstances and, in most cases, manage to issue in the nearest year the highest possible number of decisions, without a discount on the quality of legal crises. However, the problem remains as much reform as it is in the judiciary, no matter how speedy the procedures are by adopting new regulations in civil, criminal and administrative matters. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the real cause of the problem is that the number of cases pending before the courts remains too large. And that is because, contrary to what is happening in the developed countries of Western Europe and America, in Greece, we have not yet become acquainted with the alternative forms of dispute resolution. We remain at institutional level, but also as a society, committed to the resolution of disputes by the head of the committee. At mental level above all we prefer the judge to impose a solution - even unfavourable to us - rather than sit on the other side at the same table to find a mutually acceptable solution. The extrajudicial resolution of disputes remains at hybrid level. Its different forms have either not been legislated, fragmented, or legislated in such a way that it becomes impossible to implement in practice. The first and perhaps the most important form of alternative dispute resolution is mediation. Intermediation is not appropriate for all types of cases, nor can it be applied everywhere with the same success. It is appropriate, however, for differences with purely or primarily financial, economic or property, such as most civil cases, commercial affairs or even family differences, such as nutrition and custody of children. In these cases it is also about mediation with the bill we are debating today. Why is this bill necessary? But precisely because in relation to what I said earlier, mediation is a characteristic institution which was introduced into the Greek legal order in such a way that it does not apply in practice. For almost a decade now, thousands of ombudsmen have been trained and certified throughout the entire Greek territory and yet, so far, very little mediation has taken place throughout Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the original mediation law of 2010 has failed miserably, because you cannot introduce a completely new institution into the Greek legal order and not provide for ways in which it operates in practice. You cannot legislate anything new and at the same time satisfy all those interests that benefit from the old. And after so many years with no effect, the SYRIZA - ANEL government passed new provisions on mediation in 2018. This law could have been in the right direction because, in fact, it had to introduce the obligation of mediation as a front of the procedure before the courts for these reasons: to familiarize citizens and lawyers, with the new institution, in the hope, at the same time, that a large number of cases would be resolved at this stage. In order to save people time and money and finally get rid of the system of awarding the great number of cases. In order to speed up the resolution of disputes at all levels, both out-of-court cases to be resolved in the context of mediation and in judicial matters through the justice system. But this law has failed miserably. Its arrangements, as a result of the misrepresentation which characterised the previous government, were considered unconstitutional by the administrative plenary session of the Ice Bay. The law was suspended and the Court of Justice of the European Union ruling that the restrictions of the previous legislative regime, with regard to the training bodies of ombudsmen, were contrary to Union law, was then adopted. All this, ladies and gentlemen, today we come to deal with it, cure the sufferings of the past, and finally give the Greek legal order a modern piece of legislation for the implementation of mediation in practice. Specific categories of cases will be subject to the initial mediation session, but with strict conditions and guarantees and with full respect for the right to legal protection afterwards. This is why, contrary to the previous law of the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL, the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay approved - and even unanimously - as a constitutional bill, this bill proposed by the Government of New Democracy, a bill which, with the support of Greek society, lawyers and ombudsmen, is expected to contribute substantially to the rapid and effective resolution of private disputes. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, too. Mr. Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I was expecting a bill, Mr Minister, - you are already a government for some time - to call it a 'brooms bill' for justice. Justice has huge problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u354	It's the next bill. I've been telling you this from now on so you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u355	I say this because I am curious that you have introduced two instruments - one was the penal codes, which created terrible tensions and tensions in this Chamber - and you choose to intervene in matters relating to justice. I, my dear colleague, would really like to do a good, serious job, since we are lawyers and as lawyers we are better aware of all the problems of justice. And I'm explaining why I'm saying this: I hear a colleague from New Democracy who says that the New Democracy has decided to legislate on such an important issue for justice, while we all know that if we read Law 4512/2018 - I am not saying the number? - they're exactly the same. Sort of. So, simple changes if you did, you would build a legal structure that would cover what you want politically, ideologically and in any case as you want to govern. I am simply trying to identify issues relating to the current political context and what we call 'political marketing', dear Mr Kouvella, rapporteur for the majority. This is a serious matter. It is a party that has to do with the administration of justice. So since it is so serious, it should be dealt with very seriously. A very large part of the Greek society that deals with justice is the judges and is the lawyers. I hear you too many times in here mentioning the positions of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. What do I mean by that? We either accept that the judges have a good reason or do not accept, not every time we take it and argue about it. I would like to say something to you: I have heard Mr Lappa, who rightly pointed out issues in relation to the amendment. So since you are listening to the judges, I would like to tell you that the Association of Judges and Prosecutors - I have before me their announcement and the press release - has repeatedly stated that this amendment can lead us to unanswered questions and strange questions. And I'll explain why I'm saying that. Listen to what he says: it must be made clear that the implementation of such an amendment, which is removed from the real demand for an increase in organic positions, does not in any way reflect the needs of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u356	But we announced that, too, the adoption of organic positions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u357	And I keep going. Let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u358	What else can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u359	Leave me a moment, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u360	I've answered that, I don't know if you've understood it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u361	So I ask you questions from the Union of Judges and Prosecutors to answer them. So they ask the judges and prosecutors, firstly, why change the existing relationship between organic positions and, secondly, who serves such a redistribution and who has put this request to the Ministry without having been discussed on the board of the Union of Judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u362	I gave you the document. What else can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u363	Minister, he has the ability to say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u364	Answer the prosecutors and judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u365	Leave it now, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u366	And third question, Minister: why does the Ministry of Justice go to such a regulation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u367	What you have asked me has already been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u368	Listen to me, Minister. Every time you and I talk, you get rid of each other. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u369	You weren't present in the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u370	I have no further question why I am confusing you. But I will tell you another thing, in line with the communiqué of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. In reply to what you said earlier, the reason why you make eighty-six-seven presidents of a year is to give the appeal court an opportunity - in which he works at any event - to presiding sevens, that is to say, to have, in effect, the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Communities' position. Let me tell you what the sevens, the judges, the originals, the prosecutors on this question are saying: The claim that the President-in-Office will have more authority in the trialogues, because he will have a higher degree of hierarchical authority, seems rather childish, says the judges, the prosecutors and the chefs. There will be no significant wage difference with promotion, since the oldest chicks will already be exhausted, and the rest will be paid. So why are you doing this? So I start and suspect myself, the naive lawyer, now a congressman from Corfu. Why are you doing this? Let me tell you why you're doing this and see how the balance changes. You are making presidents of the year, who will not have whom to run, because today the power is - let me consult my papers - three hundred fours and a two-sixteen president. If we remove from the three hundred and seventy-four of eighty-six equal boats, equal sails.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u371	No, don't mess it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u372	A president, one year. Let me just finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, I want the floor. Semi-learning is a big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u374	Minister, all right, but now it's not right what you're saying. No, it's right that half-learning is a problem, but it's not right... Wait a minute, Mr. Auslonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u375	This is not called semi-learning, it is said that I have the wrong information. Don't insult me! If I have the wrong information, you tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u376	Excuse me, what you read is the result that will come about!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u377	Minister, there's no need for what's happening now. Please, the Cardinal from Everett's time has been made public. Don't do this, you've started with Mr. Lappa. Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u378	In addition, I would like to emphasise this very quickly: Minister of Justice, you know very well that the issue of compromise between the parties has been tested. Our institutional framework has been attempted with Article 209 of the Code of Civil Procedure and with the 214A and, unfortunately, we have failed. Note: Scientists have failed to reconcile the procuring parties. I would like to ask myself, and I am saying this out loud: one who does not have legal knowledge of how to advise the proceedings when, under Article 209 of the Code of Civil Procedure, Mr Couvela, the practical compromise should actually be drawn up in such a way that it really is within the framework of the law and should be enforced? So all this is very serious, so I am saying, I insist that when a piece of legislation becomes so big, so important, we have to ask the lawyers, ask the judges, the packets we take each time in the beam, and use them for whatever views they have on our party interest. I would therefore like to conclude by saying to you - because I had a great deal to say on this issue - that, as far as the issue of compulsoryity is concerned, however much as my colleague Mr Lappas said it should be the mandatory competence of mediation to EUR 40,000 - the amount has to be increased, that the world should be forced to initiate the mediation process. Above all, I stress that the Ombudsman should be certified by people, by public services and not by them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Aylonite, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u380	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me also tell you about the subject of advertising: You have imagined the ombudsman going out with the dough and saying: "Here the good ombudsman!" In the field of advertising, the provisions on advertising should apply to lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u382	In no case did I want to hurt my fellow Member, and I want to say it in the first place. But I would like to prevent other speakers from saying things that are not true. The letter you have read, Mr. Colleague, is not of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, it is some members of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u383	He's the President of the Union!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u384	No, there's a big difference. Don't confuse it. And we need to be perfectly precise, so we know what's going on and what's not happening. Secondly, the figures you have presented earlier in this House are the figures that will appear after the regulation, not the figures that exist today. So you realize that things are not where you claimed earlier. I say this in order to prevent colleagues who may come after a while in the Step and refer to exactly the same things. It is good to know exactly what is going on, to know exactly what each letter represents. It would also be a good thing if there were to be a more general knowledge - and I say it as an exhortation and I do not want to misunderstand myself - of the bill that we are voting on today. There are many Members who have come to Stepma who have said things which have either changed or been predicted. It is of great importance at least in a serious and responsible procedure for anyone who comes to the Stepau to have the real knowledge of the draft legislation, because from there on either side or we will simply be forced to say what the bill says and to call on each Member to see the very particular provision or article, or on the other hand it is simply for impression purposes. And I don't think there should be such an approach in a bill from the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u385	Thank you. Mrs Adamopoulos has the floor from Mera25, and then Mrs Rapt is from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u386	Did you exaggerate me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u387	Your turn will come, we're not so many. I don't get over anyone, it's not my jumping up! You're after Mr. Kamine. I would like to say that an amendment has been tabled by Mr Stavoura and Mr Georgiadis. I am not saying it because it has been tabled, but I am simply saying it to inform Mr Stagioras, who has to come to support, otherwise he will not come in. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and two teachers attending the 3rd Volos High School (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer first to the bill and then to the amendment. So we are discussing today a bill in which the government has given special weight to communication. The Ministry presents compulsory mediation in private affairs as something that is necessary for the law of the Union itself and as an economic and rapid solution. Members of the New Democracy speak of a tool that will harness the Greek law and release the bottles. In the media, too, the Italian example is often heard. So all this is invoked by the government rather - much as data and post offices, which cannot be called into question. Is that really so? First, I shall invoke the famous Directive 52/2008. In the introductory paragraph 8, the directive says that it should apply only to cross-border disputes, that is, when, for example, a Greek supplier has differences with a French customer. In other cases it says that Member States are not required, but they may apply those provisions, not that they are required. So transferring the model of the directive to our reality is not an obligation at all, but an option. This results without any margin of doubt from the directive itself. So let us make it clear to the citizens that compulsory private mediation in civil and commercial matters does not bear the European Union's seal, but the seal of the government itself, and of course Law 4512/2018 brings the SYRIZA seal. The first conclusion, therefore, is that compulsory mediation does not require us by the European Union. I now come to the issue of bicommunalism. It makes me a real impression that this has been heard by fellow lawyers. In 2019, a model, a stereotype that has not been confirmed for a long time, given the crisis, is being reproduced. On today's day for what bipartisan Greece are we talking about? Bicoloria, as we know, is a luxurious sport, which requires economic power. Who, then, are the money - especially this day - to be a coward? Even we see it in the criminal courts, where there is a risk of imprisonment, and yet we know all the lawyers who have the relevant experience that they are mostly filled up by the authoritarian appointment, because the defendants are unable to afford even their own defence. We even see it in divorces where most are consensual about disputes. So from bicommunication, do the bottles fill up, or, for example, from applications for the debts and protection of the first place? The primary courtrooms are full of them? Those who are in the field and practice the profession see how the courts are moving and how many just lawyers have representations. We're talking about 60% to 70% of lawyers who in one year may not have a single show in court. So let's go on to the issue of international good practice, which we invoke. Even in Europe, mediation is almost everywhere voluntary and optional. Exemptions are Italy and Malta in some family differences and Austria in few cases. The conclusion, therefore, is that such extensive compulsory mediation is not just an international practice, but is a very limited exception. It is just your own broad model which will be a pan-European originality or an irregularity with the blessings of BSE and insurance companies. The issue of costs has been analysed several times. I won't insist. However, it follows from that that conclusion that mediation is not an economic solution which ensures comfortable access to the average citizen, because at a monthly salary of 600 euros it cannot be considered as an affordable amount of some EUR 1,000 that is estimated to cost the mediation in a case, even moderately difficult. Furthermore, if mediation eventually fails, the citizen will be called and paid more and waited longer, since the cost along with any penalty will then be added to the costs and the procedure will be delayed further. You allow persons who have no legal qualifications to be certified and acting as intermediaries. This is the paradox of the bill. Citizens, in other words, will address issues with legal implications to an Ombudsman, who may be a graduate of Physical Education, Geology, Theology. The reference to these fields is indicative. My goal is not to degrade any cognitive objects. Here, then, we will have an ombudsman who will be called upon to deal with legal issues in which the legislatures themselves often disagree, there is controversial and divided case law, even in the courts. How reliable, then, will an Ombudsman who is called upon to regulate a situation when present lawyers will much better know the subject than he is? It is therefore completely incompatible and inappropriate to deal with such cases by a professional who has no serious knowledge of the law, and for whom the eighty hours of training are very little to gain this knowledge. Nor is there any point in telling us that the interested parties will be able to choose a legal ombudsman if they want to do so, and so there is no problem, because if all interested parties finally make this wise choice for their own security, all the non-legislators who have paid badly to draw up and certify themselves will simply cry at EUR 2 000 and at the hours they have spent. You are also telling us that the citizen does not lose the right to access the natural judge because the court will simply ratify the practical compromise. The judges themselves answer as follows: Either the case will be examined completely formal and superficial - and therefore there will be no guarantee, beyond the Ombudsman's own good faith and credibility - or the judge will in the end examine all the case in order to confirm the final compromise, with the consequence that he has already caused the delay he supposed to prevent mediation. You are also telling us that there is no question of the independence and impartiality of ombudsmen. First of all, where does this come from? What do the judges say about this? If it is involved, for example, in the difference between a bank or an insurance company or another natural or legal person, which is forced by reason of the object of recourse to mediation with a high frequency and therefore there is an increased volume of cases, it is very intense that the temptation for the intermediary ultimately prefers to maintain this part in his clientele, showing the favor and discrimination required in favour of the most powerful party in his decisions. All these points have already emerged in Decision 34/2018 of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay, which considered the contents of several provisions of the previous law unconstitutional. Here again, we see this paradox: While basically the structure and basic features of this draft law differ little from the previous law, the administrative plenary is now in its new decision to overturn the previous one. There is a complete transformation and there is no unconstitutionalism. I'm not going to get into public criticism. There are simply reasonable and legitimate questions to everyone in this regard. Clearly I do not think there is a reasonable person who prefers the disputes to the agreement. There is therefore no question as to the value and usefulness of mediation in general. This is clearly an extremely attractive way out, which will have advantages both for citizens and for society. It can certainly promote the resolution of climate-consensual disputes in order to avoid tense situations, which, for example, in family differences, have seen poisoning social relations. However, mediation by mediation differs. There are various models and various solutions that are envisaged even in our own law. For example, extrajudicial mediation works when it is based on the sincere will for a mutually acceptable compromise. This sincere will under no circumstances can be the result of compulsion. It depends mainly on the actual potential of stakeholders, along with the nature and difficulty of the dispute. But most importantly, it depends on the incorporation of a similar culture which will allow such institutions to proceed effectively, efficiently and above all in terms of equal treatment of the parties and impartiality. Here, therefore, compulsoryity is even contrary to the very concept of mediation which must be a product of choice rather than a coercion. Instead of precedenting an institution in specific cases where it is seriously likely that it can actually have some tangible and immediate results, the government prefers an extension to almost all civil and commercial matters. Of course, there is another paradox that has already been touched by colleagues: there are differences from the compulsory initial session when the party is the public, the Otta and the legal entities governed by public law. I ask: is this the example of a good culture which the state itself must give its citizens, to oblige him to take part in a process which is in the common interest, but which is ultimately excluded from it? The most important issue, arising from the bill, is also the one causing the greatest anxiety. There is a clear aim here to privatize justice, to favour certain interests. You create a place of entrepreneurship where the state itself traditionally has constitutional authority. This, of course, follows the well-known neoliberal pattern, we deport the public from within and then load it all the suffering and thus appears to the private as a manna from heaven. This soil is intensively cultivated now. We see it in health, education, social security. So now we see it in the field of justice. Unique winners will certainly not the ombudsmen themselves, but the businessmen, mediators, who will ultimately have them as mere basic salary employees, with case-clearing bonuses. But who are the great losers? On the one hand, the economically weak citizens, who will be governed by the well-founded party and a system of mediation of doubtful credibility and impartiality. On the other hand, it is our own state which today indirectly confesss to being weak and unable to provide its citizens with effective judicial protection and thus accepts to grant part a very fundamental pillar to individuals. The question is, why should the judges and lawyers themselves not be specifically trained in this regard, as it is a question of ineffectiveness? In closing my position, I shall refer to the fourth amendment on mortgage rights. On the one hand, you are burdening citizens with increasing their rights and, on the other, you are extending the collection of some of them to private mortgages. This is what you tell us that you are doing so that the mortgages give up part of the increase, 1/4 or 1/8, to support the logistics infrastructure of mortgages and property offices. Firstly, it is not clear what will become the rest and much more of the revenue from the increases, namely 3/4 to 7. What about this? Will the mortgage guards themselves enclose it? Secondly, according to Law 4512/2018, mortgages are already gradually transferred to the new property structure, which will be subject to the Ministry of the Environment. It should be noted that this merger has been under way for two years. It's already been delayed over time. So why is it that the Ministry of Justice is once again burdening the citizens to finance an area which will soon be transferred to another Ministry's jurisdiction? Does the "Greek Stock Exchange" itself not have to ensure the technical upgrading of structures, so as to offer uniform services? Why does the citizen still have to be punished? I shall refer briefly to the amendment, which relates to the provision for the promotion of eighty-six years to the extent of the President. The association of judges has already said that this is a photographic amendment to promote specific cases. There has been no consultation, no consultation, no dialogue, no dialogue. The Code of Justice itself provides that any such distribution is normally made in exceptional cases. So we ask here: What special case dictates this? And since, Minister, you have undertaken that there will be corresponding increases in the organic positions of judges, the question is why is it not now? Why have you not ratified the act of legislation in order to increase organic positions? You're tied up. So when this is done, we are clearly going to welcome it. I've never seen this document.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u389	He's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u390	In any case, we have an editorial, we have articles from the presidents of this Parliament - such as Mr Sevastides - who say that in no case did they ask - for the meeting that the board of directors had with you after taking up your duties - the promotion of the Presidents to take place with the abolition of their respective positions. In no case does this amendment reflect the needs of the judiciary. On the contrary, they argue that it distorts the request to match the positions of the presidents in the data that would result from the increase in organic positions. So there has never been a request to dismantle this year's posts and to be dismantled from the main request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u391	Thank you. Mrs Rapti has the floor. After Mrs. Raptis, it's Mr. Kamines. Here, Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u392	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason I wanted to speak in the debate on this law is precisely because I think it is a huge opportunity to change the conflict resolution map in our country. Ten years after the adoption of the first mediation law, the Ministry of Justice brings to plenary a truly excellent law, proving the strong political will of the government to take steps forward, aligning Greece with modern practices that apply very successfully to tens of legal systems of many countries in the world and at the same time satisfying a demand from the mature Greek society that a large volume of private dispute resolution should be transferred from the courts' halls to the mediation rooms. Ladies and gentlemen, mediation has not come to replace anything, much more justice. She's here to help her. The modern trend, which exists all over the world, is declassification. The mediation law will unload a charged judicial system from thousands of cases. It will give more time to the hearing, make the terms of office of judges and courts more human, speed up the time of judgments. Some have talked about privatization of justice just to create impressions. But mediation, ladies and gentlemen, does not make any decisions. The ombudsmen shall not be judges. There are excellent judges who have this role. In mediation, the decision is in the hands of the parties. Do you know what that means? The social dimension means much less conflict, a new culture of resolution, a less economic burden for the citizen. At a business level, it means a direct solution to thousands of cases, a continuation of the trade relationship between the parties, an economy which does not stop producing GDP at budgetary and institutional level, and a justice that operates more efficiently and at lower cost. Ladies and gentlemen, the high degree of this law is undoubtedly the obligation of the parties to come to an initial meeting with a neutral ombudsman in order to examine the possibility of resolving their dispute by mediation so that they do not go to the courts. I should like to stress at this point that the new law is fully in line with the basic conditions which judge the constitutionality of the compulsory mediation of Article 6 and something which, in a deafening way, confirmed the pre-day opinion of forty-three judges of the Ice Board of Directors. We are finally in the face of a new start with the sealing of everyone, in a really large section, which - let me say that - should have been in Greece for many years now, and is still happening today. With the provision of compulsoryity and no change in the voluntary nature of the procedure and the parties now have the way of a consensual solution through a structured process, a process with prestigious and spectacular statistics on the resolution of cases internationally. It is also extremely good that, with regard to the previous law, the new law considerably widens the scope of the disputes that are subject to compulsory mediation. As is also appropriate to provide for the law on gradual introduction of cases, in order to allow the necessary time to adapt the system to be managed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that the legal community - which is at the heart of this process - with lawyers both as ombudsmen and as lawyers, will support the new law in practice, making it part of daily legal practice. Thousands of legal offices around the world provide mediation services and use the institution for millions of cases. It is my strong belief that the new institution will add new material and new possibilities to the profession. I also want to believe that the Greek judges will make use of the provision of the law by calling on thousands of parties to find a solution to mediation. It happens in judiciary systems of dozens of countries, with spectacular results. I am, finally, sure that the Ministry, in cooperation with all market operators, will take advantage of this great opportunity to present the new institution with all the available means, so that mediation is not just used, but to become part of our consciousness and everyday habit. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before us we have a very modern law and a strong perspective to change the image of dispute resolution procedures. The Ministry did an excellent job, useful legislative improvements that resulted from discussion in committees, with an open spirit of legislating at every stage of the process. In front of us is the great bet of the legal community to fully integrate this institution. I think it's a bet that's going to be won. I am sure this law will be passed by all the groups of Parliament, sending a message that Greece is going through a new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Rapt. Mr Stavura, you have the floor. Soon, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to talk about an amendment, with a general number of 100 and a special number 8, concerning the responsibilities of the Securities and Markets Committee for the convening of a general meeting of companies. With these provisions we are equiping the Securities Committee, i.e. the competent body responsible for supervising the Greek capital market, with the possibility of effective intervention in cases where there are phenomena of significant malfunctioning of companies listed in the Greek Stock Exchange. A recent example of the distortion and repetition of the institutional framework for the proper functioning of listed companies is that of FOLLI FOLLIE and its management. This new institutional tool of the Securities Committee, with which we worked closely for this purpose, aims to defend the proper functioning and credibility of the Greek market and thereby defend the interests of investors and strengthen the economy. In particular, the proposed provision provides in exceptional cases only the possibility for the Securities Committee to request a listed company, such as the one I mentioned, the convening of a general meeting of its shareholders in a similar manner of what is currently foreseen for minority shareholders and the company auditor, to request the court to appoint a temporary director of the listed company. It is also about the company, when it is essentially in a lack of administration. These specific forecasts are limited to the extent necessary to defend the proper functioning of the Greek capital market. I want to be quite clear. We act decisively, boldly, efficiently. The provisions do not constitute an intervention in the functioning of the public limited liability company or in the management of corporate affairs, but an action to deal with specific circumstances such as FOLLI FOLLIE, for the purpose of protecting and ensuring the smooth operation of the capital market, which is a public interest reason. I note, moreover, that, as a consequence of limiting the measure to the absolute necessary extent, listed companies, such as banks, which are already under the supervision of the SSM and the Bank of Greece, are explicitly excluded from the scope of the provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u395	Yes, Minister. Mr. Kamines wants to ask you a question. And I want to ask you a question. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u396	It's not a question, Mr. President. It is an intervention, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u397	After you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u398	I want to comment on what we have heard right now. Can't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u399	You can't... I'll let you do that, but for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u400	Because I am young in Parliament, there may be something I ignore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u401	I'm sorry, but because you're talking now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u402	Good. I will comment on what I hear and continue with my intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u403	Good. Can I ask the question first?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u404	On the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u405	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u406	I'd like to comment too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u407	Minister, I would like to ask the following question. Write if there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a member's stay of the Board of Directors, etc. Do you know that part of your amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u409	I would like to ask who judges the legitimate suspicions and who decides. In other words, 'founded suspicion' is a very general term.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u410	Would you like me to place yourself, Mr. Kamine, and answer the whole question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u412	This is not about my speech on the bill. I would like to say that it is good, Mr President, sometimes to remember where we are and what rules we operate. I'm young in the House. I was only elected in July. Let me, however, as an academic teacher, express my grief because we have seen the tabling of amendments which have nothing to do with the main subject of the bill that we are discussing for many years. I feel a little weird talking about it. But I also feel the need to say something about the fact that the government, at least in its programme statements, has at the moment been following us here for proper legislation. I also see, with great grief - and I say this sincerely - the government dismantling its programme statements as if it were a sweater, one by one. I'm referring to, I'm only commenting on the assignments to the hospital administrations we saw the other day in Carditsa. We're learning about Kos now, and I don't know what else she's going to follow. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u413	Minister, I would like to say this before you answer a whole question. I hear there will be another amendment. I don't know which ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u414	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u415	This thing can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u416	I'd be beg you this. We have four laws by 14 December and then we have the budget. This fourth amendment may enter another law. Contact the respective ministers. I cannot accept it, but I tell you that there are now three speakers left in fact. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u417	First of all, I would like to answer the core of your question. In the first paragraph, there is a clear reference, as the rapporteur says. Paragraph 1 provides for the possibility of the Securities Committee - Mr President, I reply to your question - to be able to request companies with listed shares and other points where non-compliance with obligations of the capital market legislation is systematically detected, for which a general meeting decision is required, particularly when the need for compliance with the mandatory corporate governance arrangements is not met by a general meeting decision. It is therefore essentially the market committee that will judge it. As far as your own concerns are concerned, it is reasonable. The answer from the government's side has been given. As far as I am concerned, I rarely come here to support amendments, but I think that no one in this Chamber can question the necessity and implicitness with which we should act in the case of FOLLI FOLLIE, which we have found from the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Stavura, I feel that you haven't answered my question. In other words, it states: ‘Or where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a member of the board of directors of the company would be a threat to normal operation’. And you're telling me that the Securities and Markets Committee judges it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u419	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u420	How does the Securities and Exchange Committee know? Who recommends it to the Securities Committee, the others of the Governing Council? I don't know. Is there going to be some kind of cylindrical after he defines it more specifically? I'd like to understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u421	They are the responsibilities of the Securities and Markets Committee. It's known.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u422	Excuse me, you're an economist, but when someone creates...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u423	Now you're having a dialectic conversation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u424	I'm having a dialectic conversation, but it's important that Members understand it. If anyone creates obstacles to the functioning of the company, a member of the board of directors, the other members or the CEO or the president can even appeal to the court and say "I want it to come out". Does the committee take this into account in this procedure? That's simple, I'm not saying anything. Whatever you say, I'm stopping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u425	Mr President, could I say something before the Minister responds?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u426	Here you go, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u427	That's not a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u428	I beg your pardon, Mr Colleague, it is not a procedure for the amendments to come as they come at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u429	I didn't mention to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u430	Please. Minister, I do not question your good intentions. But I cannot accept the argument in the remarks made by Mr Kamine and the President-in-Office, Mr Vitsa, that the urgency is a matter which is indeed a very serious matter, that this amendment should come only now. So why couldn't this amendment have been tabled to the committees, have the corresponding study also been carried out by the praisers of our parties and our parliamentary groups? I do not question your intentions, and in any case you have a Committee on Finance in progress, there is the tax bill in progress, and it will be tomorrow morning. I would like to say something else. I have now heard from the President that there will be another amendment. I do not know which ministry it will be, but I would like to say in advance that we cannot accept another amendment. You have tabled it, you have explained it to us, we will also hear your answer, but I think, Mr President, that we must stop here. No other amendment can be tabled. It's unacceptable. Let's go to the next bill. We are now under appalling pressure and without being able to analyse the consequences at a time. We are also forced, often, to be negative, because we are not sure about the procedures that the amendments are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u431	Minister, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u432	I don't have anything to add. I think it is clear why we tabled the amendment. It concerns the proper functioning and reliability of the Greek market which has been affected for a long time. It's a well-known story. The complaints are well known. The non-change of the board of directors is known and the Government has decided to act decisively, following a recommendation from the Securities Committee, an independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u433	Good. Mr. Chiara, are you accepting her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u434	Yes, Mr. President. Obviously the Ministry of Finance's amendment is accepted, and I would like to give a small answer to my dear colleagues before I mention an amendment from the Ministry of Justice, but you will understand that it is the result of the previous debate we had in the relevant parliamentary committees. Ladies and gentlemen, the need always arises from the moment and I think you know it very well. It is an amendment which, of course, I understand and accept that it can come in the middle of a parliamentary procedure, but who can question the feasibility of this amendment which the Minister for Finance has just tabled to the House? I say this because I realise that there can be a more general debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u435	What's the emergency? Why today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u436	She's irrelevant to the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u437	Because you simply know that time is wasted, even today that we are talking about. Aren't you tracking the papers? Can't you see what's going on in public opinion? Don't you know that all of these are cases that need to be dealt with as soon as possible? I think you know that very well. And, of course, there is a glorious field for opposition to issues and I understand that. But here, I think it is an issue which does not leave any possibility to simply express the opposite opinion on a much-discussed issue in the Greek Parliament. On this occasion, then, there is another amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice, which is the last, and which, of course, concerns the issue of legal aid, which we had discussed and basically agreed on in most of the parties during the debate. I'm talking about legal aid in the mediation process. A second issue concerns the way in which teachers are selected at the National School of Judges, because this is also an urgent matter because the examination procedure is closed and will soon begin. The school should, in fact, be organised on specific selection criteria, which, in fact, are basically in the direction of the renewal of teaching staff, but of course also of course also of the ability to keep all lessons in the presence of the teachers concerned. This amendment is also tabled. Finally, I would like to say to the House that the title of the bill is obviously changed and the term 'and other provisions' is added.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Kamines has asked for the floor for a minute. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u439	I would just like to say, Mr President, that it is all right, I understand that it is even an amendment from the same Ministry. We have already expressed ourselves in this way because it was an entirely irrelevant amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u440	Okay. So we shall proceed as follows: Mr Kamine will speak now. Afterwards, the series is Mr. Xanthopoulou, Mr. Villiardos, Mr. Kotrorias, Mr. Giokas, Mr. Capatos, Mrs. Xenoyanakopoulou, Mr. Boutsikakis and Mr. Boubas. That's how we close the speeches. The Minister of Justice is taking the floor, Mr. Tsiaras. Then, if either a special speaker or a rapporteur or a parliamentary representative - but clearly one of each party, not one and the other - wants to speak for three minutes on the amendments, he will speak. It will take five minutes later, the Minister's speech and close the procedure. I think we all agree. So Mr. Kamines has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u442	I'm sorry, but you need to get on the Stepma, because the speaking time is over seven minutes, so you need to get on the Step. I could read the Rules of Procedure, but I tell you that when the speech is up to seven minutes, the Member can speak from his position. From seven minutes or more you have to climb the Step, except when you get special permission due to a problem. Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, I have asked to speak because I have - and let me say this - a personal interest in the institution, because I have lent on two terms a Citizen's Counsel. The Citizens' Ombudsman, as his founding law, Law 2477/1997, is an institution of mediation between citizens and public services, legal persons governed by public law, Local Government agencies, etc. That is why the Citizens' Counsel is not competent when the case brought to it by the citizen is pending. The Citizens' Counsel has dealt with - I am now counting in the twenty years that it operates - with over two hundred thousand cases. I'm likely to say a few. It's an institution that proved its usefulness. He has also managed to help them, so that they do not go to the courts to undergo the expenses and the mental trial involving every court conflict and the courts to alleviate the burden of many cases. However, the Citizens' Counsel eventually reveals that it also covers a gap, because it is mediated between private and public, and the bill explicitly excludes the cases in which the public is involved. I consider that to be a justified one, perhaps, but there is still a gap in the bill and I hope it is something temporary, Minister. The big problem in the country, the big patient is the public. It is the public's concern for the citizens, as well as for the judicial authority with its bureaucracy and its slickness, because it often leads the desperate citizen to court, and it could well not have even created the problem. I'll tell you a case since I was a Citizen's Counselor. People came because, for example, a municipality had not trimmed the tree - they are cases that I found later as mayor - the branch fell, destroyed man's car, went to the municipality to receive compensation, refused it, came to the Citizen's Counselor and put us in front of an opinion of the Court of Auditors, which banned the municipalities and the public in general, if it did not exhaust all degrees of jurisdiction. He may have had a thousand trials, but he was forced - and for years he was condemned - to exhaust all levels of justice. However, there is also an additional reason why we need to establish - and as soon as possible - mediation and cases where the public is involved. It is a reason for the national economy and the development of the country. I do not think that we will have serious businesses that will come to invest in Greece with serious investments, which will have a serious added value in the national economy, if they know that if they get involved in the courts with the Greek State they will, perhaps, even in the decades in the open court. It is therefore also a further reason for the mediation to be introduced in the cases relating to public administration. I think it is an institution that we must leave it in the hands of non-legislative. I have heard here that it is bad, for example, to have a degree in Psychology or any other degree and cannot mediate. Mediation requires primarily skills and, I would say, because it was heard having a degree in psychology, yes, psychological skills, to be able to bring both parties to a compromise. Legal knowledge must exist, as long as it is elementary. As Citizens' Counselor in 2005, I had gone to the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, there were already - it is a small country, like us - four thousand ombudsmen who were mediating in all sectors of law. In fact, there was also a court's responsibility to send the case to mediation. Of course, because we need to surround the institution with prestige and inspire all the societies of law to resort to mediation, we need to demand high qualifications from the ombudsmen and very strict conditions, both for the examination process and for those bodies that will draw up ombudsmen. I agree with those who have stressed this exactly. I want to wish this bill, Minister, which will soon be the law, to be a good-for-nothing bill. It will help as few bills as our country. Why? Because the question of the slowness of justice has, as I have said, economic implications and also excessive burdens on the public administration itself. I saw, as a mayor, how far behind our work was due to the fact that too many cases were pending in the courts, and that is why the Greek public institution should be sacrificed to make it public as much as it can on television and anywhere else. It saves us money, saves us the trouble, but, above all, in the long term in this society, which is a conflicting society, it will finally cultivate the attitude that compromise is nothing wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 3rd Volos High School (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, MEP Kozanis Mr Constantinidis has tabled a parliamentary amendment - I do not know if you know it - and in fact it is about imposing a judicial mark on a number of cases that is now not enforced. Of course, it does not have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State because, in the opinion of the Member, it has a positive financial effect, but there may be another view. I don't know if you're accepting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u445	I will see it and tell you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u446	Well, you see her and you tell us. Mr. Xanthopoulou finally has the floor, and then Mr. Villardos follows. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a proposal for a law, which essentially touches on pathogens of Greek society and comes to cure a culture of many years and we hope that it will create a new culture of conflicts in the country and that is why we must be very careful. I firmly believe that, with the introduction of this procedure, we are actually removing from the hard core of the state a section, which is the administration of justice. And, of course, we may be talking today about civil-type differences, but it remains justice and touches the hard core of the state, because also in civil-type disputes, the decisions adopted are enforceable and the public dimension of the state helps to implement them. We must keep this in mind to see how this process can best be shielded and not degenerate and collapsed. That's the first. Let's go to the second: I'm very concerned about the unlimited freedom you give training providers. I understand the majority's ideological choice - the market will solve the problems in its view - but I very much fear that, if very strict standards and conditions are not laid down, we will end up having an IEK of ombudsmen, which will irreversibly affect both the process and the quality of mediation. I imagine that none of us, although we have our reservations, wants to move on to an ombudsman-producer-producer-producer-producer-led ecotechnic, but not the qualities. That for us, where we legislate, is a matter of crucial responsibility and we have to deal with it. I also see that the associations of ombudsmen also acquire legal personality for them, precisely because they will actually be a group of interests, they must apply rules and indeed strict rules. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] It has already been said by my colleague, Mr SYRIZA, that the Code of Lawyers should, for example, apply to the advertising section. I think it is incomprehensible for an entity, which assigns public authority, to manage it in such a way as to be a trade transaction. We need to look at these things very carefully because we have the experience of successive failures, of voluntary and agreed dispute settlement, either in accordance with Article 214A of the Code of Civil Procedure, which has collapsed and did not offer either prior attempts. I welcome and agree with the amendment on legal aid, Minister. It's something that honors you and all of us. The Special Register of Ombudsmen will be a tool in which the process of mediation can function in this respect, and I think it is a crucial issue, because - badly lies - a large part of the parties make use of legal aid both in civil and criminal matters. So we also have to be very careful in this part, because these citizens are not second-class citizens. They are citizens who are economical and cannot afford to face up to a legal conflict. I would like to ask you something, Minister: you have made a serious effort to have fun with our concerns about the amendment relating to the presidents of this year. So, if you were committed to proclaiming the positions, and we really welcome them and honour the Minister's word, because we consider it to be the case. Why, then, at the same time, did we not do this violent intervention in the body, in the pyramid of justice by calling for positions, so that problems do not arise in the functioning of the courts?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u448	You know that well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u449	Good. That's right. We have a starting point of disagreement, I say. I was a lawyer at the Court of Appeal in Thrace, which is an extremely charged appeal, on the one hand, because it is far from the centers, on the other hand because it has a large number of cases relating to the violation of the country's borders, and I am sincerely concerned about the deforestation of the positions of the seven-year-olds and the promotion of presidents. Finally, Minister, allow me a ton of staff. I'm thirty-five years of lawyer. I was a nine-year-old president of the Drama Bar Association. I would like to tell you that without the consent, inspiration and support of lawyers, this will not pass. I therefore think that we should come to a colloquium with the lawyers, together with the framework, and that is why I insist on this: increase, as a sign of good will, the sum of EUR 40 000 to show the legal body that we accept their views, that we consider them to be allies in the process of documenting and actually operating this new institution, and we hope that together, the State, the Ministry of Justice and the lawyers will be able to form a new culture that will enable the conciliation process to flourish in the winter society of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u451	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u452	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u453	It is a legislative improvement which responds to the just one of the step-in-commanders, dear fellow Member. We already announced it. It is, of course, about the fact that when the value of the difference exceeds thirty thousand, then it goes into the mediation process. I think that with this step we have indeed shown the true good intention to the body of lawyers, but above all we show that the government is trying to formulate the best possible draft law. Finally, I would like to stress that obviously the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice, that is to say, the amendment with a general number 99 and a special 7 on the legal aid we said earlier, is obviously advanced by the other amendments, as was the case earlier by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u455	For the parliamentary amendments, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u456	I'll put myself in total. We're waiting for one more thing you know from the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u457	We have testified for one, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u458	Yeah. Once I've seen them, Mr. Loverdo, and I'll answer the whole question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u459	Madam President, I would like to speak for very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u460	Is there anything about what the Minister said? You have the floor for ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u461	Minister, I agree with what you are saying, but I will remind you that the enemy of goodness is the best. I insist, in other words, that such a gesture of forty thousand give the signal of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u462	We did it the best possible way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u463	Madam President, because I will miss a flight...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u464	Come on, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor now, because you're leaving, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u465	Thank you. Minister, I address you. We had argued in the debate on criminal codes on the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure with very strong arguments for a brave initiative that you had taken in facilitating the work of corruption prosecutors and financial prosecutors. In the final version of the text as it emerged, there are some issues of precise interpretation, which we want to resolve with today's amendment, which we are tabling six colleagues from the Change Movement. Please take a closer look at this. There are too many cases where people feel insecure when things happen next to them, especially parents. The focus of our own effort is on parents and offences against sexual freedom. So there are too many times when a family who has victims of her children cannot protect them while it can. I ask you to see it with humanity, but also with the inefficiency you have as a politician and to accept our amendment. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u466	Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that creditors through the government want to ensure with today's bill the following: firstly, that the problem of red loans by banks, the public and its institutions is solved through the rapid confiscation of private property without the barrier of justice. Secondly, companies that will take over at degrading prices or which will establish full immunity for their Greek workers - and not only - who will become cheap debt slaves. Thirdly, to completely dismantle the rule of law on the grounds of the decongestion of the courts, recalling that justice has always been blamed by the Troika as a problem that makes Greece unattractive investment. More specifically, with the consultation bill, the government wants to adopt a model that has worked abroad and has now been overshadowed. Generally speaking, it seems to be making legislation in the drawers of ministries or creditors, with the aim of persuading them to produce a project. In particular, the matter of consultation was initiated in the United States with a view to dismantling the courtrooms. At first it was intended to resolve simple business disputes so that they did not end up in the courts. It was, however, slowly extended to all kinds of commercial differences, such as sales of products and services. Finally, as we will analyse below, it had very bad side effects on labour relations. Although consultation has now created several problems on consumer and labour issues, the negative is not the same, but the fact that it can be de facto compulsory. In this regard, even if it is possible for a private person not to sign a service contract, which is subject to mandatory consultation, it may either not know it or not know exactly what it means or take pressure to sign it. For example, the company that wants to work in the recruitment process should make it a prerequisite. In a country with high unemployment, as well as in conditions of exploitation of workers by employers, it is easy to impose compulsory consultation by enterprises as a condition of recruitment. In this case, if the employee refuses to sign a contract of recruitment which presupposes consultation, it is not only the danger of being recruited, but also of being threatened with being placed on the blacklist, so that it is not easy to work in another company that respects that list. Automatically, then, his ability to find a job is being drastically restricted. So he's actually having to sign a contract of this kind. In the example of America, in which experience exists, the main problem created by consultation or the main advantage, whichever is the case, is the confidentiality, which is also provided for in the current bill in Article 5.5. Confidentiality may be desirable from both parties, but it is usually more desirable than from the place that has something to hide. Example: A business that claims in its ads to be the fairest or best to deal with, but in fact it is the opposite. This company adopts the confidential consultation, in which case its potential customers or its employees never learn its specific problems. Even if she loses the extrajudicial dispute, her other potential prosecutors do not learn the arguments that could guarantee them a similar victory, since the consultation minutes are never published. That is precisely why, and not just, the signing of contracts which include consultation in the United States was gradually extended until it finally became compulsory. For example, while only 2% of workers in 1992 signed contracts in consultation, the rate was set at 60% on the American private sector average in 2015. I will submit to the Minutes the first page of a detailed study, which confirms it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Over the years, many defendants, but also the social group, have found that the consultation has finally evolved into a means of exploiting them, especially by large companies, as regards abusive terms in credit cards, labour contracts, etc. However, society then reacted, so the companies could not maintain the mandatory consultation as much as they wanted, while one of the first companies that resigned from such contracts was GOOGLE in 2018. This has helped to change the legislation with the recent adoption of a provision with the name - in free translation - 'an order to abolish the injustice of compulsory consultation', which is not only about labour issues, but also about consumer, competition and trade conflicts. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Viliardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the basis of the above, the deposit of such a bill in Greece, when it has already been tried abroad and has failed miserably, is the least unacceptable. It is of course understandable that the domestic and international business interests, which the current government serves, want to do so in order to further impoverish the Greeks in the debt colony, the Constitution of which they are constantly trespassing on the memorials they have imposed, but there must be limits somewhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it is, in fact, a subtle private justice system or the privatisation of justice gradually, especially through the use of ombudsmen, who in the United States are lawyers and not anyone, as the government wants to do with today's bill. For a better understanding of this issue, I would like to point out that ombudsmen usually depend on large businesses, so they usually serve their own interests. I would mention as an example a bank that sues borrowers, which in Greece is only four large banks and thousands of borrowers. Even if it is accidental to choose the ombudsman, if anyone does not like the four banks, it will simply not be chosen. So, he'll do whatever he can to like them, actually no matter what he does for borrowers, if not trap them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We had some proposals to make for the bill, but unfortunately my time was over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kotrias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u469	Many times with high costs and long-term delays the Contracting Parties find that they spend more money even on the amount of their claim. The legal system and environment rather slows down the resolution of disputes and society within the crisis and economic poverty calls for a new alternative to the efficient resolution of disputes. This social requirement has come to cover mediation, a process in which the independent ombudsman helps the parties to achieve a mutually satisfactory solution. It is a civilised, realistic and flexible process, which is already in place in Europe and the United States, where, as the American Arbitration Union says, 85% of cases are being solved. If this process is embraced by the legal and entrepreneurial world, its benefits will be recognised and a modern effective tool for urban differences will undoubtedly be made in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have just read to you is an older greeting, a few years ago, which I made as mayor at a conference on the dissemination of the institution and the procedures of mediation, when it was still an optional institution and a voluntary procedure, but for which the Greek society I think it was never sufficiently informed and perhaps this is an important reason for the fact that until now it does not have the scope we expected. Today, with the resolution of the bill entitled "Measure in civil and commercial matters...", practically answers are given: firstly, all the reasons for the fact that some of the provisions of the previous law were considered unconstitutional, secondly, to the other reasons for not allowing mediation to be established as the prevailing alternative way of resolving disputes, such as in other European countries. Starting in 2008 as a Community directive, 2010 is introduced by law as optional and 2018 is voted as a mandatory institution by Law 4512/2018. Mediation as an alternative way of resolving disputes is obviously not a form of court and offers four things. Firstly, it shortens the time for disputes to be resolved. Let's think that you're on trial in six months, but with mediation you can start right away. Secondly, it dismantles the courts and tribunals and therefore helps to improve the administration of justice and indirectly upgrade the authority of the courts and judges. Thirdly, it costs less, burdening the parties with much less money. Fourthly, it creates a culture of understanding. That is why the first meeting is required at least. If we have to point out something, I would say that the requirement relates to the first meeting, that the compulsory presence of legal persons ensures legal certainty, that the Ombudsman is not a judge, he is a qualified, trained neutral negotiator trying to find a solution to the time and money disputes, that there is always a possibility for the parties to negotiate through courts. Obviously, reservations and remarks have been made during the debate in the Committee on Public Administration. At the hearing I would point out that it was heard that lawyers do not want horizontal application, because they believe that this was the reason why the institution did not go ahead. Nevertheless, the representative of the Piraeus Bar Association said that "we do not believe mediation is a gravel of the law". Secondly, it has been said that there must be a code of conduct for certified ombudsmen and an audit of their education. Thirdly, that it must be supported by the legal world obviously. Fourthly, that it is a voluntary extrajudicial procedure, which has been successfully implemented in the Anglo-Saxon countries and in European countries such as neighbouring Italy, and it relieves the country's burdened judicial system, creating a new culture of settlement of urban differences. To conclude, and despite any reservations that have been made, following the thorough analysis and the debate that has taken place in the committee, I can say today that reservations and questions are being settled and answered, so that in a short time we can vote for a bill that modernises and upgrades our legal system for the benefit of all those involved in the administration of justice, but above all for the benefit of the citizens of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Giokas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law on mediation in civil and commercial matters is admittedly one of the most important bills in the field of justice that has been tabled in recent years. It is one of the most important bills, because it changes radically and we add that it changes in a negative direction, the way in which the justice of our country is handed over. The fact that it did not have the publicity and visibility it should have, on the basis of its importance, is that this bill is not available for bilateral or other conflicts, because this bill is an agreement, if not a match, and the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. The bill prepared this by SYRIZA from the previous government, was declared unconstitutional and the New Democracy restored it with minimal changes, keeping the substance of the unchanged. SYRIZA's plan only talked about compulsory mediation over a range of different areas. And the New Democracy's plan somehow limits the obligation to overcome the unconstitutionalism, it limits it to seemingly, as we will say below, but it increases the scale of the differences covered by mediation. The second reason why this bill did not have the necessary visibility was to do with the stance of the leadership of the legal clubs, who, at first, appeared supposedly militant against this bill, were resurrected, after entering a bazaar with the government for aspects of the bill, but they also left the substance of the bill in the ruthless. What's the bill? What are we talking about, actually? We are talking about the widest privatization of the way justice is awarded in the name of acceleration, with large victims of the people's classes in need of recourse to the courts, because the already precise administration of justice adds an extrajudicial procedure, a mandatory protagonist, which is both costly and opaque and, above all, - and this is the most important - creates a suffocating framework so that each time a weak part of a private dispute is resolved before all kinds of pressure and extortion. That's what we're talking about. In any event, these are private differences, in the majority of cases the two parties are almost never equal or equal. It is not equal, for example, to the employer and the worker, it is not equal to the bank and that the borrower who needed is neither equal to the spouse who practices domestic violence and the psychologically injured husband who seeks custody of children. The parity is typical. The real inequality stems from the unequal economic and social power of each party. Instead of this inequality that exists in practice, as far as possible, to be reduced in the course of appeals to the courts, this inequality is not only maintained but also strengthened, it is essentially brought to an end through the outlaws you are building under the cloak of mediation. What is the result of this assessment? Firstly, it follows from the application of this mandatory procedure to all disputes of the one-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-shopping court in the ordinary course and the majority of family differences with some exceptions. In short, there is a need for mediation in a wide range of private sectors. However, those differences that remain out of the originals will be able to join the mediation process once the law has been able to impose a mediation clause if the Contracting Parties agree. This is why the draft law of the government only seemingly restricts to what is compulsory, whereas in practice it allows for the mediation clause in almost all these disputes. Of course, this agreement will only formally be free because in most cases the weak parties will be forced to accept the mediation clause, for example in a labour contract or an insurance contract. Let's imagine a worker who needs to work. Is there ever a chance that this worker will reject the mediation clause? And is there ever a chance that this worker will not, in the context of mediation, become a victim of pressure and extortion in order to take a solution against him in order to avoid a timely and costly process? Of course not. We are therefore talking about a compulsory private procedure, which is subject to severe financial penalties. Where else does the problem of mediation arise? From the cost of the process. It is 50 euros in its initial phase and 80 euros per annum for the ombudsman, apart from the lawyer's reward, and not even the conclusion of an agreement is certain. We are therefore talking about a great cost that is to be paid to the people in need of recourse to justice. The problem also arises from the very nature of the procedure, since we are talking about a procedure without any guarantee, without any publicity - neither practical - nor any transparency which is not in itself open to dispute settlement proceedings. The principle of publicity is not something that is individual, something marginal, regional. It is a basic procedural principle which is not observed in this case. And where are we driving? We lead to what we see in American films. Such institutions have entered both the Criminal Code and the previous government and the current government. Finally, the classic nature of the mediation institution is clear if you see who has been calling for this institution over all these years and who will ultimately benefit. He was constantly asked by the Association of Greek Industrialists. He was asked by the Association of Insurance Companies, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Hellenic Association of Banks and other such charities, because they obviously have much to gain from this case. In fact, they have to win multiplely. Firstly, they have to gain from the mediation process themselves, precisely because these associations represent the strong part of a dispute. They represent employers, banks, insurance companies. Therefore, they are given a powerful weapon in an opaque process to win as much as they can against the weakest parties. Secondly, they have to win because they will open up a whole market, a completely new market with brokering companies, with providers of training and training for intermediaries from which some will buy. And one of the causes of confrontation with the lawyers that existed in the previous period was whether the legal clubs would have the monopoly of these training centres or whether this market would open even further. And thirdly, all this process of exile, poverty, staffing a large number of lawyers who cannot compete with these companies will move faster. In fact, we will be talking about multi-professional companies that will multiply and which will not even be obliged to use lawyers or legal graduates, but which will be sufficient for any graduate of higher education in terms of cheap labour. So we're not talking - because it sounded - about a new profession just. We are talking about a new very profitable market, from which certain groups will win. With a hammer, therefore, a lot of birds. In conclusion, the extension and strengthening of the mediation institution is against the popular strata that are forced to resort to justice. There is a huge risk of heterogeneous and painful agreements. It harms the interests of self-employed lawyers with low incomes, and with a fundamental objective, of course, mediation to be established as a basic form of justice. The justification that you are doing so to speed up our work is, in our view, pretext. And this is the result of the huge gaps in the organic positions of judges, the attack on employment rights, the lack of funding in the structures of justice, the deterioration of logistical infrastructures and so on. Of course, we are not talking about a policy - we have said it again - that has been launched by the New Democracy. It started in 2010 with PASOK. It was extended by Law 4512/2018 by SYRIZA. Today, New Democracy simply puts the cherry on the cake in this unacceptable institution. SYRIZA speaks of neoliberalism and in fact puts his signature on an institution which is intended precisely by this logic and, indeed, by the crucial right of recourse to justice. Does the current status of justice satisfy us? Does the speed for resolving disputes satisfy us? Of course not. However, this cannot be done by speeding up, in terms of infringement of rights. It cannot be done in terms of breaching basic procedural principles, as is done with the institution of mediation, nor, of course, under the terms of a very precise and inappropriate justice. The loopholes in judges, judicial officers, infrastructure can and must be covered. The use of new technologies in the administration of justice must go ahead and this third-world chaos must not be made, in fact, in the majority of the courts in our country. And think about the image in a short time: on the one hand, mediation companies with luxury offices and on the other hand, a misery, a third-world chaos with the dannas and all that we know is in the majority of our country's courts today. I shall conclude with the amendment. I will not say what has already been said. But why do you bring this amendment, without understanding, which creates a great frustration with regard to the judicial officers and the packets? The Minister's answer, in my opinion, was at least inaccurate. You say they are personal views of some members of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. First, there are three or four publications. It's eight out of fifteen. Eight of the fifteen members of the Board of Governors of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors have expressed their opposition to this amendment. So they're not individual opinions. They are eight in fifteen, i.e. the majority of the Board of Governors of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u472	Are these eight on the board?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u473	Of course, you can see on their site who they sign. It's eight out of fifteen. Secondly, there is a corresponding announcement from the Association of Prosecutors. And thirdly, you have said that you have been asked to do so yourself, and what you have been discussed is to increase organic positions. In particular, for the positions of the presidents of the year, the request is to increase the number of presidencies in the criminal courts, but not by abolishing, as is now the case. So the answers you have given to justify this amendment all suffer from very serious inaccuracy. So the question, why do you do it, remains at the table and you need to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has asked for the floor to be placed on the amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Madam President. I call for the floor in order to support the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 105 and a special number of 12, which has been distributed to this House. This amendment concerns the infamous OSTH and comes to correct the incredible SYRIZA genogram, namely Law 4482/2017 with which, in 2017, it became what has not been done in Europe, a state-run organisation. So, what do we do in a few words? In short, we are prolonging the transitional period. Because, ladies and gentlemen, while OSH was detained in 2017, since 2017 it should have become the new scheme to transfer the assets to the new organisation and to assess, for two years, the previous government has not done absolutely - but absolutely nothing. In fact, the liquidation of the OSH should have ended in June 2019. In other words, until June 30, 2019, PSYTH, the Urban Transports of Thessaloniki, which would be the successor of OSH, should have formed. Instead, what happened to be absolutely clear? It was decided to transfer the ball to the next government. It was therefore decided to pass this mine, this hot potato, on the next government, and at the moment on 3 December the deadline would be over. That is why the amendment is tabled so that we can finish with the liquidation and the procedures and finally allow for the urban transport of Thessaloniki to move in the right direction. More than a hundred buses have already been on the road. But the situation, and I want to be absolutely honest, remains tragic in Thessaloniki. We don't have a magic wand. We will get a hundred buses, with which we will transfer the transport project from the beginning of next year to the CCT. This will help the situation appreciably. We also need to be directly involved in a new tender for the purchase of new rolling stock, namely the purchase of new environmentally friendly buses. But that'll take at least eighteen months. So we are doing the things we need to take a step - step by step, and that is why we are tabling the amendment that is a step back to normality, not the regularity of SYRIZA, but the regularity of a Greek who wants to belong to a favoured European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Minister. Mr Capatos has the floor now from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u477	Until our colleague takes the step, I will reply very briefly to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u478	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u479	Since there are no questions on the part of colleagues on the part of the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, I would like to say that I accept the two ministerial amendments, as well as the two Members who have been tabled, with a general number of 103 and a special number of 10 and with a general level of 104 and a special number of 11. Of course, I repeat once again that after that, at the end of the title of the bill, the words 'and other provisions' are added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering my suggestion, I would like to express a difference in relation to the position of the previous speaker, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, who said that it should be practically observed in mediation and that there should be the principle of publicity. I have an opposite view. I do not think it is right that there should be publicity in mediation, because during and through mediation, each party, so that we have a successful conclusion, will remove some of its rights. If mediation fails, and there are practically, these will then be used in the courts and there are any bonds. I therefore believe that this is the reason why it is in favour of the parties to mediation and any parties to the courts, which should not be carried out in practice. I'm entering my suggestion. With the draft law on mediation in civil and commercial matters introduced in plenary, we are given the opportunity to develop overall the importance, utility and added value of this draft law. The form, of course, which the text we are dealing with today has been the result of an in-depth debate in the committee responsible, in which the voice of the representatives of the relevant bodies has also been taken seriously. It is therefore the procedure that has taken place so that before we vote we can be sure of the completeness of the text and the correctness of legislative intervention. That is precisely the content of the draft law we are discussing today. It is a bill intended to make mediation a credible, alternative method of accessing justice. It is a legal framework that is clear to its objectives and simple to the procedures it incorporates. How could it be different, since the main guidelines it adopts include both the decongestion of the courts and the facilitation of citizens? We are essentially talking about the adoption of a new culture of resolution of urban and commercial disputes, of an economic, confidential and non-discriminatory procedure which does not disrupt, but facilitates family relations, partnership and trade and the relationship of an employer. During this debate in the Committee on Civil Liberties, I mentioned the fact that in the Member States of the European Union where the mediation process is compulsory, there is a reduction in new actions before justice, as well as a significant decongestion of the courts. A reasonable question is therefore whether the introduction of a procedure into Greek legal culture is sufficient. Can an example of good legislation, in other words, prove equally effective in our case? The answer is clear. It can only be provided that it is accompanied by the necessary culture change in the way we deal with the differences between us. It can only be understood that this is a process of friendly and beneficial to individuals. It can only be understood as a conscious choice to resolve disputes and conflicts. It can only be realised that we are able, by means of a structured, concrete and clearly defined procedure, to strike a balance between the parties to the compromise. Finally, even in the event of a failure of the process, the parties will have gained the benefit resulting from their efforts to approach each other. We must not forget, of course, that we are talking about an area which, as a function, process and occupation, is still in an embryonic stage. We are thus given the opportunity, but also the obligation to explain to the citizens the importance of mediation and the many opportunities that it offers us. We give them all that range of information that will enable them to understand the usefulness of this new object and to do it gradually, but also systematically, their estate. Justice is a pillar of democracy and is recognized by Greek citizens as such. However, the difficulties incurred in delaying the adoption of decisions and the long-term duration of a case are pathogens which, at the 2020 threshold, are simply not allowed. With the mediation that we are legislating for today, we are putting an important stone in the effort to tackle these problems. From the field of domestic relations and the window of opportunity to protect children, up to the need to speed up the process of justice, it is up to us to make mediation a distinct choice for citizens. Mediation is the option to facilitate the normalization of interpersonal relations, family, social or professional. It is the solution to the need to harmonize us with European good practice. It is the process that responds to the practical, technical and constitutional issues that the previous legal regime has inherited us. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that we are answering in this bill are specific. What do we tell the citizens who ask us how to make their everyday lives easier? What alternative are we giving them to organize their lives better? How will our judges be dismantled from their huge volume of work? How can professionals make their work more effective? As a lawyer, a mediator and a member of the National Representation, I cannot ignore the fact that today we are talking about an ambitious intervention, a process capable of improving the day-to-day management of conflicts that social, professional and family life entails, for a new alternative to citizens, but which requires the adoption of a different culture in our legal culture. I am voting for the bill on intermediation of civil and commercial matters for all these reasons and for one more, in order to bring back the feeling that their legislative process is relevant and can only succeed if they embrace it by integrating the logic of mediation into their everyday lives. That must also be our goal from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u482	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The reason for Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou's speech is now from SYRIZA for 15 minutes, immediately after Mr. Boutsikakis from New Democracy, and we will close with Mr. Bouba from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law on an important institution, such as the institution of mediation. Minister, because you see your modesty and I know that in committee too - this is the echo of all the SYRIZA Members - a very substantial debate has taken place, I really think - and I speak frankly at the moment and with no opposition - that you are also unfair to your efforts and to the draft law with what we have been living here today, this controversy, to come up with amendments either from your ministry or from other ministries at the last minute. It's a pity, because the essence of your own legislation is finally lost. So, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but note that these flagrant slogans we heard from the new governance of the New Democracy after 7 July on a staffing state, on good legislature, on excellence, on all this, unfortunately, in every draft law which comes with every administrative act that comes out of the government's side and is also distorting the essence of words. Of course, it has become the final state, from the very beginning, with the first bill that has come, to be either the control of certain institutions and state services or the appointment of both day-to-day and poster and, indeed, by reducing qualifications themselves - we are no longer talking about excellence - we are talking about basic qualifications - or, of course, of course, a sloppyness that is forced to come after other laws to heal. And, unfortunately, Minister, some of these elements will also be highlighted in the draft law that we are debating today, but above all in the amendments that we are now being called upon to consider and vote on. And since, of course, we do not legislate in the vacancy, it is clear that the climax of the entire process of the state of staff and "excellence" was this craving that followed by the appointment of the hundreds of twelve commanders of hospitals, where the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy yesterday admitted an error with regard to the Governor of Karditsa. But I think we have a general problem here. In other words, the focus only on the commander of Karditsa is a little misleading, not to mention all the rest, on the former secretaries of the Grevenes, the Preveza and Artis and on a number of other issues. I think that this whole process and much more the way to deal with by government ministers... Minister, when we speak, with great respect, please listen to us. We're here to hear you and listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u484	I don't do anything different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u485	No, I'm talking about Mr. Karamanlis next to you. So, as far as Mr Voridis is concerned, I would expect, at least, that there would be a self-criticism or at least, as Mr Petsas tried, to justify unjustified justification. But when Mr. Vorides comes out and says cynical: “What were you waiting for? We want to know what foreigners mean in modern Greek democracy. Foreigners are supposed, according to Mr Voridis, to be the good-faithed citizens, scientists, the young children for whom you are so much tired. And I believe that you have good intentions with regard to Brain Drain and all this anxiety for those who have left abroad, who have good studies, who do not find work to exploit, to have merit. These are the foreigners, therefore, who did not just happen to serve the parties in the New Democracy. So I would say that you are judged, we are all judged - there is no one who exercises authority and is not judged - because we have seen more. Yesterday we had the PPC bill and we heard here that the workers' representatives were all collaborators and workers, in order to change the picture and the prism, in order not to talk about the abolition of labour rights, as well as a number of other interventions. So I come to the draft law. The truth, then, is that the institution of mediation is a modern institution. It has been successfully tested in too many countries and in America, of course in Europe too. There have also been numerous attempts with the 2010 law. However, there have been problems with implementation. The government of SYRIZA made a legislative change with the law of 2018, which weighed on the upgrading and autonomy of the Central Mediation Commission, on the connection, on the training of universities, in order for there to be - and there was also an anguish expressed by other colleagues - the corresponding level in terms of ombudsmen which is a category of free professionals. Like any such new category, we accept that it is important to operate, it must have very good training, it must have a very high level, there must also be regulations and rules on certification as well as on the whole process. So come today and legislate here, and I would like to ask you already: when SYRIZA received power in 2015, it was appointed - it was Mr Athanasios, if I am not mistaken, if I am not your position - the respective mediation committee. The SYRIZA government, which has been so easy all the previous years to blame for institutional intervention and partyisation, has not affected the committee. She left her term of office until 2018. And now, Minister, we would be interested to all of us to explain it to us in your speech because you are once again choosing, as has happened with a number of other, unfortunately, cases - to say the CITES, the Public Administration Inspector, the Competition Committee - to abolish it. That is, in any institution we want to change composition and faces, abolish it and bring in another provision. So what are you doing here? You remove a committee, which has already been in operation since 2018, in unsuspecting time, not elections as it was in 2015, and you bring a provision that makes it more controlled by the Ministry. That's what this is about. Where there were five judges, now there are more and more agents and you also have a representation from the ombudsmen. It's a matter here because you're making this change and where you think this will help you. At the same time, our rapporteur has mentioned very much - we have a reservation on this opening for the training of ombudsmen by individuals. We're scared. We fear that the examples of the past will be repeated from 2010 onwards with this industry in terms of training. I would remind you that in the 1990s, which were good times of Community funds, we lived with the great IEK and how easily this whole training industry became. I think you should be more glamorous and with much more guarantees about this function. The other legislative changes that you have made, and the limit of 30,000, and the other issues that other Members have raised by SYRIZA, are positive. We must recognise them. We're expensive. That is where we object. However, I come to the amendments and here, Minister, I have to say that we are very concerned and a pity. That's why I'm saying the bill is wrong. If you had tabled this big amendment to the committee, you would have given us a chance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u486	We filed her yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u487	I mean another one. If you had brought it during the Commission's debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u488	It was a matter of the General Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u489	Yeah. Let me just tell you what the problem is. We agree with too many of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u490	I had said all these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u491	I do not disagree, Minister, and I said that I appreciate you and know your modesty. I say, however, that you are compelled to vote against a body of amendments, where there are too many provisions, if they had entered the body of the draft law after the committee, we were most able to vote for them. And, because our rapporteur and Mr Lappas, and the other colleagues, first of all, have referred to the issue of penitentiary, you are now being forced to reorientate. We're positive to what you're doing. But it is the complete confession of what we, too, have told you since the first day that it was wrong that the penitentiary policy went from the Ministry of Justice, which is its natural political and scientific site, to the Ministry of Civil Protection. You're trying now and we can't stand against it. It is simply the determination of the haste that appeared in the first days of government. But there, Minister, we have a very serious problem - and I think the other opposition parties have said so - is the story with the presidents of this year. I would remind you that there was an act of legislation on the previous Minister of Government SYRIZA, Mr Kaloger, which created eighty-five organic posts in the year. And today you are abolishing these organic positions - that is, you do not actually confirm them - and you come to create, to set up eighty-six seats of presidents. We have all explained to you why we have taken the floor that this does not make sense. The arguments you told us did not convince us. In other words, the need here is for there to be the fighting judges, the sittings and much more so at the moment when an attempt is being made to speed up and dismantle justice with the bill you have brought. I fear, Minister, that even if you do not wish to do so, your interpretation is that it is photographic, that it is intended somewhere, whether it is because some would go to retirement or something else is hidden. In any case, just where suspicion is caused to us means that here you have a problem with the legislature. A lot more you can't convince us when he said you'd get a quick call for abortion. The question is why are you abolishing the eighty-five organic positions of the perpetrators that the previous government had already launched with the legislative act? Why don't you enact them and come and say 'I'll bring them later'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u492	So if we confirm it, would your attitude be positive?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u493	You should confirm it by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u494	But it's gonna happen, I assure you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u495	Yeah, why don't you do it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u496	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u497	Yes, Minister, that's why we're here, answer us. We're trying to be good-for-nothing. They are just a few issues which - in the way - give us the impression that a photographic device is hidden and, on the other hand, we do not understand why the confirmation of these eighty-five positions is not now being made, but is being referred back to the future. Mr Stavros spoke to us about the Securities and Markets Committee. Our reaction is that so serious issues that have the form of urgency cannot come in this way. It is also a matter of our responsibility to put us in these amendments. It's not opposition to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and you are concerned about this. It's only natural that you trust what the government brings. Believe me, however, that when serious amendments of this kind come and when the picture is given today, we must at least have the information on these issues and certainly also go to the relevant committees, much more so that the Committee on Economic Affairs meets tomorrow. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we support the mediation institution. We have a different position on some of the openings that we feel need not be done and are not done in a balanced way, which we fear can weaken the functioning of the whole institution. We believe it is positive that you have accepted the compulsory presence of a lawyer, at least at the beginning of the procedure. This is also a safeguard with regard to the parties. In too many of the provisions we will support you. Unfortunately, as far as the amendment is concerned - and I close with it, because our rapporteur will also speak more in detail - the provision you have primarily for the presidents of this year makes us sceptical and cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u499	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be a little more careful and finally stop the mudology that has been started for two, three days, because I think there are people in your party who are the definition of rosyphotological appointment either as members of the previous government or anything else that concerns all of the parties that were this slogan that ruled at that time. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Also, let us not forget that even here in the temple of democracy you elected MPs who are eighty years old and over, who would do well not to blame them on the basis of age and not to use them for any reason and to burn them down. As far as the bill is concerned, the mediation institution has been working successfully around the world for decades. It contributes significantly to the rapid out-of-court settlement of civil and commercial matters. The advantages of mediation are many: it enables the parties to balance their interests and find commonly accepted solutions. The procedure shall be carried out within a shorter period of time at a financial cost, escaping the suffering of long-term and long-term judicial struggles, escaping the consequences of the outcome of a trial which may not satisfy either party. And, of course, the more the cases that are resolved out-of-court so much reduce the cases pending in the courts. This also fully responds to the time-consuming demand for speeding up the administration of justice. Simplifying, improving and speeding up the resolution of urban and commercial differences strengthens economic trade, contributes to attracting investment, encourages entrepreneurship, promotes growth as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, since I started working on my common priorities, it is to contribute to progress and development. The region that I have the honour to represent, Piraeus and the islands, needs a dynamic investment programme to create many stable and well-paid jobs. However, throughout the past period, whenever I spoke with entrepreneurs to promote new projects and programmes, there were often reservations and concerns. One of the most serious reasons for the failure to develop new business was delays in the administration of justice. By applying mediation in practice, the benefits of enterprises will be multiple. Intermediation is the most appropriate institution for normalising situations, where the parties involved may have a different perception, without anyone's fairness or wrongdoing, and most of all when there is expectation and future cooperation, so it is in the interests of both parties to avoid disputes. The draft law we are voting on today is necessary for too many reasons. With the initial incorporation of the European Mediation Directive in 2010, the legislator, hesitant in taking effective measures, has made it difficult to move it forward. That is why, after more than eight years, there has been no culture of out-of-court settlement of cases, hence the number of mediation that remains too low. Since 2018, the legislator has been reinstated and provided for the phase of compulsory submission of certain disputes in the mediation process. However, this law has never been implemented in practice because, on the one hand, its power has been suspended and, on the other hand, its provisions on compulsoryity, as they were stated, were found to be unconstitutional by the administrative plenary session of the Ice Bay. And the Court of Justice of the European Union recently came to judge several of the limitations of the relevant legislation as being contrary to European law. Ladies and gentlemen, all these issues must be dealt with in order to resolve the practical and technical issues of the previous laws, in order to obtain a modern legal framework in accordance with the decisions of the Ice Bay and the Court of Justice of the European Union and - most importantly - to strengthen citizens' confidence in the institution. Thus, the proposed draft law puts into effect a new integrated system for the application of mediation. We facilitate citizens' access to it, subject to certain categories of cases at a compulsory initial mediation session with specific guarantees, but also with clear penalties in case of circumvention of the procedure provided for. We ensure that if mediation does not result in a mutually acceptable solution, the parties will fully maintain the right to appeal to justice. We are setting the appropriate framework for ensuring a high level of training of ombudsmen. Already the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay unanimously delivered an opinion that the draft law is in line with the Constitution. This development, which even comes before the vote on the present, is very important, because we in the New Democracy above all believe in legitimacy. It is not enough that what we are doing is actually only right from a point of view. Everything we do must be in line with the Constitution. We must also respect the country's international obligations. This is how Greece will become a modern state. Institutions will thus work effectively without backwards, without the need for constant changes in legislation and post-respect for judicial decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not mean speeding up the administration of justice without dismantling the courts. And it does not mean decongestion of the courts, without dissemination and application of alternative forms of dispute settlement. For all these reasons, we must support the mediation institution. Today in Parliament, by voting on the bill, and tomorrow in society with the encouragement of citizens and businesses to start implementing it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, too. And we'll close the circle of speakers with Seraio Costa Bouba from Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many Members of Parliament and lawyers and I believe that your patronage will be more enhanced to support the science you have served and possibly serve in the future at the end of your term of office, but also those of you who serve it. Account against children today who have studied legal science. In this way, since the Ombudsman will not be legal, legal science is being neglected. Address the three Law Schools, the nursery of legal science, Mr. Minister, Athens, Aristotleou and Democritus Thrace, and tell the future of legal science in Greece: "We do not need you so much. You will go abroad, as do doctors, political engineers and other specialties!" It is unheard of that the Ombudsman is not legal! And I ask: is the ombudsman who needs to be trained to be a corollary and a psychologist, when the lawyer against him will be a lawyer, not trapped in a court case, with the articles and paragraphs? He must be convinced, he must be a peacemaker, he must be a fireman, but he must have legal knowledge. With a hundred hours of non-profit-making seminars - other NGOs here - as our President Velopoulos said - can be trained to deal with commercial and urban cases? Have you come into the etymology of the word "consultation"? It says: 'Ethnicity and unhelpful'. According to the Spanish model, it is up to the autonomous communities - Catalonia alone has put one cost, the rest are unfamiliar - to deal with and resolve issues of a commercial-private nature for borrowing. You are violating the Treaty of Istanbul, gentlemen - no Member of Parliament has said of it - who speaks of domestic violence. It started in Italy piloting. So how will you violate the Treaty of Istanbul, which was ratified in 2011 by all the lawyers? Who'll judge for a couple who'll go to mediation if he needs psychological support? The ombudsman, who may be, has nothing to do with professions, to God! - Veterinarian, geologist, architect, fisherman, and I don't know what else? The ombudsman is in a position - key. It's a neural position. It must calm down the spirits. It must build bridges of reconciliation, but not be trapped in articles and paragraphs. Do you know what you're doing? It hurts tooth, we cut head! Because justice with the impediment to judicial decisions could not serve the citizen, you have established this institution. That's as good as it is. It is a great deal of importance, however, for the New Democracy to press on with gas. Let us know that the road is rough. We also need to mock the brake. Has there been an open public consultation with lawyers, lawyers, students, teachers, to draw a conclusion? How are you going to mediation without the appropriate mediator, the man who joins to calm down the spirits and be the peacemaker, before going to a painful legal dispute and procedure, not to be a legal person? I was expecting you to support this from the legal Members. There's a saying that says, "Good Pedestrians, when you ride, so they can salute you when you get out!" So go and tell your colleagues and the new lawyers that you have not strongly supported it as legal! You don't want to safeguard your profession? Unprofitable in Spain. And I ask: is it possible for me, Minister, not to take into account those who disagree with the Association of Judges of Greece on Law 4512/2018 and on Article 182(2), which undermines the judiciary? A consultation, you know, will not take two hours of fifty or eighty euros. How can the 4512/2018 judged unconstitutional in its judgment of 34/2018 in the Ice Bay and within a few months, as the Union of Judges asks, be regarded as constitutional?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u502	Because we made changes. It's just stuff!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u503	Minister, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u504	The Court of Auditors has spoken of unconstitutionalism, that the mediation issue will put us into adventures, against costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u505	The Union of Judges gave a positive opinion on mediation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u506	I didn't talk about the entire Association of Judges, Minister. You didn't understand. I talked about the six voices that react. May I give you the names of the perpetrators with great pre-service? You know what they say? Where a person would pay EUR 2 000 for ten hours of consultation, you will cost EUR 1,600, that is to say a 20% discount. Am I? Let's see who says it. What are you saying? You took the unanimous decision on 31 July - I know very well - of the forty-three members, but there had to be consultation with seven judges, who have a great deal of experience and who react and put this to you, how much a mediation will cost you. Don't think the citizen's gonna pay 50 euros and clean up. If it was unprofitable, I'd accept it for the effort you're making. That's what they call sevens, I'm not saying it. It's what you're reading, what you've officially announced. Don't tell me that a unanimous decision was made! I am talking about the voices that are reacting, as are the Treaty of Istanbul, to domestic violence. In Spain domestic violence is not being discussed and, if discussed, it is being discussed without money. Make an institution with lawyers, not with other specialties. The legal person is the one who will help and be trained, because he will already have legal knowledge. Those who have studied in the Law School have chosen legal science not as a second choice school. You loved what you did, you put it on priority, so it's "Heverest" legal science in theoretical schools. So, should you not support legal science on a proper basis, for the person carrying out various cases for the benefit of the citizen? What are you going to do? Another because he has the gift of persuasion or because he has the gift to calm the spirits? The lawmaker will enrich his knowledge. I'm not saying she's going without a specialty. That's what I'm saying. That's why this is a sloppy one! Do you remember what you said about the diplomas? Because, he says, public services are understaffed, we're going to give them the opportunity to get diplomas and over-ages without... You do the same here. Because they're bankrupt judicial decisions, so there won't be an improper act in justice, you're making an institution with a clandestine hand in the face of mediation. It may be in accordance with the Community directive, but you must support your legal status. I've been expecting more from the lawyers at least. These children, who attend legal schools and have so many postgraduate supplies, where will they be absorbed? We already have jobless lawyers. They will go to the companies of 400 euros with 15 hours work a day, they will be trained by NGOs and non-profit organisations - if possible! - the ombudsmen and you tell me it will be the oasis and refuge of the citizen! Always take into account the voices that react through the judiciary. That's what I'm telling you. The unanimous decision may be a matter of moral order, but beyond that, there are also voices that you must listen to, because they have a great deal of judicial experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational sessions from the 2nd Tyrnavos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For specialist speakers and rapporteurs, I have been informed that you all want to speak. Is three minutes okay? Do you want to close it or do you want to do more? You, Minister, will speak at the end of 15 minutes. You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u508	Let them talk first and I'll talk at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u509	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u510	Give us at least four minutes. What should we start in three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u511	You've got the right 10 minutes, because what happened at the time of your speech, I was sad. You can talk as much as you like. I'll allow you to do that. Mr Couvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u512	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would take a positive look at the debate and the procedure as it has evolved so far and the position of colleagues from the SYRIZA and KINAL parties is rather positive. It is not wrong that you insist on specific proposals not in criticism, but on improving the institution of mediation. I would remind you that the institution will be constantly assessed and obviously improved on the basis of the results. This is all provided for in the legislation, introduced today. We agree with the need to monitor the operation of ombudsmen training centres. However, I think we all understand that the right to operate such centres cannot be restricted solely on the basis of what the public universities, legal associations and chambers of the country will establish. That sounded like SYRIZA's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u513	Why can't it be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u514	Not entirely. I do not think we should be concerned about the fact that there are mushrooms of such mediator training centres in every neighborhood and every village square. I don't think that's the issue. These are fears that belong, I think, to another time. After all, not all of the world, all scientists, all graduates will be quick to become ombudsmen, nor will they all think entrepreneurially about engaging in the training of candidate ombudsmen. The market will create the room for survival only for those who can actually achieve in their sector, whether as training providers or as intermediaries in the next day. And I do not think that you need to be redundant, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Solution, in the view that only lawyers should be mediators. Eventually, make up your mind and tell us. Do you only want the lawyers or does it bother you that lawyers are everywhere and are imposed on the others? In the end, I do not understand what the poet wants to say. With regard to the amendments - and I will end in my time, Mr President - which have been introduced by both the Minister and my fellow Members, I have just one comment, one comment. Finally, why the increase in the organic positions of the presidents of the country's three largest appeals, so that we return to the rule that we want the presidents of the past year to head the proceedings of the appeals, makes you impression? Why are you seeing conspiracy scenarios and with suspicion are you approaching this amendment, while it is simply an option to facilitate the rule, to work at the expense of the exception, which has tended to become a rule in recent years? As for the rest, they will also be regulated with newer organic positions, which will soon come through legislative intervention from the Ministry of Justice. I think there is no doubt at all. This was the climate that prevailed, which prevailed in the Chamber, that the present draft law, but also the amendments that were tabled and accompanying it, are in the right direction. It is necessary for the institution to start operating in practice, in fact, and on the way to see and wish to bring the results we expect. I would therefore urge everyone to vote in favour of both this draft law and the amendments accompanying it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u515	Thank you very much, Mr. Couvela. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos from SYRIZA. If you need more time, because I've seen complaints...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u516	Absolutely, Mr President. In my prototype, I didn't complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u517	I can see that. You spoke 14.16 minutes. There's nothing missing from the Secretariat here! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u519	You haven't finished, but you've covered your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u520	No, Mr. Comrade. I shall now be placed on the amendments. Minister, in the committee procedure, we had a very fruitful dialogue. We have exchanged views and we are happy and happy that a number of the points have been adopted in the final draft. Not all of them, but enough. We are now ruining the amendments. I'm going straight to the point. The first amendment to Article 5 creates a huge inconvenience in the judiciary. You put the judges in conflict. The provision, as you bring it, affects the service situation and development of the followers and first-timers. It's got a lot of consequences. There is a question of what will happen with the compositions of the appeals. It's very important. As our parliamentary representative has said, there was a legislative act of your predecessor, Mr Kaloger, which provided for the creation of eighty-five posts. You have not ratified this act of legislation and you are now coming, you are retiring eighty-fifths of the year and creating eighty-six seats of Presidents. And it is not only the President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, but they are also three members who have taken a similar notice, saying that this amendment has adverse effects on the service of judges and will cause serious service malfunctions in secondary courts and reflexes and in primary law. We also have the announcement from the Association of Prosecutors of Greece, which says it is a surprise statement, that there was no consultation, no dialogue, no consultation with the judges, and no consultation with the judges and in the medium and long term disrupting the constitutionally established service order and balance of justice. Have you read that? It's the Prosecutors' Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u521	I've read everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u522	And they say that the provision must be withdrawn and the necessary consultation must be held with the Ministry and their associations, so that we can have the best effect. And there is the question here, Minister. The code of the courts stipulates that the distribution of organic posts takes place every two years in June, except in exceptional cases. What's the emergency here? I think you're putting the cart in front of the horse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u523	But when will the process be over?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u524	Minister, you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u525	First we recommend the necessary posts for the year, and then we go to create the seats of Presidents of the year. That's the right order if we want to have a faster administration of justice. Because, Minister, this year's presidents are not charged with files. There will be a huge malfunction in the courts. We are therefore recommending the positions of this year, and then we are going to give the President-in-Office a seat. The issues and feelings are specific. Who is involved in this provision? What's number 83, 84, 85, 86? They're certain judges. Why are we doing this? This amendment must be withdrawn in any case. The entire judiciary is against this position. Also, in the document of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors in number 1 of the subjects sent to you on 30-7-2019 - it is the document you tabled, I have it here - it says: 'Increase the organic positions of judges and prosecutors by adopting the recent act of legislative content A/106/2019'. 27-06-2019 is this act of legislation. First of all, then, they say this and in number 7 they go and say that it will be possible to increase the number of Presidents this year. First, they say about the increase in the postures based on the MDG, and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u526	Well, it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u527	That's what the document you gave me, Minister. That's why I'm telling you. We move on, because time is limited. I would also like to say something about the question of the fourth article on mortgage guards. In Article 20(5) of Law 2145/1993 the retention by mortgage guards concerned a specific purpose, namely the improvement and modernisation of the working conditions of each mortgage and the introduction of a computerised system. That is what the article says, as it was, that you are now adding the provision. The mortgages had to give it up to the Treasury. That's what the Treasury says. There is the investigation procedure by both the Public Administration Inspector and criminal investigations on this matter, for the non-reimbursement of the excess amount to the public. So what do we got here? We have transformed a public income into taxable income, an amount which the mortgage guard has essentially managed, as a public accountant, and now only the excess has to be attributed to the public. And this provision has to be withdrawn. There is also an opinion of the Legal Council of State, which states that the remainder should be repaid by the mortgage guard to the public. It is the opinion of the Legal Board of the State 99/2017. Check it out again, Minister, please. As for the remaining amendments, for the National School of Judges, Minister, in this amendment you give the right to those judges - professors who have completed nine years of teaching, to extend the possibility of teaching. It should be clarified here that the qualifications of those who are young and who are interested in participating should not enter the previous service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If the service comes in, Minister, to those who are to renew, to those who teach and have closed nine years, if the service is a criterion for the position, you understand that the positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u528	It's because we might not find a teacher...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u529	I understand that, but it should be clarified here that the service will not be a criterion. Because if it is the pre-service criterion, no young person will take the place. Let this be clarified, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u530	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u531	The explanatory statement provides for renewal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u532	Minister, you're in a hurry, you're in a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u533	On the amendment of the Change Movement, changes in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure have recently been discussed. There is no reason to discuss the amendment today, and that is why we are voting against it. Also, on the issue of the payment of a judicial mark to actions in the polyolent, we are voting against a voter, tabled by Mr Constantinidis, has recently been corrected by a law of SYRIZA, three years ago and, of course, we are voting against it, because it will be a great burden for citizens to pay a judicial notice when the request has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u534	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u535	I'm not done, Mr. President. I'll be in the articles in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u536	There are many amendments. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u537	Many of the amendments, time is short. Anyway, the Minister is also in a hurry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u538	For the Securities Committee, Mr Stakoura's provision, he explained the reasons. We have no reason to be in favour of supervising the site. We will vote for it, we will be in favour. With regard to the OSTH of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Government of New Democracy created the problems and the issues that exist in OSH. Electionally you said it was illegal for OSH to be state-run. Now the question is: Why don't you clean him up? That's for S.H.I.E.L.D. to work. The PHYTH is also expected to operate the metro of Thessaloniki, i.e. in total the transportation of Thessaloniki. You come now, you dismantle S.H.I.E.L.D., you continue OSTH as a state, public body and, it turns out from the decisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the construction of the metro in Thessaloniki is referred to as the bells of the future. Mr Minister, we will not be able to vote on Rule 6 on the amount, under the authority of the compulsory session. We propose that it be at least 40,000, so that it can respond and there is no problem with the procedure. Also, in Article 18, for the remuneration of ombudsmen, tax incentives should also be given for entering the compulsory session, which will reduce costs for the citizen as well. We have proposed that the provisions of the electoral compensation should be applied on a pro rata basis so as not to pay VAT, since, in fact, the ombudsman exercises public authority. In Article 20, for associations of persons, I referred in detail beforehand. We will not vote for this either, because strict rules are needed to ensure the quality and validity of the procedure, that the provisions on legal companies are applied accordingly, so that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u539	And you're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u540	Soon, Mr President. In Article 22, for training providers, we say no to open up to individuals. I would point out here that in European legislation, Article 15(3) of the Community directive provides that, for reasons of public interest, the Member State may be exempted from legislation specifically. We can therefore invoke public interest, not to open up training bodies to private individuals, because here, with compulsory mediation, with the compulsory initial session, they exercise public power. We can therefore, for reasons of public interest, not open up on the basis of the Community directive. Finally, because they do not enter strict criteria for the establishment of training providers, we also vote against Articles 23, 24 and 25, as well as the last article on the start of application...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u541	It'll be in the vote, Mr. Kalamatiano. You've already spoken for eleven minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u542	Good, Mr. President. I just want to mention the articles to be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u543	Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u544	Minister, for the bill, we were clearly placed. You can understand that, once our proposals for changes to the articles we have said, namely training bodies, for natural persons, for all that we have stressed, cannot be voted on by the Change Movement. From there on, we should go a little further into the amendments, which are not very few, Minister. I fear that, at the end of the day, the hui is not cut overall for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u545	The amendments were accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u546	No, for the whole, I mean, because I will remind you that, when you were in opposition, Mr. Minister, Mr. Tsiara, you were sceptically condemning SYRIZA's tactics and logic to bring dozens of amendments. Let us accept the amendments relating to the Ministry. But what about the amendments that are irrelevant to the Ministry? There's a lot of them. When the time comes, I'll talk to you about these. This is a question of poor legacy. You know that. I'm sure you understand that and you understand it. But I wonder how you have created a Special General Secretariat for good legislature and at the same time on bills, you stick to five - six last-minute amendments. This thing can no longer go on! We must now go and put ourselves here for these amendments. On the subject of the amendments you have put forward, Mr Chiara, of course, there needs to be a recast on the question of how the Harita Council works. Of course, we really need to see the terms and possibilities - as soon as it comes back to the Ministry of Justice - of the function for the 'Home of the Child'. Of course, there must be regulation on the general loose end for the mortgages and we will agree that, to the extent that we really want the appeals and criminal departments to function better, there must be the necessary changes and regulations to be made to enable the system to function. So we stand positive. As far as the matter of the National Judicial School is concerned, in the next amendment, it certainly needs qualifications or the renewal of the persons to be made. Yes, there is also a need for regulation over there, for there to be a wide-ranging renewal of the executive capacity in the School of Judges. I would now like to come to the amendment from the Ministry of Finance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. This amendment comes to settle an issue on which we, Minister, have already raised this issue since the previous parliamentary term. So the government is coming to solve it. On the substance, I have to say that we fully agree with this regulation on the right to cease the administrations of listed companies by the Securities and Market Committee. But, Minister, Mr Chiara, I wonder about this: the tax bill is coming to Parliament tomorrow. There could be a wide-ranging consultation, and the Securities and Markets Committee should also be placed in the House. So, what is this whole bias, since it could have been appropriate to include this amendment into the relevant bill of the Ministry of Finance and to have a wide-ranging debate, consultation and the market committee also heard there? Don't you understand that this is an exemplary example of a misdemeanor? We agree with the substance. But the procedure is completely wrong. As regards the amendment - including Mr Constantinidis - so I think - look, Minister, it is unacceptable to reinstate regulations which have been abolished without any prior consultation. You understand how far this goes against logic. In other words, we are trying to reach a wide-ranging consensus with the legal world and you are literally coming to nothing but five things which have been abolished, after attempting and fighting, restored in such a simple way. It's totally unacceptable! It is a spiralling measure, Minister, on the back of the Greek citizens who want to go to justice. It's wrong, and you have to withdraw it. We're across the street. Furthermore, even more tragic mistakes, which effectively undermines the very institution of mediation that we want here to promote and achieve, are the incredible failure in the explanatory statement, which essentially links the judiciary and its return as a dowry for the institution of mediation. We have fought so hard to get this thing to come consensually and to allow the legal world to hug it! Is it possible to mention these things in the explanatory statement? It's completely inappropriate and you need to see it again. As far as our amendment is concerned, I think that Mr Loverdos was absolutely illegitimate that in this way we are resolving the hands of the prosecutor of corruption and of the financial prosecutor, since for crimes involving either extortion or affecting sexual freedom there will be an illegal use of possessed telecommunications material. I think that this is something which, in any case, also applied to SYRIZA governance, has been in force for four years and towards the end of SYRIZA's term of office has finally been revoked. I think it's something that needs to come back. That is our position on the amendments. We ask you to see the issues we have highlighted again because, unfortunately, I fear that they achieve exactly the opposite goal of what we want to achieve by embrace and achieve the institution of mediation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u547	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Konnaka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk from here. But I don't know if I'll stay in my time. I've also got a cava in my morning position. First of all, I would like to refer to what our Parliamentary spokesman has said, which, in my opinion, did not answer, namely the question of how this bill actually opens the doors wide open to the privatisation of justice. Even this very reasoning used by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, as I think, is set out in Article 5 of the Constitution for the Freedom of Development of Personality and the Freedom of Contracts, in itself, shows that there is no link between freedom of development of personality and the freedom of contracts with the award of justice, which is primarily a matter of the State and a question of public interest. In no case do we think that independence, impartiality, is guaranteed by these regulations. You're opening dangerous roads. I do not want to repeat the issues I raised in my position. However, I do not think it has been answered. All New Democracy speakers have tried to point out that this is allegedly an optional institution and that the Ombudsman has no evidence of the judge. I believe that life itself has rejected it, and the judges' crisis, which have been placed in the face of these issues, has rejected it. Mr Minister, I really do not want to go any further on the issues of the main bill, because we are not really making it to you. There's a storm in the law. As far as five are concerned, there are'muth' amendments. So, is that possible? Almost a whole piece of legislation is the amendment that comes up for OSH. An issue that has been arousing the whole of the people of Thessaloniki for so many years, and that is something that has not even been discussed in the relevant committees. Not even for the eyes of the world has the amendment been here this morning, so that it can be studied and able to be put in its entirety and as a whole. The way you choose is really unacceptable. I think all the fairy tales are going for good law-making. After all, it is not a new project. We've seen it many times. We denounce this choice of you, and especially for this amendment, which we think does not cover even the matter of the time limit, because the deadline you knew it did not come out today, even at the five hours that the amendment was tabled. You have had all the time to put the amendment - and even such an amendment - to debate. We will not even participate in the vote in this amendment. Now, it really makes me a terrible illusion, too, to the Member of the New Democracy - I will be allowed to express himself - that he is entering as a lame person to table an amendment of this kind, which is even more burdening on access to justice. It's really unacceptable. We were given that this amendment would not be accepted and we were surprised, when such an issue has been rejected multiplely by the world of justice. It is still burdening a huge burden on the backs of people who fight and want to claim their rights in the courts, instead of reducing them. We have had so much debate here on the cost and burden of justice and, instead of lightening up, you are still putting an end to this, that is, the judicial mark in recognizing actions, and indeed with retroactive effect. This amendment is really unacceptable. We ask you to withdraw it. Yes, what can we talk about now? Should we discuss the fact that in the explanatory statement it puts the unacceptable expression that it is being used to combat bicommunism? In other words, will a piece of legislation come out of Parliament that will be accepted and we will say in the explanatory statement that we are fighting bicommunican?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u549	Bicommunication is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u550	You are sending them to individuals and now to exclude them from any access they have to claim and ensure their rights! It's, really, at least annoying. We're not talking about it. We have had a debate this morning on a series of regulations in the main amendment of the Ministry of Justice, which has not been discussed and which has renounced the legal world, on these issues for the Presidents of the year. You're not really answering. If you wanted to defend here that there is nothing wrong with such a choice, the reaction of your judiciary is disgusting. If it were indeed a requirement in the knowledge of the judges, there was no reason to have such a reaction. You leave many questions about what you want to pursue and who you want to serve. Of course, in any case, the problem of the recycling of the subselling remains. You do not solve any question and you do not convince anyone that you are going to resolve the issue of subsistence by abolishing the positions of the perpetrators by replacing them with the positions of President-in-Office, as it is known that the matter and the work will be borne by the people themselves. There were also other requests in the document itself and, of course, of the feudal judges, who were not at the same time to bring them into law. On the other hand, there are other arrangements in this amendment which we consider positive and we would have no objection to voting, such as 'The House of Children's House' and the issues of the curator of minors, etc. However, you understand that in the way such amendments come, we are not allowed to vote on them, together with this article that you are abolishing the positions of the seven-year-olds and replacing them with the presidents of the seven-year-olds in this way. I would like to make a point about the FIFG issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u551	And that's it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u552	I shall conclude, Mr President, with two points. The first concerns the FTL. Firstly, we regard it as positive and indeed need to pay the funds for the costs needed for the courts, but I would like to point out, not for this regulation itself, but that there is a systematic misuse of this lack of formal errors in the orders from the FIFG, in order to reduce the necessary benefits for the essential needs of the courts. I tell you this because the Athens Court of Appeal has recently dealt with issues such as, for example, an essential resource for the repair of lifts, which it had to do with the safety of the public. And we are not discussing the situation of the courts in the province and elsewhere. Today the judges ask the Bar Association to cover this expenditure. We believe that this kind of pretext in relation to the local deficiencies of the mandates creates further barriers to the need to meet needs. Just one word about the amendment tabled by colleagues from KINAL: I really do not understand what the reason for a few days after the debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure is for such an amendment to come. First of all, we're talking about the Prosecutor of Economic Crimes and you're putting the issues of genetic corruption ahead. I like that. However, the essential and dangerous thing, which we have pointed out during the debate on the penal codes, is that it is unacceptable and generalised. In fact, here you want it to be excluded from the divergence between telephone secrets, and before the corruption prosecutor was bound by professional and telephone secrets. You ask for this exception too, opening dangerous roads and even in a way that you generally do in all cases of felony. Of course we will vote against it. We ask that it be withdrawn even when the possibility of using illegally obtained means of proof has already been legislated. You're asking us a very serious question about where you're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u553	Thank you very much. Mr. Antonios Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we won't get too tired of you, because we've been saying the same thing since morning. The Greek Solution - we have said it many times - has had certain positions from the outset and from the committees. Its positions were that we will not vote on Article 6 - and that is for sure - in terms of compulsoryity, the qualifications of ombudsmen and certain other articles that we will not vote on. Mr Kouvella, who asked us what we want, I would like to say to him that what the Greek Solution does is a serious opposition, with evidence. Mr Kouvella, we have said from the outset that we did not want two - three things. Now you insist and say more. We shall now proceed to the amendments. Sit down and listen, it's good, because it shows you're a fighter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u555	Maybe she's applauded!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u556	Let's go to the amendment. It does not change this evil with the amendments. It was right that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou who gave you an instruction and said that they would come at least during the committees, so that our partners could also process them. As far as the amendments are concerned, we shall be voting for Amendment 94, although on some points they are outside, in our view, particularly in the case of the crime and cooperation of the Ministry of Justice, which I have before me. In Amendment No 91 on legal aid, we certainly say 'yes'. I shall also refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Infrastructure - which is not yours - by Mr Karamanlis. Of course, the Minister has left, but we want to ask what is going on with this OSTH. Two years - and the SYRIZA's gentlemen also had to answer - had OSTH as a state-owned company and had to become an ISH by 4 December. Two years, what did he do? It says that it has been liquidated in operation and has not been able to do so and now we want another three - four years, Minister - not Mr Karamanlis here - to be cleared up and put into another regime. I don't understand. People get sick. Something we have to do with all this. The amendment on the capital market committee - not yours, it is the Ministry of Finance, Mr Stakoura - that we will be voting in favour of it, but that we should have been on time and not on other, irrelevant bills. You see that, while your bill was clean, it was "hacked" as they say in my village. The 'and other provisions' came in. Change the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u557	Thank you very much. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a general comment before entering the individual amendments very briefly. Unfortunately, the practice of poor legislation continues with amendments by other ministries to come to such an important bill, while at the same time mixing articles that are problematic with others that could find a wider consensus. I shall start with the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which deals with the responsibilities of the Securities and Markets Committee. I will make two comments on this because I know that it is not your amendment, Minister. Mr. Staruras isn't here. First of all, why is this amendment coming today and so haste? Why couldn't he wait until next week, when, in all likelihood, the tax bill, which is already being processed in the relevant Commission, is that of Economic Affairs, so that it can be submitted with him and come a bill from the relevant Ministry? The second is: Why are systemic credit institutions and insurance companies excluded from the positive, in part, provisions which provide for all other articles? We shall now proceed to the second, which is the legal aid, and it is an amendment that finds us positive. In addition, we, among other colleagues, put it as a matter of the committee. Now, in your third amendment, I shall stand in the fifth article, which increases the organic positions of the President-in-Office by eighty-six at the same time as reducing those of the year-olds, a move which has already caused intense reactions, as it conflicts with a consistent demand from the judiciary for increasing the organic positions, leaving open issues of degrading the position of the President at first instance, a disturbance between grades, but also a charge of cases both on eats and on year-to-year presidents, since there has been no consultation before. Indeed, such a move, which is taking place very soon after new administrations have been placed in many hospitals in the country, which have caused the reactions that we have all seen, shows that the process of settling the'mother' is continuing and that is, frankly, unacceptable. I shall dwell on the provisions of Article 2, which concern "The House of the Child" and are provisions which we sincerely wish to support. I know that now is the last minute and it makes no sense, but if he had come earlier, I would have told you that he would have come to a different amendment to support it. Very soon, in thirty seconds, I shall refer to the rest. We will vote against the amendment on the judiciary because we believe that it creates a peculiar privileged justice for a few, leaving many out of legal and judicial protection, as it increases the total cost, adding an extra sign. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In the amendment tabled by Mr KINAL's colleagues, we are also amazed - and I shall be in agreement with the President of the Communist Party of Greece - who is now coming, and we believe that we would like to have a clearer explanation. In any case, the explanatory statement does not cover us so that we can support it or give a statement. I'm hanging up with OSTH. Again, it is not your amendment, and we consider it to continue with a practice of the government, to satisfy requests from individuals who are engaging in the urban transport of Thessaloniki privileged and abusive. The OSH must be public and meet the needs of the citizens, the passengers. We will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u559	Thank you, too. The Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u560	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have actually completed a thorough discussion process of a bill which, at least for the majority of colleagues, but also for the parties of the Greek Parliament, is a need for today's reality in our homeland. I am not saying this because, as I have repeated many times, there has been a similar legislative initiative from a previous government, from the 2010 PASOK or SYRIZA of 2018, but mainly because there is no serious country in Europe and the world that has not adopted the institution of mediation as a key process of credible alternative and additional method of resolving disputes, without access to justice. This is an assumption that I think no one can question. I understand the logic of 'anything that is European I do not adopt.' I am obviously talking about the position of the Communist Party of Greece. I disagree. I respect this view, and I imagine that all of what is heard as objections from there and beyond stop on this basic assumption. However, let us actually see what has evolved these days in the relevant parliamentary committee so far in plenary with regard to this bill. The parties that have ruled in a previous period and have attempted this legislative initiative and want to adopt in general a reasonable philosophy regarding the bill. Is that legitimate, but how legitimate it is to say that we copy a previous bill when ten bodies come during the hearing and congratulate us on a new, self-evident, comprehensive bill? On the other hand, how much is it that you do not take into account matters which in fact relate to either European legislation or constitutionality internally? I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because you have raised to me issues relating to the properties of the ombudsmen, to issues relating to training providers, which you know have responded at European level. Do you not know that in Europe ombudsmen do not even need to have a higher education degree? You don't know that? Do you not know that, when there was the first PASOK law, we were actually judged on issues of this kind at European level and indeed on the different viewpoint of the European institutions? Don't you know all this? Don't you know that we had to adapt to a bill on data that exists throughout Europe? I say this because I repeat that I accept the criticism of the Opposition no matter what it is in any way, but not at least on matters that are far from reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to change the legal culture in our country and I urge you to take responsibility for all. It is not just a question of bringing in a new institution that will obviously help, create a different logic and will certainly unload the enormous burden that exists in Greek justice. Obviously, this is a big issue. The question is to be able to promote a different culture, which will enable us to introduce a different spirit into Greek society, but also to the officials of justice, that of friendly and out-of-court dispute resolution. This is the philosophy of this particular bill, which we are trying today essentially to vote in the Greek Parliament, so that the next day we can see all the good things we describe in each of our own ways will have a substantial effect on Greek reality. The effort made by the Ministry of Justice was not to copy a previous bill. It was to present an autonomous, comprehensive draft law, which describes all the terms and rules of the operation of this institution. I think it is really a great success for the Greek parliamentary reality that at least most parties have stood up to this logic, despite criticism and the fact that different opinions have been expressed. However, I repeat that we must also seriously and responsibly see the effort being made, because only then can we be meaningful and useful to Greek society. There have been many issues that one might have raised and which one could have commented on and discussed, but I think most of the opposition of the arguments has been made by both the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives. It is important, however, to see what has happened in the neighbouring country in Italy. In 2010, which took the respective legislative initiative in Greece, it was precisely then that mediation was adopted as an institution in Italy. It spent more than two years with terrible internal reactions and many problems, which showed that it could be very difficult to implement the institution. I imagine you realize where the reactions usually stand when we try to introduce something new and when this new may affect some. Today, ladies and gentlemen, in Italy more than two hundred and fifty thousand cases per year are resolved with the mediation institution. Do you realize how much weight is deducted from the regular justice procedure? That is what we need to stand by, and that is where we need to demarcate whatever objective we are currently putting on this legislative initiative. I say this because I say again that the opposition is good, I accept it, it is good the different opinion and the different expression of opinion, but I think that reality is always one, it is indisputable and no one can escape from it. The sooner and easier we see it, we recognize it, we adopt it and we support it, the greater the chances are that we can help the Greek society through these legislative initiatives. I will say one more thing about the bill: we are not talking about compulsory mediation. I've said it many times, and I'm glad you understand that, Mr. Blondopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u561	It's the starting point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u562	It is a compulsory attempt to get into mediation. You must all understand that, if we did not have this condition, we would almost have no chance of the implementation of this institution. That is a truth that cannot be called into question. It is not a dogmatic position that is currently attempting to legislate the Ministry of Justice and the current government. It is a position that has taken into account all the parameters. We have taken note of what has been ahead of us. We have tried to respond and heal all those problems that had been presented to the two previous legislative initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, who have expressed different views, I believe that they are motivated mainly by the opposition mood, because if they were trying to pay attention to the bill and read it out of a word, they would have found that a very large part of their own reasons had nothing to do with the reality of the bill that we are presenting and discussing today. I would also like to ask them to read the decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. There are most of the answers you have raised. For example, an issue raised by the Qualified Opposition and other bodies: Why cannot the public enter the mediation process? Really, have you thought about it, have you answered it? Because the mediation process must ensure the protection of the impossible against the strongest opponent, and that is a reality. That is why we are not in fact in a position to possibly put insurance companies, large companies providing medical services, multinational companies in the mediation process. That's why you can't really have two non-equivalent, non-equivalent places. So even what you have said many times is perfectly justified - I repeat - by the minutes of the decision of the Administrative Plenary Assembly of the Ice Bay, which I shall table in the Minutes and I will ask my colleagues who have a real interest in taking and reading it. There you will see that a very large part of all these remarks you have actually made have been answered. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, at the moment we are here we have completed with the issues relating to good legislation on European law. We had taken care to ask the administrative plenary of the Ice Bay that the opinion and approval of this bill should not arise again, and that the issues raised in the previous legislative initiative should not arise again. We are ready to give Greek society an opportunity to operate an institution, which we believe is a great step forward both for the country and for society or, if you want, even for the very concept of justice. Not for justice or the justice system, but for the concept of justice, which will give too many to save time, to manage a process that is truly more economic, is confidential, impartial, in terms and procedures that are described precisely. There have been several issues relating to the Central Mediation Committee. Have you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, followed the changes that you have made about the incompatibility of the members of the Mediation Committee? To what extent can a member of the Central Mediation Committee be both both a party to a large mediation body? Aren't there incompetent? We have done nothing but try to tighten up the criteria and put insurance packages in place. One colleague said that we have reduced the number of judges. Who told you this was a court proceedings? Aren't we saying here this is another procedure? You have not understood this and you say, why have we reduced the number of judges in the Central Mediation Committee? We have barely tried to have a proportional representation at all levels so that there are no issues or problems. In fact, we have reduced the number of participants from the Ministry of Justice. There must be an evaluation at a reasonable time of the process of applying the institution, but also of the results it produces, and that can only be done if it is a member of the Ministry's permanent administration. That's where he's responding. He's not answering somewhere else. And I really say this with all honesty and good mood, without trying to convince you at this moment about something that is not beyond real. Mr Kalamatain, you told me earlier that you would vote against Rule 20, if I am not mistaken. Do you know it's the same as Article 196 of your law? Look at it. You want me to give you these articles, so you can be sure? I can really, through the Minutes, if you would like, at this time, to incorporate them and then I hope you will justify your position sufficiently, because, I repeat, we see and read well what is happening and of course we justify our position or otherwise all of this is part of a reasonable, simple opposition. I'm filing it in the Minutes. It is Article 20 of today's bill with Article 196 of Law 4512/2018. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let's go talk about the issues raised by the Honourable Parliamentary spokesman for the Civilian Representation. Of course, some of these issues were raised by almost all colleagues and other parties. Let's go talk about the amendments. It's the third bill submitted by the Ministry of Justice. In the first bill, we had no amendment. In the second bill, in the changes to the Criminal Codes, we tabled an amendment, which was absolutely necessary, since the consequences of the implementation of the new Criminal Code as of 1 July 2019 did not give the legal advisers of the Ministries to indicte in specific cases. You know that, Mr. Blondopoulos, I imagine. So I imagine you will understand that this was not an unrelated amendment, which was somewhere else, but an amendment which closed an empty one which the previous government's legislative initiative had created. So let's go to today's bill. First of all, for the body in theory of our many amendments, the Ministry of Justice, I informed you that they were not ready, because they had to pass through the General Accounting Office of the State. However, I had informed you in good time from the last meeting at the second reading of the draft law in the relevant parliamentary committee. So that is why I do not think anyone would argue that there was a surprise to know exactly what is going on. Of course, they were amendments, which related to issues of crucial and urgent importance of the Ministry of Justice. Unless you did not want to deal with the issues relating to the "Children's House", if you did not want the Harit Council to function, if you did not want to give answers and solutions to questions relating either to legal aid for the bill or to follow up in the School of Judges, which will shortly resume its work. But let's go talk about the amendment in question, in which I think there was a more general area of controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to decide: whether we recognise the problems in the area of justice and try to solve them - step by step, or else we will remain in this well-known sterile confrontation of micro-party logic, which has been adopted and, unfortunately, has been perpetuating in recent years in the Greek Parliament. The Vice-President and you, Mrs Giannakopoulou, know very well that there are huge delays in the field of secondary justice, with cases which delay and create huge issues for both citizens and justice itself. It is also known from everywhere that the Appeals of Athens, Thessaloniki and Piraeus raise the greatest burden. Really, how do you think the number 86 came up? We have someone who is supposed to listen to this and I really do not know what to say - eighty-fifth or eighty-sixths, which we want to help? Why did you tell me that? Don't you know that sixty-six are the presiding chefs in Athens, thirteen in Thessaloniki and seven in Piraeus? There's no magical number coming out. You know, it is easy to claim that behind such arrangements there may be second or third things, etc., but if for some reason I could say that this can be done with half the number, I would do it with half the number. But how much would he really be responding to the need, which we know is being created at the moment? You don't know that with the one-sided appeal, which comes back with the changes in the Criminal Code, needs are increasing? Do you not want to have the authority, knowledge and composition of the president of this year, the man who will make decisions? Don't you want it, Mr. Blondopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u563	That was...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u564	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u565	I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u566	Don't get up, Mr. Blondopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u567	He made a personal report. Faced with the essentials.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u568	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u569	Mr President, I have been patient, I have listened to all my colleagues, and I will be done in a moment. You know what's not right? It is not right that political parties should be dragged behind publications or behind letters. And I say that, because this is not a real policy production. On the contrary, impressions are being created and nobody is probably hiding behind in one respect, which for alpha or beta there, because those present in Jerusalem always know what the reasons are. They may have a target, and this is unfortunately in a second or third year also exposes parties and all those who claim these points of view. I have therefore made a commitment earlier to a specific announcement that the sect created even by the signatories to this letter, which expressed the concern about the increase in the number of Presidents in the same number of years, and I told you in advance that these positions, which will be a satisfactory number, are due to be announced on a next legislative initiative. And if you want to know, even this particular development of who will become presidents of this year will be completed next June, it will not happen tomorrow. Those who know, those who are fighting and those who are in the process know very well what is going to happen. So we are not talking about either heterogeneism, either early or late. We are trying to preserve the authority of the institution, give credibility and prestige to the President of this year, so that there are no such issues and problems of this kind. All the others, which I have listened with great interest, I think that they have answered and made concrete sense. Respect for the amendments made by other opposition parties, except, of course, Officerial Response, makes sense. But, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, are you criticising the amendments? You were here in the previous House, weren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u570	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u571	Do you remember how you legislated? Do you have any idea? There is a record of the number of amendments. Do you know what amendments you made in every bill? Do you really have a memory to remember what happened? Thirty, forty, fifty amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u572	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u573	Mr. Comrade, please. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u574	I'm not talking to you, Mr. Kalamatiano. You weren't here. I am speaking to the colleagues who were here and to the previous Parliament. At some point I think that the responsibility of our earlier course and act is greater and always goes against the mirror of personal dignity. I say this because, at least once again, here in the Ministry of Justice, if you will, that goes beyond the part of the amendments and you know it very well. These are two ministerial amendments, which highlight the great need for immediate legalisation and, of course, two other amendments tabled. We are not talking about a storm of amendments, as has been said, or at any rate that could go hand in hand with the so-called bad legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that each of us with great ease can understand where we are, who can see and understand the effort made by both the government and the Ministry of Justice. However, to close, when a more general review is made, it is legitimate. But when this criticism can easily find the comparisons with the immediate past, there is no criticism. It is the effort of the well-known opposition. Because even for the debate that was held either on the qualifications of the hospital managers or all that, to a very large extent, we know how they worked the previous period and what the comparative data were and what the qualifications of the previous hospital administrators were and who had the real capacity and where public health is today, I think it is a debate that one can do at any time with the comparative evidence to prove everything. But I won't stay in this. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have in a constructive way contributed to the drafting of the bill. I have stated from the outset that my own effort and personal and, more generally, the Ministry of Justice is to reconcile the bills. That is what I think is being proved in practice. It has happened with all the three bills that we have passed so far. I think that the latter, today, has the greatest incorporation, in substance, of the comments and of all the Members' and parties' positions. This is the case with the conviction that if we really see justice as an area where we can leave it outside the micro-group controversy and legislate for the good and the interest of the Greek society and the Greek citizens, the result that we will ultimately have will be what we all wish for, and what we are all trying for. I would like to thank Mr Kouvella, the majority rapporteur, Mr Kalamatiano, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, Mrs Konnaka, of course, Mr Mylonakis, Mrs Bakadima. I want to thank the Deputy Minister - he could not be to the end for any personal reason - because his contribution to the formulation of this bill was really great, as was the contribution of my own and his partners. As you can see, every bill requires a great deal of effort, and it is a very serious and great effort made by all those involved in the Ministry of Justice for this particular case, to bring about the best possible outcome, to incorporate observations, to see what the observations of the public consultation are, what Members' comments are, to have the best possible outcome. I should like to thank the parliamentary representatives. I think that the exercises we continue to do by legislating for the Ministry of Justice can prove many things and demonstrate, above all, that in the future a more mature political system can operate in a much better way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u575	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank the Regiki she was waiting for. My neighborhood's here. Three Thessalonians are here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-six students and students and four teachers from the 1st Municipal School of Pefki Thessaloniki, the well-known Regziki. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Welcome. I live in peace. I'm yours. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Measure in civil and commercial matters - Further harmonisation of the Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 and other provisions" is hereby declared. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, thirty-one articles, six amendments and the farewell article as well as the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for the bill principle, all the articles, amendments and the farewell article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may be assisted. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u576	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u577	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u578	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Measure in civil and commercial matters - Further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u579	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u580	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-28-S1-commons.u581	With the consent of the House at 20.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 29 November 2019 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
