ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 1. Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the company "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the concession of the right to search and exploit hydrocarbons in the maritime area 10, Ionian Sea, Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Consolidation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Repsol Exploracion S.A’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea Area, Western Greece. 3. Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total R&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V’, ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’, to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons to the maritime region ‘South Western Crete’, Greece. 4. Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total R&P Greece B.V", "ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V", "Greek Petroleum Anonymity" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons to the marine region "Western Crete" in Greece. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 26 September 2019 to discuss the draft legislation at a meeting, a single at the outset and on articles. I therefore propose that we begin with the position of the rapporteurs and the special speaker as a whole on the contracts for 15 minutes each, and of course there is also the proposal that the special speakers of the Change Movement, who are different for each contract, should be placed for five minutes each so that there should also be an equal treatment of all the rapporteurs and speakers. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and three educational attendants from the 1st Tavros Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to make a clarification to this House, because not all Members have received their electronic cards, we will not open the electronic system. You will state your name in the old way to register on the list of speakers. Of course, the list is closed at the end of the speech of the rapporteur for Civilian Responsibility. Mr Maximos Sedetakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to ratify four important conventions. These are the agreements signed by the previous government last April and June on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Ionian and west of Crete. The first concerns Region 10 in the Ionian Sea, between the public and the ELPE, the second in the Ionian Region in Western Greece between the public and the Consortium ‘REPSOL EXPLORACION S.A’ and ELPE, the third and fourth in the maritime area west and south-west of Crete between the public and the ‘TOTAL’ consortium, ‘EXXONMOBIL’ and ELPE. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat these are conventions signed by the previous SYRIZA government and the current New Democracy government is bringing them to parliament ratification. So someone here would expect the long-lived national consensus to take place. What more tangible is what the previous government has to sign an agreement and the next one to ratify it in Parliament by voting in favour of it! Why - and we must say this - we did not bring the agreements to the vote against them, we brought them in to vote for them and instead of SYRIZA, who negotiated them and signed them, he also told us that he had reservations. He told us that he was supposed to change the circumstances and the agreements would lead to a sale of the country's mineral wealth and that for this sale, of course, the SYRIZA who signed them will not be responsible, but we who bring them for ratification. Ladies and gentlemen, we're losing something here. Something's not right. So let's see what doesn't fit into SYRIZA. Both Mr Famelos in committee and Mr Skourletis told us that they heard rumours that the government and the Minister, Kostis Hadjidakis, intend to privatise the ELPEs, which are in all four conventions. All four! SYRIZA negotiated this too. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been ministers. You served the country in a position of responsibility. You signed your signature. Is it possible to come here today and cancel your signature because you heard rumors? So because you are causing common sense and insulting our intelligence, I will remind you that the privatisation of the ELPEs, which is supposedly us to get drunk and change the conditions supposedly and allegedly leads to a sale of our mineral wealth, is in the contractual obligations of your own Memorandum, the third Memorandum, the Tsipra Memorandum. In other words, if we are talking today about possible privatisation of the ELPEs, that is not a rumour, it is a contractual obligation that you signed. And you have the courage to blame us for getting involved in the privatisation of the ELPEs and going on selling the mineral wealth. Well, I also reverse your question. So tell us who the company is meant for? Who's the muster, Mr. Famele, who I don't see as the rapporteur in the Chamber? Four and a half years you've been negotiating with the companies. Four and a half years have been discussing the administration of the ELPEs. You may not know anything, you may not have heard anything. So something else is going on, obviously, and you're changing your position. You're afraid of something. What are you afraid of? Did Mr. Varoufakis take you? Because I have heard the MEP in the committee, Mr Arsenis, say that the mineral wealth must remain where he is, not to take advantage of it. This is a clear position. It is a green, an ecological position. Well done, you guys. Only you're not telling us, of course, how you warm up in winter. I assume your ecological consciousness doesn't allow you to burn either natural gas or oil. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, a clear position is needed here. Because you've confused me. You're confusing us. In studying the contracts I felt sincerely that if someone were looking for national consensus and consensus, he would find it in these texts. I do not hide from you that I felt a satisfaction, as if something had changed from the near past, when as an opposition the extreme left, with the finger of the complaint, targeted us as germans and traitors who are selling the country and its mineral wealth, of course. Reading the title of the agreements you signed, I thought you have now matured: "Legislation for research and exploitation" says the title. And here, let me tell you that the terms are of the utmost importance. Because to grant a right, he has it. Nobody's questioning it. No one disputes that Greece actually exercises national sovereignty and its sovereign rights in the ground, the ground, the marine and underwater areas of its territory. By signing such conventions, no one can question Greece's sovereign rights. And this is of the utmost importance to the aggressive neighbour, who hastens with every opportunity to question them. Well, I thought, but you disproved me. You want to go back to the past. After going back, I would remind you that in 2012-2015 the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état, which I supported as a Member, had taken initiatives to place the country on the international energy map, to turn it into an energy hub, to upgrade its geopolitical position, to strengthen its negotiating power, to remain a stability factor in an unstable region. It was when we put in front of the TAP gas pipeline, liquefied natural gas terminals. It was then that we signed corresponding conventions with the ones that we are currently dominating here in the House. That was the national planning we made. It was then that to avoid shadows and to expose the shallowness of your criticisms we brought to Parliament the conventions. The law did not oblige the government to do so in such cases. It could be sufficient to sign the conventions, and companies could start their work without the conventions going through the suffering of parliamentary control. That was the transparency acquis that we have created. We wanted the National Representation to be informed, to learn the Greek people because these agreements are so important to the country, what is the strategic benefit, what is the economic benefit for the national economy and local communities. Then no one listened to us. The country was dancing at the revolutionary rate played by the jungles of Alexis Tsipras and the "excited negotiation" came in and the national planning was almost overturned. And after an inappropriate memorandum, in which I would remind you that one of the conditions is the privatisation of the ELPEs, as codified revolutionaries, you have done the national self-evident and obligated. You have adopted the international practice and arrived at these texts that we are currently adopting. We are therefore bringing the conventions to ratification because we want people to know. We want him to understand that the sales outlets and all the graphics that were heard are myths, are stereotypes, which have been cultivated by you to smash your signatures in these agreements. You had to become a government to agree on something that time-contradicted your space and delayed the country's progress. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have done a good one. With your signatures as a government you have shown that you agree with the national need to exploit the country's mineral wealth. That helps the country. Now you're a Dedicated Opposition. Do you still believe in this necessity? Answer clearly and leave the fugitives! Will you ratify the agreement you signed as government or not? Will you honor your signature or not? We hear some of you telling us ironically: But is the agreement signed by SYRIZA that you don't want to change a word? Listen. The enemy of good is the best. From there on, what politically matters is to move on, to show that Greece as a state is serious. Since then, when these agreements meet the criteria that we have set ourselves in the context of the national strategy, we accept them and uphold them. Besides, legally, no word from the agreements can change. The agreements or the agreements are ratified as they are and we are moving forward or canceling them and starting the procedures from the outset. There is no other solution. Stop joking, then! You know very well that agreements do not change without costs and certainly do not change for fun. The laundry, then, is hollow words about shallow impressions. The SYRIZA agreements are in the spirit of the 2012-2015 governance agreements. They have all realised that they are agreements that achieve the country's security and stability, which enhance its geopolitical position, which turn it into an energy hub. They are agreements with direct and indirect benefit to the national and local economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into detail to convince SYRIZA colleagues how good the conventions signed by their government are, nor will I refer to the positive points of the conventions here. I did so in committee, and I do not want to deprive Mr Famello and the opposition of the pleasure of defending her own legislation. I am going to stand by another stereotype that nurtured people's consciousness, the deliberate misinformation of a portion of the political system, all that is supposed to be sensitive to the environment, and the rest of us indifferent. I will therefore tell you that this contract includes a strict set of provisions that ensures that research and exploitation will be carried out in a fully environmentally compatible way, as companies are obliged to comply fully with all the environmental legislation in question, which is further strengthened by the incorporation of European Directive 2013/30 into the Greek legal order. In addition, the Joint Ministerial Decision approving a strategic environmental impact study for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons applies. This provides for conditions, restrictions, guidelines to be respected in the specialisation and implementation of each hydrocarbon research and exploitation programme. The bet is, however, not only to stay in the adoption of the terms, but to focus on supervision when they are being implemented. I therefore think that the strengthening of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company with specialised staff and managers of qualified scientific training is of key importance, not only to have fun with the concerns of sensitive environmental citizens, not to ensure that the environmental conditions for environmental protection are fully respected by contractors, but also to send a message to our scientists, who have left abroad, that Greece is starting to do things in which they have a place and can return. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the ratification of conventions which the Greek state should have signed earlier. We have wasted time and opportunities because of the ideas and stereotypes of a portion of the political system and the weakness or unwillingness of the other part to deal with them. Today these ideas are coming back. The national interest, however, requires that this time we be more decisive and more determined. The four conventions we are called upon to ratify today are a tangible demonstration of the confidence of major investors in the Greek economy, which makes it even more convinced that Greece is turning a page, that it is no longer a country that is enclosed and alienated from the international community, that it is no longer dreadful with the technological developments and the challenges of the future. Greece is and must remain a stability producer in an unstable region. In this context, it must do everything possible to enhance its geopolitical position and strategic importance. This is the great picture of the agreements we are currently in existence and not the picture of the misery that SYRIZA is trying to bring back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u4	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Zachariadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good month! What has changed or has not changed can be seen and discussed in detail. Today we will discuss the ratification of four very important conventions, in which four conventions participate in the Hellenic Petroleum. It is an issue that concerns economic and environmental issues, as well as the geopolitical interests of the country. Our choice for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons was based on the prerequisite for a serious public policy arm, such as the Hellenic Petroleum, with strong public participation but also on a very big shift in climate change and the adaptation of the country's policy to the needs of the environment. Our choice for the participation of ELPE in the contracts is not only related to the great economic benefit of the Greek State, but also to the greater sensitivity and political responsibility for local development, environmental and social issues in general. We have given particular weight to the geopolitical importance of using hydrocarbon deposits, but also to the management of crude oil prices that affect the Greek economy. But today, unfortunately, we are not at the same point, as the government has already announced its intention to proceed with the complete withdrawal of the public from ELPE. In his recent interview with "BLOOMBERG" Mr.Mitsotakis was clear. He said: “We examine all our options. It is a matter of honour, because we want to be sure that if we sell, we will sell at a satisfactory price." Is there, Minister, something that is not understandable? Are you selling or not selling, Mr. Hatzidakis? I understand you're selling. If I'm wrong, say it clearly. Make a commitment. Say you're not selling. I reread the Prime Minister's statement: "We examine all our options. It's a matter of honor, because we want to be sure. If we want to sell, we will sell at a satisfactory price." So the strategy is selling and looking for the price. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, there's an unsurpassed complex on your side. You cannot accept that the administration that appointed the state made the company profitable between 2015 and 2019 while the private administration put it in. In 2014, Greek Petroleum had losses of EUR 368 million and currently has a profit record with an average EBITDA of four years, in the period 2015-2018, 750 million euros. This is one of the most profitable groups in Greece in which the State participates by 35.5%, where it operates in five countries with forty-three companies, with strong export orientation and 60% exports. We still read in the press that the government wants to give public shares for sale possibly through a stock exchange and a possible discount while the option was with premium shares and a profit of 10% to 30%. Is someone playing with the ELPE stock on the stock market? If so, who and why? The obligation to privatise ELPE, as it was heard earlier, was inherited to the Government of SYRIZA by New Democracy and PASOK in 2015, but an obligation, with the exit of the country from the memoranda, ceased to exist. In addition, the SYRIZA Government, following negotiations with the institutions, managed to sell a percentage of the ELPEs the State to maintain a strong share of the share as well as the rights to research and extract hydrocarbons. It should be recalled that the competition was finally barren and today the country has the possibility, but also the right to examine all options in a new context. So we say it clearly and suggest that we do not sell it. That's our proposal. Unless, of course, the rumor that you want to give land and hydrocarbons to the Latsis group is true. If someone does not read the press carefully and what is written and leaked, he may not understand as a scientific fiction scenario that you donate the ELPEs to the Latsis Group to finance and start the investment in the Greek. In all this, what's the public interest? The property of the Greek people how is it exploited? More reasonable and more reliable to me, this scenario seems to me to be from the nonsense and inconveniences that were being said in this Chamber in the previous parliamentary term that the previous government, supposedly, wanted to exchange the non-cutting of pensions with the Macedonian Government. So that's what you do, and you celebrate when foreign investors left the Greek. It was done, he says, Greek Greek, that triumphantly triumphed a friend who was approaching the government website in the past few days. I must, however, note with regard to the procedure under the convention we are debating today that we have received absolute reorganisation and significant deficiencies in the use of hydrocarbons deposits. We have received a bad strategy with the proclamation of many lands, which has reduced the value of rights, the famous Maniotis Plan. We, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, the competent body, the Greek Hydrocarbon management company. Until then, the European offshore directive had not been incorporated. And this was done by the SYRIZA government so that there is the authority responsible for drilling safety. In addition, we banned the exploitation of shale gas by Law 4602/2019. We have established regional observatories for the participation of society and environmental control. We further went on to sign a tripartite transnational agreement with Israel and Cyprus on dealing with accidents and the exchange of know-how. At environmental level we have made very big changes which are clearly reflected in environmental impact studies for the Ionian Sea regions, where they state clearly that exploitation in NATURA 2000 areas is prohibited, which was not in the previous regulations to minimise the effects of research on marine mammals and marine biodiversity. We have also introduced all the provisions of 'ACCOBAMS' and raised the issue of responsibility for dealing with pollution and further responsibilities for research outside European legislation to protect the ecosystem. And, of course, the four conventions provide for an independent studyer approved by the lessor to assess the impact. We also ruled out land mining. However, this is all about the environmental factor in mining. So there is an important question here: What market context and what plan will be produced for hydrocarbons, whether they have to be produced and when they have to be produced. The national energy and climate plan, which at least we delivered as a draft plan to the European Commission, included natural gas, only as a transition fuel. It provided for a reduction after 2030 and a very small contribution of oil to electricity production, where transport, the domestic sector and the tertiary sector fell dramatically. Afterwards, however, the particularly negative results of the UN intergovernmental conference on climate, as well as our political commitment to more radical reforms, led former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to be in favour of the climate neutral Europe target. We have not heard the same term from the current Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, but we have heard that she is in agreement with this objective in Europe. We therefore want, Mr Hatzidakis, to be answered by the government: is it in line with the objective of the climate neutrality of Greece, which we now lay on absolute terms? It is therefore clear in the international debate following the major and disastrous fires in Brazil, Siberia, Alaska, after the glaciers' melting, the Bolsonarro and Tramp, that it is no longer going internationally. However, we could all discuss them for a substantial change in hydrocarbons and a change in the energy mix in the country and for the functioning of all the reforms that I have presented to you, both on the issue of the exploitation and research of hydrocarbons and on the issue of environmental licensing. However, we cannot proceed unless we have the official view of the Government on the national plan, on energy and on climate. Is there a place for the national plan, for energy and for climate? What's that? Can we talk without that? There is one question: What is the environment in which we will discuss mining contracts? Why else is it that we know the stockpile of the country and know geopolitically how to exploit or what our geopolitical position and power is, which I must point out that our government strengthened Greece after 2015, and otherwise it is not to know them. Will we hear or will we not hear the voices that are growing around the world about direct action against climate change? Will Greece be a pioneer or will it be a pig in this battle? We say he should be a pioneer. Do you have any idea how much the absence of a plan and preparation for climate change costs? Do you remember the old STERN report on annual costs in developed economies? Climate change means, among other things - because we are talking about and topicality - and refugee migration flows and civil conflicts in many countries and weather disasters causing uproots. I would like a comment, Mr Hatzidakis, on today's Vorides statement, which I find inhumane and I would like to believe that it does not express the majority of democratic citizens. He says illegal immigrants are not entitled to humanitarian aid. Really? Is that the political and worthy tradition of the country and of Europe? So will the Greek Parliament also hear Greta's voice saying that, when the planet reaches its limits, we cannot deal only with profits and money? Will you hear the international slogan that there is no second planet, “there is no planet B”? Will you hear 'if the planet were a bank, would you have saved it'? So because you do not clear things up, because your plan, in our view, does not concern the public interest, we are placed with 'the present' and we warn you and inform the Greek people in good time. Respect his property, make use of the possibilities for the benefit of the public. I'll get an example. The useless and inappropriate increases of PPC that the small- and medium-sized businessman will pay to 15% - so you love, Mr Hatzidakis, in the middle-class - shows the way and the diligence you are moving with. So it also opens up in our country with a long debate on climate change. Even now, even at five and five, the debate on climate change is a deep debate on the structure of the economy and society. It is a question of a productive and consumer model. The current model in both the country and internationally is neither environmental nor socially sustainable. It destroys the environment and broadens inequalities. For us, therefore, the Left and the progressive partition of ecology, the economies and societies of the future must address the economic, social and environmental dimensions of issues as an indivisible unity, which is completely absent from the development bill, which is coming to Parliament in the next few days and we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u6	We will continue with the first two special speakers, Mr. Arvanidis on behalf of KINAL, and then Mr. Gokas will follow. Then, the special speaker of the Kumbunist Party, i.e. the rest of the parties, will speak and the last two will follow from the list of speakers, from KINAL, at the end. Mr. Arvanitides, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we currently have four rental contracts in companies for the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons. Personally, I am going to refer to the Convention on the Sea Area 10 in the Ionian Sea. We have therefore watched in committee a game of impression between the New Democracy and SYRIZA claiming the copyright of contracts. They were brought quickly, once they were elected, and had prepared them better than the previous ones and signed them a few days before the elections. I would like to remind everyone and all of us, in and out of this Chamber, that we are here today and dominated by these conventions, because our prolongation, the PASOK, has come forward in a national effort called the exploration and production of hydrocarbons in Greece. We are proud that we have opened the way in a difficult period of time, between 2010 and 2014, we have created the energy map, with a number of those who are now voting for it. A PASOK and Minister Giannis Maniotis set up the necessary legal framework for this national case and not a party. It is crucial that the resolution of Law 4001/2011 on the research and development of hydrocarbons, as well as Law 4162/2013 on the Solidarity Fund. For us, the Change Movement, and now the issue remains the same and is the utilization of the country's mineral resources with respect for the environment and future generations, which are part of a productive reconstruction plan in the country. It is a pity that no bodies were called upon in our committee, as we have always called for. The concerns and questions expressed by local communities and environmental organisations should be heard, especially when the administration in Greece has not shown that it can be effective in controlling environmental conditions. The government must not just reassure the world, but also take all the necessary initiatives to inform the citizens, but also to guarantee that environmental conditions are respected. We are in favour of ratification for national, development and social reasons. We believe that ratification of contracts is merely the beginning and not the end of a process which will result in the energy and geopolitical upgrading of our country. That is why, Minister, we must move quickly on the far east land under Crete, and I would ask you to tell us what you are going to do specifically about this area. Will there be a new round of concessions with international competitions and when? We should move quickly, because we know Turkey with its strategy and its pursuits and its relationship with other Libyan governments. He has recently attempted - we have seen it - to directly question the Greek EEZ. We must not waste any more valuable national time. We believe that in the context of the European energy union, the mineral wealth of Greece and Cyprus should be treated as a European. If we want, Minister, to shield our national legitimate interests and interests and at the same time to provide solutions to the European Union seeking to diversify natural gas sources and greater security in its supply, we must move in this direction towards a common European energy dogma between Greece and Cyprus, which is about not only the mineral wealth but also the electricity interconnection of the two countries. With regard to the development dimension, I would like to note that this activity does not require the use of budgetary resources and does not affect the energy transition path of the country. In no case, however, should we aim to base our economy on developments, nor to commit to fossil fuels. Greece must seek sustainable development with respect for the environment. I now come to the social dimension. Here each party gives its political stigma. We have shown who we want to support. We established by Law 4162 the National Social Solidarity Account. 70% of the funds from mining and licences will go to support the pension system, 5% in the regions and local communities, 20% in the Green Fund for environmental compensation projects and 5% is adaptable. This is what we suggest that it should lead to research not only on hydrocarbons, but on renewable energy sources, sources of storage and smart grids. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Time is pushing. I would like little time, Mr President. I would like to close, Minister, with a reference to the PPE, repeating five questions that I put to the committee, which are directly related to the progress of all contracts and much more to what I am proposing now to the Ionian Sea, where the ELPE is a 100% employed person. ELPE, Minister, is currently the only sound lever and development tool but also the country's overall energy policy with a participatory role in mining, refineries and fuel trading and our RES strategy. ELPE's not just a company we sell to make a cashier. So I would like to ask, Mr Minister, today, since you have not been able to attend the committee, five clear questions about the ELPEs: First, will you sell in the year all the percentage or part of the percentage held by the Greek State S.A.? Why are we selling now and in what process? It's a profitable company that contributes to the State's revenues. Where will the public draw the money from the dividends of the ELPEs into the public funds from? Only in 2018 was 75 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u8	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u9	Two more questions, Mr President. Will you renegotiate SYRIZA's Memorandum of Understanding to collect 500 million from ELPE's sale? This obligation was the Memorandum of SYRIZA. Fifthly, what about the rights of ELPEs from mining and holding company and what percentage will they have in this Greek state? I am waiting for the answers, Minister, immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u10	Come on, Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u11	And, Mr Zachariadis, I am impressed for the moment, since in 2018 you signed the contract with ENERGEAN, 100% private, and it concerned the region of Aitolokarnania. Therefore, the objections to the adoption of these conventions, I think, are not in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u12	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u13	As we have set ourselves in committee, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote on sanctions for national, development and social reasons. They must go ahead with full respect for the environment to create better conditions for future generations. It's been four years late. They could already produce results. Of course, in 2014 three conventions were taken and ratified for Ioannina, Kataco and Patraikos. The choice of the PASOK government in 2011 to create a modern roadmap for the exploration, production and exploitation of hydrocarbons was a very important national and patriotic decision. Although the country had already entered the vortex of the crisis and the memorial caused by the economic derailment policy of the previous Karamanlis government, we, in the belief of the country's potential, insisted on dealing with it, but we were already alone. The main cause of the crisis, the New Democracy, was indifferently whistling at best when it did not have a memorial odor. But also the other political forces of SYRIZA, Kammenos, Golden Dawn etc., who formed the heteroshesian antimonetary cartel, were across the street and stoned our effort. In July 2011, a critical period, which really existed, came the bill on the use of hydrocarbons and Greece's ability to stand on its feet. With Ν 4001 the Greek company was created, contrary to the SYRIZA's ultratreats that came later with foreign administrations. This law starts with the first investigations, the seismics are being conducted, the concession procedure is being laid down, on the basis of which the conventions that have been ratified and those which we are discussing today have been ratified. PASOK's recommendation for the Generation Solidarity Fund was followed by Law 4162, a state law, and determines the utilization of public profits by hydrocarbons. As you know, in the socio-security system we have 70% to 75%. 20% goes to the Green Fund for projects and actions in the region concerned, 5% goes directly to the region and, in this case, to the regions of Crete, West Greece, Ionian Islands and Epirus and a proportion goes to funding programmes for education and postgraduate studies in the field of the use of mineral resources and oil and, according to our proposal, to extend the scope for the environment and the economy. With these two flagrant laws, we have captured our philosophy of economic development, sustainable development, which will be for the benefit of society at national, regional and local level, always with respect to the environment, key pillars, moreover, of social democracy. This policy on the exploitation of hydrocarbons, combined with the penetration of the renewable energy sources that we have achieved, which we have planned at the time, can be said to have been crucial for the way out of the crisis. At the same time, of course, some, as they were called "antimonetary", - later SYRIZA Ministers - talked about carbohydrates, such as one of the Independent Greeks. The other did - and still does - a fight against the utilization of the stadiums. The vote in this particular bill of the parties, which I have reminded the committee, is of particular value. SYRIZA voted 'no' at all, in principle, on articles, etc. The JRC, of course, was expected to vote. The New Democracy on many crucial issues has voted 'no'. And you had to do your self-criticism, Mr. Sedetakis, instead of hiding behind the co-operation government, where you couldn't do anything else. You voted, but before you were opposed to the agency. We were trying to deal with the crisis. But we were also trying to deal with the antimonists who had set up their own cartel. They would abolish the memorials and bring us the third memorial, known for its consequences. With the use of hydrocarbons, Lafazanis and Skourletis as Ministers did not have that view. Competitions were cancelled and procedures were frozen. These conventions that came and were ratified by Mr. Stathakis ten days before the election were after a 2017 call. And while Mr Stathakis signed these conventions immediately after the elections, SYRIZA remembered its antimonetary character. This time it is an antimony of their own Memorandum, which continues to be present under the responsibility of the New Democracy: overcrowding, over-taxation, social cuts, extinction of the CSCE and the minimum threshold for pensioners. Is that political responsibility? Can Greece walk like this? No, gentlemen. Energy policy 2010-2014, whose overall responsibility was for PASOK, led Greece to attain the 2020 targets much earlier for renewable energy sources. This report was made by the Prime Minister to the UN in the climate debate. And that was positive for Greece. And not to hate some sniffy people. But consider the neo-democrats' responsibilities for their negative attitude, at least initially, to renewable energy sources and to the use of hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u14	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. We in the coming years are sure that we can fully appreciate the policy that we planned in 2010 on the use of hydrocarbons. The Change Movement will continue to seek to reach a consensus on the country's national and major issues, not along the way and due to party need, Mr Sedetakis, but from the outset due to a national strategy and faith in the power of Greece and its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u16	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. And with the specific draft laws that come for ratification, concession and research contracts for hydrocarbons, the continuity of government policy emerges. The New Democracy took the baton from the SYRIZA government and the contracts signed by Mr. Stathakis bring them to the parliament today. Of course, SYRIZA is trying with various jokes to show that there is no such follow-up, namely that the contracts that they have made with a view to supporting and strengthening public intervention, the public interest, environmental protection and all that would be done through ELPEs. In other words, it grants the right to a public policy to an undertaking which is interested in its profits and which, of course, has it at the moment when there is energy poverty and expensive fuel for the people. This multinational will therefore defend the public interest, the environment. It is indeed a company in which the state participates with 35% and SYRIZA wanted to privatise it, and today it is fighting with the New Democracy who will make the best privatisation, saying now from the position of counter-population not to sell the ELPEs while the government was on the way to the sale of the ELPEs. Secondly, there is a barren confrontation and a hypocritical, literally, interest in the issue of climate change, as if the environment were just climate change. And show this hypocritical sensitivity in what respect? Green Fund revenues are EUR 3.5 billion. The EUR 3.2 billion, the SYRIZA government put it in the pillow for repayment of the State debt and of these EUR 3.5 billion, in three and a half years it gave for the protection of the forests of EUR 15 million and within it included the overtime of the forest officials, that is to say, neither gas nor fuels to come back, not to protect and upgrade forests. So we are talking about a hypocritical interest, but also about a more overall hypocritical interest, because under the term 'climate change' there is a huge conflict of great business interests. On the substance, behind this climate change there are very large multinationals who are interested in so-called 'green investments' and, of course, in huge profits that are going to arise from these so-called 'green investments'. This is, therefore, the issue of the case of climate change, in which the conflict between multinationals has become, the conflict between huge interests of business under the name of environmental protection. And, of course, it is paradoxical to say that capitalists, regardless of what color they have, are interested in the environment, when they jointly kill people, bomb areas, perform imperialist interventions, exploit extensive, extensive layers. Even multinationals with ecological sensitivity, as they are called, have workers without labour rights, exploit them for a handful of bread. And from this point of view, so much is their interest in the environment, as is Soros, the well known to everyone, highlights its environmental sensitivities. But let us not go through this whole debate, which is barren and is trying to hide the substance. What is the essence of the current conditions negotiated by the SYRIZA Government, following on from the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK? We have four new contracts. What are these contracts doing? These contracts confer the country's mineral wealth. And for what purpose is this country's mineral wealth granted? But in order to ensure precisely the interests of the multinationals participating in these consortia, which are signed by the contractors in these contracts. So, that is, the country's mineral wealth is assigned to the multinationals, who have entered into partnerships with domestic monopolies. From this point of view, the only reason why they are assigned is precisely to shield and support capitalist profit and not, of course, to satisfy the people, but also domestic needs in terms of energy issues. And we're talking about an mineral wealth that isn't renewed, is not replaced, it's exhausted. It is of particular importance that we see under what environment all this is allocated. The rapporteurs and previous parties have spoken and said that the geopolitical position of our country is being upgraded through these conventions. The rapporteur of the New Democracy said that we are exercising sovereign rights with these conventions. You are not asking Libya what do you call the sovereign rights? Syria? Why don't you ask Iraq, but also Cyprus? What sovereign rights does Cyprus exercise in the EEZ it has declared when there are Turkish drills and drilling alongside multinationals and fleets? So what protects the naval fleet - the French and American fleets - around Cyprus? The drilling of its own multinationals and not the sovereign rights of Cyprus. How much did all these conventions protect 37% of the Republic of Cyprus still in possession? So all this is hypocrisy. Not only are we going to protect our country's sovereign rights, but instead the Caesar's bourgeoisie is opening up. And we say this because, of course, there is a huge conflict in the wider region on the one hand, and huge competitions and conflicts are expressed between the United States of America, the European Union, NATO and Russia on energy planning, on the other hand, for the exploitation of wealthy energy sources and roads and on the other hand, there is another conflict between the United States of America, China and the European Union on international trade routes. It is no coincidence that all these enormous contradictions and the competitions that are taking place have led to imperialist interventions, border changes, wars, the aggression of Israel to escalate, at a large concentration of Natian and Russian military forces in the wider region, to the strongening of the presence of the US and NATO government in the western Balkans, turning Greece into a significial - which is also accepted by the current government - of the American and naval imperialists. All this really ensures the sovereign rights of our country, when we have Turkey's aggression, which is even more strengthened by the role of Pontius Pilate played by the Americans and NATO? And of course, how, really, do we exercise sovereign rights when we have not dared to declare EEZ? How, really, is this practiced? We haven't declared an EEZ and we're starting the concession for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons without the EEZ being declared. And the third element that forms this environment is precisely that all these conventions are cardboard with the previous conventions signed by the Governments of New Democracy - PASOK for Samara and Maniattan Minister, the Government of SYRIZA alone, but also today. Copy these agreements. All these agreements are being implemented in a more general Euro-Union energy market liberalisation policy as a whole, not just electricity. So this policy of liberating energy has shaped a state framework of research and exploitation for hydrocarbons, but it is cut and sewn to the demands of groups, multinationals. No control on the substance of the matter can be exercised by the infamous committee, no control over what is being investigated, what the results of the investigations are, how this wealth will be exploited. Thus, the role on the substance of the State is limited to the distributor of energy wealth to the groups concerned. That is what this committee does, it shares, in other words, land to the groups concerned, and it does not even commit a part of the possible extraction. Of course, apart from the fact that there is no control over what is being investigated and what results, there is not even a strict framework for dealing with the high level of occupational risk, which, together with reduced environmental protection guarantees, creates risks of massive, large-scale accidents. It is true that in previous studies, for previous contracts, reference was not made to environmental studies in the event of a leak of toxic waste. We're doing research on hydrocarbon extraction, and there's no such reference! What environmental studies are these? There is no mention of the fact that the Ionian is depleted by depleted uranium bombs from NATO's imperialist intervention and Yugoslavia's division, as well as there is no reference to these studies - and in the past and today's - that these mining will take place in an entirely seismic region. No microzonal study of how and when these can be done. And of course, there is so much arbitraryness and immunity both from the previous and current government, which does not even have maritime spatial planning. So anyone can do anything they want, whatever they want. From this point of view, the results and painful effects will be evident. The fourth element we want to put is the method of allocating these surveys and exploiting any hydrocarbon deposits. These contracts are signed on the substance without any kind of State knowledge of the content of the holding. In other words, we grant land of unknown value. In fact, even after the investigations, the State cannot be fully aware of the results of the investigations, because it has not ensured that the results of research carried out by the company are also transferred to the State. It is not even possible to do that, and it says that it will put a committee of experts who will monitor the data. What evidence? What the company's gonna give her. And you're talking about the huge values and huge revenues that the state will have! We therefore call these conventions and robberies because, apart from being at the expense of the interests and needs of the people, at the expense of the environment, the undertakings in which the concession is granted will try to manage any hydrocarbon reservoir they find solely and not only by using the whole look, but the part that is the most efficient and the most profitable. The third element of this robbery is the fact that this will all be calculated on the basis that it will be untreated the fuel that will come out. You understand very well what speculation will take place, when there are triangular transactions between multinational subsidiaries, so that huge revenues that these multinationals will have from the exploitation of the hydrocarbons in the region are hidden. So you are selling for a piece of bread the country's mineral wealth to the multinationals, you are undermining the country's sovereign rights, you are undermining the Greek people's right to use the mineral wealth for its own account and you are undermining the protection of the environment. That is where these conventions lead, and that is why the JRC is voting against all four conventions and the relevant law sanctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u18	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our report to the Committee on Trade we mentioned that these conventions are very important for the economy and the future of our country. We are therefore unable to understand the urgency procedure adopted by the government at just one meeting of the committee which has just been given us twelve minutes to analyse four contracts with a number of articles. However, we have referred to as many articles as we have been able to make our reservations and with proposals for change we have set out our numerical calculations while analyzing environmental and tourism consequences. We also stressed that it is not right for a country to rely only on tourism, that a balanced development is needed. Finally, we have raised various questions which have not been answered by the State Secretary. We hope that the Minister will answer them today. However, we are still wondering why the troika and successive governments of the memoranda which impose on us have never dealt with the creation of wealth in our country, such as the exploitation of our energy reserves. They did not really have the aim of developing our economy so that public debt can be properly served? Their aim was only to protect our public and private assets? In the conventions now, we are certainly not satisfied that they are coming for ratification today. The reason for this is that they were too late, when we knew several years ago that there were deposits. The President of the Greek Solution, but also many others, referred to the issue as early as 2007, if not earlier. However, these reports were ignored and obviously used so that one would not dare discuss the existing potential of our country. There were also articles and revelations of Wikileaks, according to which the American Geological Service had already known since 2007 about the important deposits south of Crete. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, however, Mr Papandreou in 2009 insisted, for reasons he knows, if not just to lead us to the IMF, that there are no oil. I'm also tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] While followed by a report by Deutsche Bank in 2012 on the basis of which the Greek deposits are worth up to EUR 427 billion, with the estimated net benefit for the State of EUR 214 billion, the co-operation government of the parties that overrun until 2009 and later bankrupt Greece by mismanagement signed the destructive PSI with which Greece was promised and handed over its national sovereignty. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, there has been a framework for investigations since the 1990s with Law 2289/1995, which also governs current contracts. In addition, Greece could probably have avoided the crisis if it had exploited its energy stocks since 2007 or even during the memos. Continuing to the present conventions, our question is not whether they will be ratified, having already been put in a positive position, but whether they will be launched in the right way, especially because it is estimated that dependence on oil internationally will begin to fall significantly after thirty years. Therefore, it is perhaps our last chance to make use of any look in our country, unless we want to stay buried forever. So if we lose the eight years of the investigation period that companies require with contracts or without the EEZ being settled, then it will be too late, because there will be about twenty years left for research and exploitation, which are considered too little to recover the research cost. That is to say, our underground wealth will be indifferent to the large companies with the necessary know-how and potential for large-scale mining. Our main opposition, however, concerns the two conventions south and west of Crete, which were signed a few days before the elections by SYRIZA, in which the American "EXXONMOBIL" and the French "TOTAL" participate. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, compared to the remaining contracts, it has a lower minimum cost, i.e. EUR 37.5 million per contract for about twenty thousand square kilometres, when in Plot 10 the minimum cost for three thousand four hundred twenty-sq km is EUR 31 million, in Ionian EUR 35.4 million for six thousand six thousand seventy-seven thousand kilometres and in Patraikos EUR 32 million for a thousand eight hundred square kilometres. So the minimum spending on Crete should have been up to ten times higher on the Patraikos criteria, that is, up to 750 million euros, instead of just 75 million euros. Even worse, for these two conventions, the consortium commits to doing research into three thousand and fifty square kilometres in the first three years and in just a thousand and a half square kilometres in the next three stages against a minimum cost of EUR 12.5 million, without even a drilling that will take place in the last two years of the eight-year contract. The risk here is obvious, namely finding nothing in the six years that they will investigate one quarter of the area they will commit, so with a very small sum of blocking or delaying the whole process. There are many other imperfections in the contracts, and we have already tabled our reservations to the Committee on Trade on their legal and computing aspects. However, we have been informed that the conventions are signed and do not change, which means that our references are just for the eyes of the world and that they are not given any significance, that everything is predetermined, so we are discussing them today without any real reason. There is, of course, the optimistic scenario, according to which companies know exactly where to do drilling, so that they do not have to investigate the whole region or spend a lot of money. However, we should not be reassured, so we are proposing that the two contracts in Crete be amended at least in the following way. Firstly, to increase the minimum cost to at least five times, secondly, to make the research period shorter, for example, from eight years to five, thirdly, to be able to auction the areas released by the lessee. If, at the moment, the contracts cannot be modified, they must be checked for their faithful application, so if there is evidence that they are not complied with, the lessee must be reported and declared less than eight years before the eight years have been completed. In any case, we will vote against Article 3.2, which concerns the minimum expenditure on the contracts in Crete, considering that it is incomprehensible for the country, and constitutes an unacceptable discrimination compared to the other contracts. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, apart from the issue of founders in Kastelorizo, which we referred to in our report, we have the following additional questions. Firstly, the deposits in the Aegean region are probably richer, but no EEZ has been established and we cannot exploit them. Only in Herodotus basin are estimated at one and a half billion cubic metres, worth up to 300 billion euros from Professor Foskolos. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is it possible to define the EEZ in the near future, or should we forget it? Secondly, while the Convention on the French overseas islands has been signed, it has not yet been ratified. Why? When will it be ratified? Third, the explanatory memorandum states the importance of the contracts in relation to the TAP pipeline to strengthen the role of Greece as an energy hub. There is no reference, however, to the EastMed pipeline from Cyprus to Crete, to the western Peloponnese and to western Greece, which is actually planned for the use of all the deposits. Is that just negligence? Fourthly, in the powerpoint which the Deputy Minister has given us, it is stated that the benefit of Greece of the four contracts will be EUR 140 million. However, by analyzing the contracts, we have found that only if the minimum cost of mining companies is not incurred, then such a sum is for the public, in fact, EUR 141.4 million. Did we get it right or did we do it wrong? However, according to our calculations, the real benefit will be much less. I'm filing our calculations in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fifthly, Article 3.11 states that in the event of the employee resignation at any stage of work, he must remove his premises from the area of work, seal drilling and restore the environment as far as possible to the condition that it was prior to the date of entry into force. The term 'as far as possible' is entirely subjective. Who evaluates and to what extent is the reintroduction of the environment? In other words, if environmental damage is caused at removal or at a later time, who will be responsible, since full environmental recovery is not clearly mentioned at 100% and not at the potential level referred to in that Article? Sixth, in Annex g, for example, in the parent company’s support letter, reference is made to the International Arbitration Law and French law. Can or is it right, really, that the Greek courts and the Greek law be circumvented? In conclusion, I will say that the Greek Solution believes that the utilities, as well as the strategic businesses, must belong to the public, naturally operating on private economic criteria, while all the rest in the private sector. So we believe it is very important for our economy that Greek Petroleum, the largest company in the Balkans, like all other energy companies, remain the ownership of the Greek state, especially since Greece has energy reserves. After all, the sale of the proportion of Greek oil, which is also involved with 35% in the PPA, would only bring EUR 600 to 650 million to the State, without the discounts normally claimed by international buyers or the Stock Exchange. We therefore believe that it is in no way appropriate to sell them, especially when oil is likely to be found, to increase their value and to keep the know-how in our country. Because energy reserves are now a curse rather than a wish when a country is undisturbed like Greece, we consider it necessary to increase our defence expenditure at the same time. It is therefore unacceptable to close companies like the Greek Vehicle Industry, for which we have tabled a detailed question to the relevant Minister. More generally, however, with regard to contracts, especially those in Crete, they are very attractive to leasers, but of doubtful interest to the Greek State, and they are a bad precedent for the next ones. We hope, however, that it will be amended because we no longer have the luxury of not ratifying them. The primary sector, however, by transforming it and industry, including the energy sector, which produce most jobs with decent wages, are necessary industries for Greece to develop rationally, while tourism cannot be considered as the country's heavy industry, especially when almost 85% of its needs are imported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Criton Arsenis, special speaker from Mera25. Before reaching Stepma, my colleague, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-two students and students and two of their teachers from the 2nd Elementary School of Nea Artakis Evia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] First of all, I would like to apologise to these people who were burned in Moria. What happened in Moria is no accidental, it is a state policy to be an example to avoid, to be a college, so that refugees don't come here. These people who go through the war must pass through the smugglers from Turkey. Those who survive cross the sea and reach Moria to die. It is really a reproach for our society and I do not accept any government to do so in my name. I am not represented by any government. I am not represented by the government that does it, and has as an option for Moria to become a college. Not in our name. But something similar is going on in our seas: right now, south of Crete is a miracle of nature. While whale blowers normally need open seas, a large population of blowers, marine mammals, who live, are born and fed only in the south of Crete, in the so-called "Greek moat". In the three thousand metres depth, exactly where these contracts plan to make mining and seismic research. Very recently, we had the earthquake in Athens. An earthquake with three post-seisms that shakes us, frightened us. With seismic research, this earthquake, this situation will be daily in the home of these mammals. When they leave the animals that feed them and the animals themselves from there - because that is what we would do, if for a month, two months, we have continued to accept earthquakes and bombings - then very simply may not survive again, they may not come back. The impact on the marine environment will be shocking. And when their house is destroyed, our house will be next. We have no idea what these mammals are doing in the marine environment, but we know that we will find out when they leave. And the consequences will be dramatic. At the same time, our home is burned by climate change. They tell us that the Prime Minister told us on the UN step, that Greece will take the lead in the fight against climate change. How do you do mining? A simple number: if all existing mining, all the oil and gas that exist - not in new mining - is burning, used for transport, for the rest of energy, then the global warming will exceed three degrees Celsius. Three degrees Celsius is twice what scientists tell us is the limit of the survival of mankind, not the new mining, only with the existing ones, to understand what we are signing today. The Greek mining that the House is currently ratifying and we call for this ratification not to take place will go further than all three degrees Celsius. I am going to be honest, for all these reasons these mining is not going to be done. As the Greek state suddenly discovered with surprise that PPC, lignite plants are not viable, due to taxation on climate change, so it will soon discover that oil and gas extraction will not be viable, precisely because taxes will come for this activity. One simple example, at the moment, is the International Energy Agency that supports all of this mining industry, although it is in the UN, which has so far been ostracizing, saying that there is no climate change, in any scenario of its analysis. Now, in a few days' time, it announces the necessary measures to adapt the industry so that we succeed in not exceeding one and a half degrees of temperature increase. What comes - and the climate change measures are constantly changing - is a tax on these activities too. Along with electric cars, which is the new technology we have in front of us, which will grow very quickly in the next five years, there will also be a reduction in demand for oil and gas. What will happen is that, very simply, these precise developments, either because of the coal tax, or because of the reduction in demand, will not be implemented. But what's going to happen? There will be seismic investigations that will do the damage to our seas. And once mining is carried out and investment becomes more important: most of the ELPEs will go bankrupt. Because if we invest in these mining and then by reducing prices and carbon taxation - which is coming - and in fact they go bankrupt, what will follow - is the second largest industry together after PPC - the Greek State will have to put its hands on loans and debt to undo them again. That is the future we have before us. So whoever cares about the environment, about climate change or about the economy should vote today against this ratification. If the government's optimistic scenario is to implement these mining, you know what it means to tourism. International studies have now shown that a major accident in the Greek seas will exceed EUR 5 billion for tourism, that year alone, while revenues are detached. We are already seeing the increase in the aggression of Turkey, which also means an increase in armaments and an increase in armaments due to mining will result in costs being more than any mining revenue. Either way, this mining story is a loss for Greece. That is why Merra25 is, unfortunately, the only party in this House that says that these oil, this gas, must stay on the bottom forever and not touch them, not because the conventions only benefit the rich, the multinationals. We disagree with that, but that is not the issue. The question is, in any case, they are injurious to the planet. That is why, because we hear many Members differentiate, we asked for a roll-call vote on these conventions so that all our colleagues could be given the opportunity to sit down, because history is now written in this Chamber. And history will judge us for what follows. Because you ask me where to invest, let us follow the international examples. Italy: Moratorium in new mining. Spain: Cancel mines and moratorium in any new one. Portugal: Cancellation of mining. France: Cancel mines and basically moratorium in any mining. Norway: Cancel new minings, moratorium. What worldwide example do we follow? What these countries are doing is now setting targets for renewable energy. They set targets for technologies, not of the past, because once they were the oil, even though they destroyed the planet with climate change. It's no longer. They're not peak technologies. They are the dinosaurs of technology, those who are now overrun. Top technologies are renewable energy sources. And the countries that will qualify, which will win tomorrow's bet, are the ones that will invest in these technologies, so that we can have 100% energy from the RES, so that we can have the energy that can benefit the Greek family with the photovoltaics on the roofs, with all the technological areas they need. If we do not invest there, we will again find ourselves in the chasing of the old one, what once brought wealth for some and destruction for all, mining. We will not do it with our vote. We'll say clearly no. The industries that will be involved in these mining should also be aware that movements and politicians, many political leaders in this Chamber, will be against them tomorrow, in the face of the destruction that they are going to bring, either with secret investigations or with any other work, with mining on earth and on the sea. Today, at six o'clock in the afternoon, there is a great gathering of movements outside the House. Citizens across Greece are shouting against mining. Let's hear them because they're really right. Mining is against the environment, climate change and cheap pockets of every Greek citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u22	We will now give the floor to the last two special speakers from the Change Movement, with Mr Goka, who will be followed by Mr Katrinis, who will complete the circle of speeches by the rapporteurs and special speakers. The Minister will then speak, and then the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, and then Mr Varoufakis, on behalf of Mera25, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, just a minute. Special speakers are over and the Minister asked to speak before me. And I said the Minister can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u24	I say the special speakers are over after Mr. Goca and Mr. Katrin, and the cycle is over, and then the Minister will be there. But that's the turn, Mr. Velopoulou. You've been informed of this. And then you, Mr Varoufakis, Members of Parliament, spokesmen, etc. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of my introduction to the Convention on the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the maritime area of 'Ionian, Western Greece', since the four conventions under discussion today have been deposited for ratification in Parliament, I would like to stress that, as far as our national sovereign rights are concerned, the most important thing that has happened since 1974 is to carry out these investigations of hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean regions affected by our country and regardless of the limits of the EEZ, as other countries in the region do. For the first time in 2014, national sovereign rights, the country's development prospects and social solidarity were linked to an important wealthy resource in the country and a framework was established for transparency, environmental protection and the security of research and mining activity under the supervision of the Greek hydrocarbon management company. The expected benefits - and I quote before, in summary, - relate to the significant revenues for the region with 5% of revenue and the Green Fund, which receives 20% for projects of environmental importance in the region where these activities are being developed. The public takes over 20% of income taxation and with a proposal for a PASOK law of 75% for the national account of the Social Solidarity Fund and supports the insurance system, especially for young people in the future, as well as the creation of jobs with an obligation to recruit and train staff at local level. Ladies and gentlemen, our prolongation has been linked to the lengthy course and continuity of the legal framework for the use and shaping of the conditions for the exploitation of the mineral wealth of hydrocarbons. In addition to the laws under Law 4001/2011, as well as the laws of 2013 on the Solidarity Fund, Law 4162, as well as the ratification of the 2014 conventions, the Law 2289/95, which was subsequently updated by Law 4001 of 2011, was initially preceded by Law 2289/95. We have historically determined developments in this area since 1999 with the Prenos Convention with Minister of Industry then Mr. Venizelos and then we had the number of legislation by 2014 and the initiatives that were in place on the part of our prolongation with Minister Giannis Maniotis. Some of these were not passed by the New Democracy, while SYRIZA did not vote for anything. SYRIZA over the years has always spoken contradictoryly with a climax today's conventions signed by Minister of SYRIZA, but they are not today voted by SYRIZA himself. Of course, when you signed, ladies and gentlemen, were these conventions on condition that they should only apply if you are a permanent government? Because all you say on the pretext of selling ELPE share is a consequence of your own policy in the first half of the 1915s which led to the third memorandum. You have committed the country to the existence of 500 million ELPE revenues. You are now cutting off to SYRIZA for the sale of ELPE's share, when you mortgaged the place and the most dynamic companies in the superstition! Of course, the issue of the ELPEs, as Mr Arvanidis said in detail, must be discussed on the basis of his decisive role in energy policy in the country in relation to the public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the impact on the environment and the consequences on local communities, but also to the great debate on these issues, because many questions are raised. What about environmental impact studies in cases not covered by seismic research? How much is our policy to commit to fossil fuels as a country in relation to the targets we have for renewable energy? What about the mining in protected areas? What international conventions have we not ratified and regulated research and mining in marine areas? These are questions which must also be answered for your part, Minister. We say that, on the one hand, strict controls must be carried out with the control body specifically for these areas and activities, which must be under the supervision of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company and, on the other hand, there must be continuous updates of environmental impact studies and incorporation of new directives and regulations, because the bet is "is in the use of hydrocarbons, but with the preservation and protection of the environment". That must be our main objective. There are, of course, differences between terrestrial and maritime zones and especially the Ionian Sea Zone, for which I am a special speaker, the road, ladies and gentlemen, is open to us. There is Directive 2013/30 on the protection of offshore mining formulated by us in PASOK in the Environment Council and in the Energy Council of Ministers and in the Member States that wanted much lighter procedures. The experience of Prenos must be exploited, thirty-five years, Prinos has given 125 million barrels without any problem. Let us look at this, so that in the very important sectors of fisheries and tourism there is no negative impact. Finally - and I close, Mr President - both the Minister and the government as a whole are calling for answers on how mining and research is progressing in various regions, what are there, what are the expected revenues from the new data and whether we will also have new concessions? Why don't we just go in no way into the New Democracy game that aims to show a picture of the readiness for everything and an investment climate that changes without it actually occurring? And, of course, the answers requested for the ELPEs, as expressed by my colleague, MP, Mr Arvanitides, should be given. Also, the Minister should answer which legislative initiatives you intend to take, in order to have maximum environmental protection safety, covering all the issues mentioned above or which may arise subsequently, by continuous update of the studies and incorporation of new specifications and requirements. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, MP SYRIZA I Thessaloniki, Alexandros Triantafylides, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u27	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing four sanctions for contracts, one of which I have the honour of proposing, the one concerning the maritime region west of Crete, which is an intermediate stage on a road path, a road map drawn up in 2011. And for exploration, production and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the country. It is of particular importance that the reference to the timing at which this whole process began, in 2011, with a PASOK government in a very charged political environment, where then it dominated the sense of rage and conspiracy in the square, just outside, but also throughout the territory, when some people talked about projects that were only made to mortgage the public property of the country and asked why, at last, for so many years, the oil and hydrocarbons deposits in the country have not been exploited. In all this, then, the PASOK government responded in 2011, effectively opening the way we are walking today, with various turbulence and delays, but I believe, with common anxiety and common understanding. This roadmap also had another intermediate attitude, in 2013, when a proposal from the PASOK Parliamentary Group was tabled again on the initiative of a legal proposal concerning the direction of revenues of 70% of hydrocarbons in the Generation Solidarity Fund and the insurance system. Because we, of course, have been taking care of this since then, not only because we have seen what is being done today and the effort made by the Government and the Minister of Labour to lead insurance only to the private sector, but indeed because we wanted to support the country's insurance system. 20% of revenue goes to the Green Fund, 5% to local government and 5% to education, which our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, rightly said, must also have a correction to include the part of postgraduate programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today pleased to discuss these four conventions, precisely because it was a political decision by the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Maniotis. On the contrary, with the rest of the countries that, as you know very well, are classified contracts and are not even put to a similar debate in the House, how much more of them are made public on official websites of the Ministry or bodies of the General Government. It was therefore a political decision of the Minister then, of Giannis Maniatis, to be everything in light, to have debate, to have consultation, to raise the concerns, different views and to achieve the best possible result. Of course, from 2015 until today there has been a period of delay, which, in our view, was not justified. There was a period of political contradiction, when the government, while opposition voted against the alpha convention, as a government, introduced and voted for identical contracts and today returns to the conventions which it itself had discussed, codecisiond and signed a disagreement, because the way the ELPEs operate is changing, the same government as the Memorandum which signed the privatisation process. I do not know whether the previous government or SYRIZA today had a say in the consortiums that take on hydrocarbons, so that they can be so sure that the possible privatisation of ELPEs will also change the nature of the consortium in which the Greek Petroleum is involved. It is for us that the public character of ELPEs is strategic and important, because we consider it to be a lever for the development and restructuring of energy policy in the country. The government must clarify what percentage it intends to sell, on what time horizon and how it will, of course, be able to balance the EUR 75 million returns, which are intended for the Greek State every year from the Greek oil turnover. This does not mean, however, that we cannot agree that these conventions and in general the policy adopted since 2011 actually upgrade the country's geopolitical position. And that is what we say, including in our minds and all that is being done in the wider region concerning, in particular, the energy, in particular, part and, of course, the exercise of sovereign rights, which I think is in a way that is essential and I would say emblematic. All this, of course, in the light of sustainable development, social justice, which has always been the dominant in our political views, with jobs and development for the local society, no matter how many people are trying to reduce it. Of course, however, we must - and that is justified - take all the provisions for environmental protection. Here too, we are, in fact, humiliating the legitimate concerns and concerns of both actors and environmental organisations. That is why, Minister, I believe that the maximum provision should be made for all environmental studies and the terms and strict standards, which I think should be followed and described as such, with emphasis on fisheries and tourism, which should not be affected, not in a reasonable risk, but in real terms. I very rightly believe, Minister, that the course of the conventions that have already been signed by Parliament should also be seen if the benefits, which one hears and thinks are unthinkable in thirty years' time, are ultimately being realised by the Greek citizens, by all those who listen to us at the moment and receive different messages, and that this is in the interests of the country, but also of the people themselves. In conclusion, Minister, since you are here, like Mr Thomas, and because we are talking about hydrocarbons and at a recent meeting in the wake of the crisis in the Middle East, you seem very reassuring that they will not have any impact on the Greek market - one minister said that because companies have bought at lower prices there will be no increase in oil - and because you had signed a year ago a question asking to double the amount for the heating allowance, I would like to ask you if you have taken a decision on this, I mean, as a government as a whole, to increase the heating allowance. That is because there are too many of our fellow citizens, particularly in northern Greece who are listening to us right now, who are reasonably concerned and have no public commitment, especially by the Prime Minister, who in Thessaloniki announced seventeen measures of tax relief, but he said nothing about this very sensitive and very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u29	The circle of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. We will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hadjidakis, and then, as I said before, the two parliamentary groups, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 will follow. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. "Today, Greece, apart from a country that is a critical energy hub in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans, begins the implementation of a project aimed at transforming it into a energy producer country. The agreement marks the development by Greece of its own EEZ in the footsteps of the other states in the region. The investment that is now signed for the exploration and exploitation of possible hydrocarbon deposits is a vote of confidence in the potential of Greece and the Greek economy. Greece, like Cyprus, is moving ahead with well-designed and coordinated steps to exploit our energy resources and we are not making moves to serve communication purposes, but to give our peoples, generations of the future, perspective, economic prosperity and security." Ladies and gentlemen, what I said is Alexis Tsipras' words on June 27, 2019, ten days before the elections. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is one of the few cases where I happen to agree to a large extent with Mr Tsipras, but of course he began to disagree with himself! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because today, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have told us quite different things. I don't want to describe them. They can put any title they want in your places. We've seen cubisms, we've seen changes of positions from people in Greece and abroad. So brief, however, and an impressive political situation, I admit that I do not remember. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] And I want to tell you something confessively. We were coming to the Committee of Parliament to recognize the contribution of Yiannis Maniatis and George Stathakis to the work that has been done on hydrocarbons over the last few years and we thought that SYRIZA would be ready if we did some wrong political move and said two more words about these contracts, saying that we are coming to consider his own work. That was our concern! And that's where SYRIZA came from denounces his own contracts, which signed ten days before the elections at a festive event in the center of Athens, in the presence of him, the then Prime Minister and speaker of Mr. Tsipras himself! It's something to remember. Life is the best movie scenario. There are always surprises so that in our lives we can move forward without harming ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand what you're going to say on the SYRIZA side. You will say that yes, things have changed, because we now have the privatisation of the ELPEs. I shall therefore turn to the privatization of the ELPEs. I have here various agreements of the SYRIZA Government with the troika in its various forms, institutions, memorandum and memorandum supervision. I'm not going to read it to you, I'm going to testify to this in the Minutes. I am choosing the last agreement, which was the report of enhanced supervision in June 2019. I read from the original text. He refers to ELPEs and says: "An agreement was required from the Greek authorities and the institutions that are responsible for the technological change to explore all options available towards procuring with the translation". I translate: "According to ELPE an agreement was reached between the Greek authorities, i.e. the Tsipras Government, and the institutions that Tsipras receive an order to study all available options in the direction of moving forward, namely privatisation." That's what you agreed to, and today you're complaining to us! You're condemning yourself! But I don't know what power is pushing you to do it. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You said the Prime Minister spoke in an interview with the "BLOOMBERG". And what did he say? You said it yourself. He said what your agreement says, that the GOI is studying all options in relation to further privatisation of the ELPEs. What you agreed to, that is what we are studying, and that is what the S.H.I.E.L.D. is studying to do. And what else did the Prime Minister say, as Mr Zachariadis said? He said we would try to further privatize it on good and beneficial terms. What do you want? Don't do that? It is therefore a government commitment that we are moving in the direction you have agreed on. It examines all the options and we will obviously judge on the basis of the public interest and the national interest. And I urge you not to be quick because you may also be exposed to it. Tell me what wet wet, what wet wet? You don't care that much. But I just have to warn you. As also, I must warn you of what you said - you have immediately reached the conclusion - that the public will be withdrawn from the PPE in relation to the drilling. There's no shareholders' agreement, there's nothing tangible about it. There's a creature of your imagination on the basis of which you charge yourself and place yourself. So I tell you, Mr Zachariadis, because you are a young man and I appreciate that you do not get carried away by such considerations, because the pear may have the tail behind it. I do not want to say anything more at this point, because the TIAD is responsible and the whole effort has just begun. I would therefore ask you, as many as you are younger and ambitious in politics, such as Mr Zachariadis, to avoid traditional political methods. Mr Zachariadis did not follow them and he really surprised me with his position. But I want to continue with the ELPEs. We do not intend the public to withdraw from the ELPE as a whole, but even if we were, I would like to stand by the following: I want to stress that the ELPEs in two of the four conventions participate at 20%. Administrator, in these contracts, ELPEs are only in one. I would also like to focus on the fact that by definition, because we are talking about international conventions, throughout Europe and throughout the world, since it is an international competition, the competition cannot have a preconceived effect and we should know that the winner of the competition will be the ELPEs or any company. That's what common sense says. But, if I may even convince you about your concerns, I will show you here - and I will present it to the House - what you, SYRIZA, have done, in relation to the participation of ELPEs in competitions and plots. I have the map of Greece here. Here we have the individual concessions. I see on the map of Greece, Ioannina. We had REPSOL and ENERGEAN, a Spanish company and a Greek private company. ENERGEAN has left and, by decision of your own Ministers, REPSOL has done so alone. No Greek company, only the Spaniards. Isn't that what you're worried about, based on the logic you developed here today, moving your finger? Aren't you worried? You did it. And I'm going down to the map, Ado-Carnania. There has been a contract for the plot of Aitolokarnania for the days of SYRIZA. You voted for it with your votes in the House. We also voted for it, but you had the initiative. Who are the contractors? ‘REPSOL’, the Spanish company, and ‘ENERGEAN’. That's not what you're worried about. You're not worried it's a Greek company 100% private. You are concerned that the ELPEs can partly be privatised further and therefore you are not voting on today's contracts. Find them with yourself. I think you need some sort of political psychotherapy in relation to your locations. I really can't figure it out. I'm declaring a glimpse. It has never happened to me since 2007, when I am a Member of the Greek Parliament. And I would ask Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, who I know is a serious man and we have nursed together in the European Parliament for this unprecedented example, which, I think - I have no reason to make you the policy adviser - exposes you, seriously hurts you and creates a merciful picture around the Anti-Population Officer's party. I'm filing the map in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the abovementioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the concerns which I hear and take them seriously, in relation to climate change. What is the government's main direction? The government's direction is yes, obviously to strengthen the energy mix in Greece the participation of renewable energy sources and actively strengthen it. In this direction is the responsible Deputy Minister of Energy, Mr Gerasimos Thomas, who is also invited to implement good European practices in Greece, what he had learned to do so many years, as a senior executive, as the European Commission's Deputy Director-General for Energy. Indeed, he shares with you, with those who have such concerns, but also with me, this very reflection, climate change, renewable energy sources. The Prime Minister spoke at the United Nations Conference and was clear about climate change, but also about the liberation of PPC. And no matter how you measure it, we are the first Greek government to progress with courage and without delay with deflation. We are also going on for economic reasons and, of course, environmental reasons. And that's not what you can take away from us. Obviously, then, the mixture of our energy policy will have a much greater involvement of renewable energy sources and it is indicative that two non-governmental environmental organisations are involved for the first time in the preparation of the national plan on energy and climate for the first time. GREANPEACE and WWF are on the same table together. This is also the case for the first time. I've spoken to a recent speech in Thessaloniki about natural gas. I have said that Greece because it is very back in relation to other European countries, natural gas will be a transition fuel. In the short term, its participation in the market will go up, but the end is on the basis of the Paris Agreement and the country's commitments within the European Union to go to what you have asked us to go, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We obviously respect the country's international commitments to climate change and that's where we're going. Of course, we have the issue of hydrocarbons extracts. Okay, it's not your basic choice for coal and mining. Your choice is to turn towards renewable energy sources. The question is why don't you stop all this effort? Because all the countries of our neighbourhood are making this effort, so that all the countries of Europe are not to tell you. They haven't stopped their mines. The mining process is normally continuing everywhere. Of course, there is a differentiation from country to country. The old mines, however, have not stopped anywhere. The country has also been late in this area. It is not, if you like, the prospect of the country doing mining forever when Europe's policy goes in the other direction, but it is not the country's policy to see Turkey doing mining, seeing Cyprus doing mining, seeing Egypt doing mining, seeing Italy doing mining, and we do not do it. How's that gonna happen? By respecting all the necessary environmental conditions, all the necessary conditions, because there are international standards and these strict standards we observe. On this subject, I would also like to reply to Mr Karathanasopoulos, who said 'you do it about the way it comes'. But you have the treaty, you have the conventions we are currently dominating. Read Articles 4 and 5. I think they are giving answers and the answers are perfectly clear in relation to environmental conditions. I have no doubt that Mr Arsenis, on the side of Mera25, believes deeply what he says. I have no doubt about that, but I would like to remind him, from the information I have at least, that in 2013 he had spoken to this tone about the Norwegian vessel 'PGS', which started to do seismographic surveys in the wider region, to prepare the drilling and Mr Arsenis had again noted the same issues with regard to mammals. The surveys of the Norwegian vessel were carried out, the international standards were observed, there were three mammals observers on board, precisely because of this sensitivity. I'm not talking about our own business, nor my own business, another was Minister at the time, it was Mr. Maniatis, and in the end nothing happened. Therefore, Mr Arsenis, I am with you on environmental concerns, but I cannot be with you in the excesses. I think so. You can judge me in your own way in relation to the policy we are presenting today, but I think I have international experience, international practices and practices even from the case of Greece. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, to close, today we are bringing four conventions, which were signed by the previous government. I consider these conventions to be beneficial national, beneficial economic, beneficial in all respects for our country, without harming the environment. I am sorry, because it is only me and the government that sees it in this way and the fact that the party which signed the conventions does not see it. It is something that will be recorded in the Minutes of the Greek Parliament, it will also be recorded in the memory of the Greeks, and when we are sad at various problems, we will discuss it to have fun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight Dutch students and students and four teachers - attending the Het Rheedens School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before giving the floor to Mr Velopoulos, Mr Arsenis has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u32	But he didn't, Madam President. Staff is when somebody gets hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u33	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Because Mr Hatzidakis mentioned whether these sensitivities are serious, I would just like to say what happened, that there is a restoration and that people also know how serious this is. The "Greek moat" is under Crete. It's not where the Ionian investigations took place. Now it's where we're going to bomb with the seismic investigations the only place where the whales are born. It's like we're going to bomb every carpet nesting beach. That's the equivalent we're going to do. I also want to say that there were not three observers on board. It was just one for 24-hour shifts and we haven't seen the results of the study yet. Italy is investigating before the situation, during mining, and then again has stopped mining from now on. He's got a moratorium now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u36	There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I apologise and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u38	It's not a personal matter. Mr. Arsenis is sensitive to the whales. We have more people. The ecological sensitivities are good. We're a little - very, very sensitive. Of course, because you are talking about tourism, let me tell you that the plastic bottle from the tourists goes cloud to the beaches as well as to the Greeks. It's not panacea. It is good to say that we are sensitive to ecology, with green growth, with climate change, with everything, but they are not about our country, not just about Greece. We have an introvert to what we say many times, that it all starts and ends from Greece. Yeah, but it's not panacea. I see you have i-phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u39	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u40	And your chief has a cell phone. The smartphones, you know how it's done? Of rare earths. Do you know what it means rarely, sons? Toxic waste. Drop it. To be economists, not just economists in the drills of Hatzidakis or PASOK or SYRIZA. Be generally economists. Listen, I understand that culture means green growth, climate change. I get it. You want to gain from young children the sensitivity, because that's where you're addressing many, at the sensitive point of emotion. So since you're economists, don't drive cars, don't burn petrol, don't go on the plane, don't have i-phones, to believe you already. You live in the age of caves. Let me get this straight. And because I want to tell you one more thing about the windmills you love very much, I understand, they have thirty years of life. And these are with rare earths. It's toxic waste full of. If you go where the mining takes place, in China, at a certain point, it's generally...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u41	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u42	For wind turbines, Mr. Loverdo, how they're done for their construction. Insides have rare earths, otherwise there's no wind turbines. So where's the toxic waste going? Because, he says, we want to leave oil, leave natural gas - which is ecological gas in relation to oil always and hydrocarbons - and you want to deal with wind turbines, he says. Let's see the wind turbines. And a man who has been yelling here since 2007 for gas and oil, Mr. Hatzidakis and New Democracy have been laughing. They made fun of me. They told me there was nothing. There was PASOK President, Mr Loverdos, Mr Papandreou, who said that there are no oil and that these are fairy tales. Everyone said the same thing in here, and I was the graphics. If we started in 2007, seven years of research in 2014, we'd be doing mining. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Today I should be happy, but I'm disappointed. Why? Because we went bankrupt, and then we took it seriously with the Maniot. And if you ask Yannis Maniotis, the former minister will tell you that I was the only one who helped him in this story. Because it's not just oil, it's hydrogen. Hydrogen is an ecological mineral. Look a little bit longer. You have learned about climate change now and you have all become experts on climate change. In other words, climate change is due to the fact of the exhaust gases. Don't fly on planes. Don't go with cars. Hydrocarbons provide 80% of global energy. The 2% reduction in hydrocarbons resulted in over 2 trillion for alternative sources, wind turbines and green growth. We've given two trillions of euros all over the world. In 2040, according to the German Ministry of Transport, four hundred million electric vehicles will run. That's the target. It will replace 5% of world oil demand. The climate has been saved! 5% if four hundred million electric cars run. Let's go to the other substance. Solar and wind provide less than 2% of global energy. Aircraft from America and Asia needs batteries five times its weight to be electrical. Okay, if we lived in 2080 or 2100, that could have happened with the telekinesis. It can't be done. Listen, technology gives you potential. That's all I want. I'd like there to be a car that only moves around. To fly, no fuel, nothing. It can't be done. Unless you have spaceships of your own that travel with the air and go to America with the air. Well, it can't be. Take a balloon to go to America. Another thing we want is what we can do. In politics you apply what you want on the basis of the facts, otherwise it's not politics, it's culture. I'm starting this way, but I'd really like to get into it. Minister, I'll say it. You're lying, too, and SYRIZA. Why don't you determine EOZ? Specify EOZ. Since 2007, I have been saying: Determination of the EEZ to know what our land is. What are you doing now? You have a house, you want to build the house, but you haven't set the plot. You have not defined it and go and build it in the middle of the plot, where you want it. Here, set an EOZ. If we determine EEZ, there's a lot of our suffering with Turkey. It will have to resort to an international court, at least to the International Court of Justice, which for me is not a solution, but that will answer whether we are right. Because we're right about AOZ. The Prime Minister of the country comes out, but - the Prime Minister of the country lives in a world - and after he has acquitted Mr. Tsipras for the Eye, after he has acquitted Mr. Tsipras for 'NOVARTIS', he comes and tells us: He told the UN. When did this end, Mr. Hatzidakis? Tell me when the arms and the powerful in the world ended. At the time of caves? At the time of the Roman Empire, the Ottoman, the Hellenistic Period, the Byzantium, in World War I, in World War II, when did the time of the mighty end? But the age of the mighty is always the time, the age of the weapons. But with the guns you're imposing the defense. It can't be with peace. You're preparing with guns to have peace. It is also addressed to Turkey. I don't understand why he said that. Of course, he said the other unbelievable to the UN. He said that Greece would abolish lignites. You know, I have a special relationship with Germany and Poland, Minister. Why do they use lignites? Tell me. Why does it save and well, do you want to abolish lignites that are 300,000, 000, 000 euros stored? I know what I'm telling you, Minister. Germany uses lignites. It's like I'm telling you. In Essen I was born and raised, even now Germany is using lignites. The same goes for many countries in Europe. You are the only mineral that we have that is unimported you want to abolish in 2020 or 2023, as he said. What for? Did we find anything else? Did you find the cobalt? Did you find any other mineral that makes energy production? Oh, no. Why shut it down? It's amazing stuff. Because many of us have delusionality here and we are talking about Italy as a friendly country. But Italy does not agree to establish an EEZ in the west, Minister. Do you know why? Because on the edge of the Greek EEZ it is extracting. Her company "ENI" has been making gas for years. It's mining the Italian company, and it's in the Greek EOZ, near the 200 nautical miles. It doesn't want, because, you know, much better than me, that the look isn't straight, but it spreads down to a basin. And this basin can be extended to the Greek EOZ. Egyptians do the same in the Zor look. "Zor" is a look, which is exactly where the Egyptian EEZ touches the Greek one. Therefore, Egyptians and Italians may suck Greek gas. You know, sometimes they make the impression of what we say, regardless of whether it's all wrong. It says 'we will give this for mining'. And I can't understand this: the state is only always wrong, Minister? The Macedonian has always been. In this bad choice of SYRIZA - because it's a bad choice, that's still a state. And I'll prove it to you because it's a bad choice. Caucasus is the choice. Let's go to your suggestion. The biggest crime the previous government has committed is that we were isolated from the pipelines. Mr Minister, show me a country in the world where a gas pipeline passes and this country does not receive transit fees. Tell me even African country. We don't get a single euro from the TAP pipeline. And here I agree with Mr Arseni. The pipelines also have a risk. You know what I mean. Why go and set up hot spot in an area that passes a pipeline to northern Greece. And among those who are on hot spot, says our Minister, Chrysochide, may be jihadists. Your Minister's answer is that. I have the answer, Minister. So how do you set them up alongside the TAP pipeline? And I repeat: why don't we get crossing fees? The New Democracy signed this. This, Minister, was the reason why I said no to Antonis Samaras to go down with New Democracy as a MEP. I told him not when he suggested it to me. I said to him: 'What you're doing is a crime'. To be consistent. There is not a single country in which a pipeline is passed which does not receive transit fees. On the other hand, you have committed this crime: you are letting the Americans and Piat perpetrate and ask for a base in Alexandroupolis for his own reasons. You know very well what I mean: LNG, Copeloss, six nautical miles, offshore company, not taxed, across from Alexandroupolis. The hippo's a terminal. Why is that so? It's to isolate Russia. And what's Russia doing? It passes a pipeline from Turkey, avoids Greece and goes Bulgaria to send its gas. And when Greece's natural gas comes out of the Mediterranean, it will take another ten years. So we are making Russia an enemy for American interests when the Americans are pushing us to give the name "Macedonia" to the Skopje, as we did. It's all contradictory. You know, ladies and gentlemen, energy is not just that I take off the mineral. It is also that I have geostrategic and economic power. A country that has gas or oil and multinational companies are coming to mine, Minister - you know that much better than me - gains geostrategic power. Because these companies would like this country to be prosperous so that they can take her and suck her eyes off. That's a reality. And I say all this because in Article 1, paragraph 1.4, Mr Minister, it says: 'Sympathetics without further criteria'. This wager, which will come later, my Minister, may be a Turk. He has the right. Maybe he's a Macedonian. He has the right. You didn't set a term here because they didn't put him out of here. And because they didn't put it this way, you go on. So he should even be a Macedonian and Turkish? Put an asterisk on it. There's a coincierge. The public - says - waives the right to cancel or terminate the contract. That's what I'd say they're colonial lion agreements. Article 1.5.b enables contractors to conclude contracts with third parties without asking. So there comes a counter-compensator, because it can exist, gives the right and internationally that applies, as long as the country that gives permission to put asterisks, this lessor can go wherever he wants, sign any contract he wants, without asking Greece. It is not happening in any country, Minister, that. See all the notices, because I've looked into this since 2007, and I was the only MP here who was calling for the enormous wealth that Greece has. Of course, it is neither natural gas nor oil. They're the aquatic, the mineral of the future. I'm saying it now and we'll talk about it in a few years. I'm sure of that. Look what hydrogen means. Secondly, in exchange for production. To get the rent, the public must produce two and a half thousand barrels a day. Now, listen to sense. What if the company provides two thousand four hundred on purpose? Why did they tell us about Prenos, Minister... Don't smile, Minister. Prino was told he didn't have oil and every time they make oil there. There's oil. It's two thousand four hundred, I'm telling you. I know what you're gonna answer. "But it is not in the interest of the company, it will make five or ten thousand." You say that, but I say something else. If the hirer doesn't get to two and a half thousand barrels a day, what's going on? You tell me. Article 3, the lessee shall be bound only for each phase separately. There is no such contract in the world in time, Minister. I looked. ‘EXXONMOBIL’. I went to NOBLE ENERGY. I searched their contracts. There's no such thing as that. It is an excessive commitment at a small cost. Greece is committed very small, i.e. getting a little price. It's unbelievable. Indicatively, for the decision, it says, for the third phase of drilling, it has committed sixteen thousand square kilometres at a cost of EUR 12.5 million in six years. We give sixteen thousand square miles to look, and the only cost is 12.5 million for six years. Minister, it commits 60% to a drilling of four thousand metres. Listen, Minister, because I know the depths of Crete, because we all know them, the depth ranges from two and a half to three thousand meters. Listen, Mr. Loverdo, to understand. And we give them four thousand meters of drilling. Three and a half meters from the sea, the drill will go. Geologically, there is no chance anywhere in the world of five hundred meters, except Saudi Arabia, that oil will be found in the region. So we gave them permission for four thousand meters, when the depth there is two and a half, three and a half. So it's not geologically sound. I asked geologists, Professor Zelelidis, Foscolo, and I tell you names. I asked people who know the subject. It's not happening anywhere. It's not possible in Crete in five hundred meters to find. It's a thousand five hundred meters deep, at least. Article 3.11, dismissal of an employed person. If environmental damage is caused - Mr Arsenis should be left here - when he is removed or in a later time, he is not responsible. If they are polluting the environment, my Minister, no one will be responsible. Check it out. I'm telling you in Article 3.11. There's no responsibility for anyone. It's like in Mexico! Here's one right side. To fill the region with oil, if there's oil - I wish to find it - to do the damage and disappear and have no responsibility. That's not happening. Technical Advisory Committee, Article 4, in particular 4.1. The President and its two members shall be appointed by the lessee, by the foreigner, and three members by the lessee. It is a committee that the majority of its members do not have the Greek State. So the committee is not Greek government, it does not control the public. There is an arbitration through the exclusive expert, who in this Convention is again a foreign body. They're all strangers. It should only be Greek. The upper hand always has it - I repeat, my Minister - the stranger. Involvement of American interests "STANDARD & POOR'S" Article 9(2) and not of the Insurance Company Control Agency of the Greek Ministry of Finance. What Norway did. SYRIZA tells us he copied Norway. He's lying or half-truth. No Norway will work that way. We put the 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. We didn't place the Treasury on insurance contributions. I'm telling you, it's in Article 9.2. I'm telling you one by one. Dispute resolution not by Greek courts, but by a private body. So any difference between the oil producer, if he's a crook, we'll go to a private body and not to the Greek court. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] A little more time. I apologise, but these are serious issues, Madam President. Two-three minutes I'm gonna need it. Article 25.5. What does it mean "... priority employment rate by Greece..."? To set a quota on workers. How many will be Greek workers. Will it be one? Two? Three? Four? Five? We have unemployment and you will bring me - I am sure of this - from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Afghanistan workers. Since we're unemployed. So put a quota of Greeks. Equipment and materials say they'll get where it's good. If the company's going to do a drilling, it won't get Greek materials. He'll get where it's good. So where does Greece win? There is no reference to which international convention covers creditors in the event of environmental pollution. I said all this, Minister, to show you a very simple thing, that you are making huge mistakes. Did you and Libya do it? Did you talk to Huffar? Do you know Mr. Huffar, the general? You don't know him. Haftar, then, is the philhellene who is against Turkey, because Turkey has made a base in Libya, wants to cut off the Greek EEZ in the region. Talk to General Haftar, who can sign the EEZ and say that I do accept it. And if Turkey does not run today and says that we are vetoing in Libya. There are ways to cut off Turkey's road. Myals don't exist in Greece, unfortunately. Of course, you don't talk about Herodotus' basin. I have a lot of notes, because since 2007 I have been dealing with oil, Minister, when you and the rest of the New Democracy have fooled me. Here we have a topic, but ELPE, your friend Latsis, 47% of Latsis. Everyone on the ELPE is talking about, you're not saying that Mr. Latsis is behind. Latsis's behind, gentlemen, from the Greek, from this oblivion he's going to do with the skyscrapers. Latsis's in ELPE. Why don't you say it? What Greek company? LAPD. That's it. If Latsis wants it, Latsi will take it. It's for granted. Smile, Minister, but "giggy" piece, little piece of ELPE you ripped it off. And we're the only country that doesn't really have state refineries and we don't really have a oil tanker. This is the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. All about Latsis, Bobola and all those good kids. Closing down, let me say this. Why don't you say what's going to happen, Minister? You're not saying anything about Chocolate and Janna. A great crime that is being committed with history is the Overseas Islands, Minister. I don't know why Plot 1 on the Ionian Sea over the northwest is claiming it by Italy and Albania. Overseas islands. Watch what I'm telling you. Plot 1 and 2. Look at them, sir, Admiral. It's the Overseas Islands. This story is for five billion barrels of oil, according to Professor Zellides. They're in the area. Make the numbers and take the results. I'm not saying it now. I've been talking about it ever since. Why do you trade with Rama and you don't impose EOZ there? Why don't you do an EEZ in the area that concerns - I repeat - Greece? But now you will tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what I ask of New Democracy that Erdogan sneezed and gave him the mosque in Thessaloniki. He asked you there and you did it the next day. What can I ask, Minister, from New Democracy, when the New Democracy exists? Others say abroad and on the inside. Here in Greece I heard my friend Adoni calling them illegal immigrants today. Until yesterday they were refugees and immigrants. Now they're becoming illegal immigrants. You are "as it suits me to spin". Decide: or you will be a New Democracy indeed, but not a New Democracy of Interior and Foreign Affairs. And I'll also tell you something else so you don't fool people. Everyone for you is refugees because those who come, the poachers, burn their papers, the evidence, their identities, they throw them away, and we don't know who they are. And everyone's asking for political asylum. So the plan you are going to do with the invasion that is taking place cannot be solved by Greece with your own government. One example: Bulgaria's Minister of National Defence a few months ago said 'whoever passes through Bulgaria will be shot'. That's what he said, Minister. He dares to say that? You and I went to the army. We say, "Alt! Who's there? Halt! Who's there? Firearms.’ Admiral, isn't that what we say? "Alt! Who's there? Halt! Who's there? I'm shooting at our border. Yes or no? That's what the military rule says, gentlemen. The Bulgarian Minister of National Defence said so. Is there a man here to tell you from New Democracy that you are a patriotic party as you claim? But there is the New Republic of patriots inside and outside. That's the truth. We say: Border security is not going to go into life for slavery, closure of NGOs, uninhabited islands, so they won't have a good time. The Greek is being abused, and the strangers, the ones coming, the intruders, will have a good time? It's over with the Greek solution. As for the oil, Minister, I will say it again. This is the story because SYRIZA made it and not for any other reason. I'm sure if you did it, it would be better. But you ratify it today because you have the continuity of the state, as in the Macedonian. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I invite the secretary of Mera25, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when the history of the future recordes the history of 2019, neither will you nor President Trump, Mr McCrone, Mrs Merkel, mention in 2019 to the year when the uprising of the new generation worldwide - from Britain to Portugal, from Brazil, Canada, India - awakened mankind against climate disaster. This will be recalled in 2019. The question is whether our country - in the context of this report - will join those who took the part of history or those who objected to it. Will we join the enemies of the future or those who helped the birth of the 21st century, technologies, renewable energy? Are we going to create backing within an alliance against the dystopia that is being born today and in favour of a new technological revolution, or are we going to remain trapped in the tentacles of multinationals, which are all of their interest to sacrifice the future of the new generation that is currently escalating to depreciate their own investments in energy production and distribution technologies, which are also uneconomical and anti-environmental? The arguments in favour of ratification are essentially three: first, budgetary benefits, debt repayment, budgetary space, second, energy adequacy, third, job creation. All three arguments are completely perforated. In a contract study - and other colleagues have referred to this - you will see that the sums are negligible. At best, 15m euros will be provided in front of another 10m euros a year. It's not worth talking. Profit tax? On the profits of what, Minister? No agreement is concluded, contract with EXXON, or TOTAL, or REPSOL. We conclude an agreement with EXXON HELLAS, with TOTAL HELLAS, with REPSOL HELLAS. Do you know what that means? With subsidiaries, which are very well acquainted with the art of Transfer Pricing. It's very simple: they won't gain, Minister. Their platform will be invoiced as much as possible so as not to make profits or to show those who choose to show up, on which they will pay 20%, as much as the tax. In other words, we give these maritime areas to companies that will choose on their own how much they will pay the Greek public - you know what that means - while what we receive? What is it we commit ourselves to? That when there is an accident - and there will always be, because there are major accidents in time - the cleaning of an oil spill, for example, will be a burden on our government, our state, our public debt, our private debt. At the same time, in order to protect - supposedly - the platforms, there is pressure - you already see them from the French Government - for frigates. Costs - economic costs, I am not talking about the environmental now - are unthinkable to the expected economic benefit. Therefore, the idea that the Greek public and Greek citizens have to benefit from these sanctions is rejected without praise. As far as energy adequacy is concerned, are we serious? Does it matter to the Greek State, to the Greek private sector, whether we buy from EXXON oil which was taken from the Greek seas or Indonesia, when we have given it to them? They will have energy adequacy, not the Greek public or the Greek private sector. In terms of jobs, of course, few jobs will be created, compared to those created in smart renewable energy networks. The jobs that will be created in local communities to know - look at the local communities of northern Scotland, look at the local societies of Indonesia, Nigeria, where deposits have been found - that they create a division in these local societies between those working on the platforms and the others not working on the platforms. Local authorities are caught in the logic of accumulation of large multinationals. Marriage and underdevelopment are all these local communities have to expect. Overall, we are a country that has lost two industrial revolutions. We don't deserve to lose the next one. The over-qualification we need to become part of the third, fourth industrial revolution, the green industrial revolution, should be based on 100% renewable energy sources. That is where good jobs are created, the long-term investment is being created, the start ups, the start ups of young people's start-ups are being mobilised. To achieve this over-indulgence, there must be a rehab from the ghost of underdevelopment, which will continue to be misled as long as we are in the tentacles of an energy model that has its roots in the 19th century. I talked about 2019 and how the history of the future will mention it. It is not only the uprising of youth against climate disaster. It will also be mentioned with other statistics. It is a flag year in 2019. It will be marked and mentioned as the year when Britain first produces more energy from renewable energy sources than from fossil fuels. It is the year that Mrs May's conservative government first and then Mr Johnson's full rehab of new forms of mineral wealth, fossil fuels. This is the year - and this is of enormous importance, and we must say it again, and why the figure is impressive - the last 12 months - I speak with reference in August - from August 2018 to August 2019, China has produced from new sources of renewable energy total kilowatts more than total electricity production in France and Germany. And we're talking about development model through platforms and mining and drilling! Ladies and gentlemen, because today we do not have the right to speak partyly, we do not have the right to speak in the context of tiny micro-party disputes, I call on everyone and everyone to judge our historic duty. We are asking as Mera25 or as parliamentarians if you want from all of you, even from those who disagree with our position, by roll-call vote, so that the historian of the future knows what the position of each and every one of us was. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe you have ecological sensitivities. None of us have a monopoly on sensitivity. I believe it. I believe the Prime Minister wants to feel that he is leading a green government. But we'll be sitting here. There is no question of a mixture of energy policy. At the moment we must have a direct target of 100% renewable energy. You have given us the rest of the parties at Mera25, a monopoly we do not want to have, a monopoly in this Parliament, which we despise, the monopoly in being the only party we are saying that hydrocarbons must remain in the pits of the earth, and we do not defile the contracts in themselves or the ownership of the ELPEs, despite the fact that we will fight with nails and teeth not be privatised. We have a government of the New Democracy and the Change Movement that today continues on the road that - as you quite rightly said, Minister - SYRIZA set up with the initial signature. SYRIZA, as far as I can tell, I think he is voting 'at present' despite the fact that he has not yet dried the ink of your signatures on the contracts and you are hiding behind the privatisation of the ELPEs that you have started. Colleagues of the JRC, we welcome the fact that you are voting 'no' with us, but we want to tell you this: In addition to our common opposition to privatisation, do you think that if you mining them, if the climate disaster brought it into state-owned enterprises, it would all be fine, angelically counterfeit? We are vertically against all mining, whether private or public. Fortunately, there are strong voices that strengthen the voice of Mera25, of Diem25. It is all this youth who especially on Fridays in Sweden, Germany, Switzerland, Britain, Australia, New Zealand are strikers. Young children, twelve, fifteen, twenty years old, demand that we not deprive them of their future. There are other voices, older, scientists, activists, intellectuals. A voice like that asked me to send you a message, which I am reading to you. It is written by Naomi Klein and the message is: "Greece is at the forefront of accelerating climate collapse. Your farmers' - our farmers - are'suffering and suffering from increased drought, while as a people, you have lost people from uncontrolled forest fires. As an island people, you face the reality that more and more people beyond your borders are forced to leave the homelands they love, because their land has become unsustainable because of drought or conflict, which are strengthened by increasing awkwardness. In this context of rapidly increasing damage, it even goes beyond the definition of madness to put literally fuel into the universal fire, by ratifying agreements with oil companies to extract other fossil fuels from your beautiful seas and thus threatening even more sensitive ecosystems both locally and globally. "I stand," says Naomi Klein, "beside Mera25 as the only party that dynamically opposes these catastrophic sanctions. I call on all lawmakers who listen to their good conscience to listen to scientists, to listen to the children who around the world strike to rescue their future and collide with Mera25, so that we can draw a line that puts an end to mining. While our house is burning, we have a minimum window of opportunity to erase the flames. Naomi Klein’. In this words of Naomi, I call on each of you and each of you to do what we have to do, to vote against, pointing out to the new generation that the Greek Parliament can support their future, that it can escape from the tentacles of the multinationals, who are determined to sacrifice the future of the new generation on the altar of depreciating investments that they have done, no matter what it means in accelerating climate change and despite the fact that only budgetary costs will these mining have in the long term and cost to local communities and economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, too. Now, ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary representatives have the floor, as they have requested. Ms. Marilissa Xenogiankopoulou will be the first one in Step for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, we heard you plead surprised at the position of the SYRIZA Officer. We have also heard that you are extremely ironic about Census. What we did not hear, however, Minister, and what we expected today from a responsible government, is to express a clear position, your own, not a symbol of the press: "Wait and you will see. Wait and we will disprove you." Take a seat. You're a government officer. So the position that would give you the right to apply this criticism to our criticism would be if you were to come out today very well and if you said that you, as the government responsible, will negotiate - as you have the opportunity and I will be placed on it - so that the public can guarantee its position with regard to the ELPEs, much more so that the majority of the public in the holding company, in terms of mining, can be guaranteed. That's what we expected from you. But, of course, it's no accidental halves and it's no accident that you're not taking a position. And, of course, because it is well known that the time has come for the Prime Minister and for the government as a whole, as is the past of your own party - whenever you have governed - in a neoliberal direction, it is only natural that we half of us do not regard it as a guarantee that you will do so in terms of guaranteeing the public, but on the contrary. Second one. You proceeded to a series of fragmentary reports and with selective memory as regards the SYRIZA government. So remind us of the facts. When the government of SYRIZA took over in 2015, it found the ELPEs with a debt that reached 368,000,000 and with an administration that it imposed on the public, essentially the private shareholder. What happened next? The government effectively imposed the administration in the ELPEs. We saw ELPE gaining profitability, net profits of 40,000,000. We saw the ELPEs as a group, right now, being in the hundred most powerful global energy groups. And much more, you forgot - and there was a fragmentation - that in terms of negotiation, in order to have a strategic investor and the future of the group, the SYRIZA government with the institutional agreement reached the sale of private and proportional shares, so that the balance between public and private as regards equity and management is not affected. For all this, there was no mention. You said - and this is where we want to make it clear - that you are concerned with our position. And we wonder why you're doing what you don't understand. Because the Government's attitude to the four contested conventions, which the House is now called upon to take a stand and ratify, was a attitude dictated by three interrelated directions: The first direction was, of course, geopolitical developments in our region in the Eastern Mediterranean and, of course, our country's geopolitics and our national interests. The second interconnector was the environmental forecasts, regulations and guarantees, which did not exist before 2014. After 2015 with the government of SYRIZA, our rapporteur, Mr Zachariadis, made a detailed mention of one by one, as well as the offshore directive and regional observers and as regards the exclusion of the NATURA areas, with regard to the express exclusion of all landminings and all other specific regulations which specifically guarantee this environmental dimension. The third aspect - which is completely interrelated to each other - is the safeguarding of the public interest. The public interest has of course to do with the presence of the public - and this has to do with control and income and, of course, because it is energy national resources - but it is also about public control. Since the public has the majority in this holding company with regard to these mining operations, it will also have the guarantee and control for all dimensions, namely respect for the environment, local issues, the social dimension, all the issues relating to it. It is for you to express irony and surprise. You have not taken a clear position. You mentioned the report of the institutions in June 2019, and that is where you read one of your own, because that is not the case. I mentioned earlier the negotiation we had made to have a proportional sale of public and private shares. The reality is that we are out of the question at the moment, and the reality is that as a government responsible - and we would at least do that if we continued to be government, as our policy had shown in recent years, as I said - we would of course negotiate to secure the status of the public. So it is not possible at the time when the National Delegation is called upon to ratify these four conventions, which are an integral part of the public presence in ELPE and Holding, and it is a substantial change in the application of these conventions, that you come here with Swiss reports and no commitment. Regarding the presence of Prime Minister in New York and climate change, clearly saying that it is a crucial issue for the Prime Minister to have a climate change strategy, it is good for you to expect this to be reflected in all your political initiatives, not to be words of communication, which are made in international fora to raise shares and create impressions. So he talked about the famous frustration. I ask you, Minister: is there a concrete plan? You should present it. Is there a plan for all the consequences, and much more is the question, when you have given the right in the way you speak and deceive PPC every day, to think that it is more connected to PPC than to environmental protection and climate change? I think you can't convince us on this matter. You know very well that the SYRIZA government - our rapporteur has already mentioned - had tabled a draft, a national energy and climate plan, which had clear commitments and a roadmap. We're waiting to hear. We haven't seen anything on your part. What is your national energy and climate plan? SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras has taken a clear view that by 2030 natural gas should be estimated and be a more climate-friendly transition fuel, setting as a central target a neutral climate Greece in a neutral climate Europe. It can only concern us through our central positioning and planning and changing our development model, the great climate crisis and this new generation that has been on the streets all over the globe, which is coming and demonstrating and which does not just speak in terms of environment and climate change, but is clearly talking about changing the system, because if we do not change our productive base, if we do not change the way we go about development, then we know that all these are just impressions, with whatever good intentions you may have personally or anyone else. I'm coming to the fourth theme. I ask: in a few days' time, the draft law you bring to Parliament, which does not have any of these concerns and does not reflect all these predictions and statements made by Mr Mitsotakis. We barely have a withdrawal of initial commitments made by the SYRIZA Government in accordance with the Paris Agreement, and we therefore see that a new development model is not submitted and, more importantly, that it should be the occasion for a roller on social and labour rights. So, Minister, instead of making smuggling and ironing out opposition, we would expect you to present a thorough, long-term strategy on climate change and a new development model for the country, compatible with the new challenges and obligations and needs of climate change, social cohesion and social solidarity, because for us all these goals are interlinked. I would say, therefore, and this is the crucial point, ladies and gentlemen, that today this great challenge we have to face as humanity, as political and social forces, is undoubtedly to respond to this call of the age of needs, and this great mobilisation of youth, which is happening everywhere, in terms of real, politicians, a new development model and with practical, real placement and commitment and specific policies. In conclusion, therefore, our position is clear when it comes to ratifying these four conventions. We believe, first of all, that there is a substantial change in their implementation in relation to the government's change of attitude and not to confirm the commitment to the public character of ELPE and Holding, as well as we believe that our policy needs to be further developed, taking into account and responding to the great challenge that we, at least, SYRIZA, have, as a progressive force, a left-wing force with a commitment to the Greek people, to the youth that it demonstrates, we are determined to respond, with our programme, to our positions and to our presence in all social movements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u47	And we, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty members and five escorts from the civil non-profit company "ANIA". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukkoro. You have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is today the Civic Opposition as a Janus. It has signed the conventions which have not changed in one word and has refused to vote on the convention. Of course, we have not been convinced by the SYRIZA officials that something has been changed, something has changed since the signing of the conventions, so as to justify the current attitude of the Civilian Opposition Party. Indeed, it is unprecedented, as the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, pointed out emphatically, to see such behaviour without any apology, without any justification, without any evidence of such a change of position. But how to substantiate a post consisting of cancelling the signature of SYRIZA. Others sign up as a government, but he supports as a opposition, he did so in the past, but he said as an opposition, as an anti-immemorandum party he came to the government, he signed Memorandums. Of course, the Greek people understand very well and the seriousness and sincerity with which the political forces are approaching such issues, such as hydrocarbons mining, which is not a simple technical process, but are of numerous importance and economic and geostrategic and geopolitical importance. If, on such serious issues, CSR is changing its position in this way, we realise that we cannot wait for a serious forceful opposition that the country so much needs at this time. The rapporteurs have changed, the position has changed, and of course it shows that SYRIZA does not honour his signatures. Where is the former Deputy Minister for the Environment, who has so much denounced the committee, to defend his positions in today's debate in plenary? Do colleagues from the Officerate-General recognise that the ratification of these conventions, in fact, strengthens the position of the country and converts it, not automatically but through a serious, studied and planned process, apart from an energy hub and an energy producer, thereby strengthening its position in an area that - as we have already said - is not the most quiet neighborhood in the world? As a pretext for this cubism, for this new cubism, SYRIZA invokes the possible privatisation of the ELPEs, without this justification being based on any real elements, without knowing what will be the direction and, above all, having the weight of signing for the further privatisation of the ELPEs through the third and inappropriate memorandum brought by the SYRIZA Government. In other words, SYRIZA currently uses an excuse that he bears only the burden of responsibility. If that is not political hypocrisy, then what is it, ladies and gentlemen? The privatization of the ELPE remains to be seen. And, if I understand correctly, Mr Hatzidakis has promised you surprises, which may be explained in relation to the positions you have put forward today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u49	Like PPC's surprise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u50	As the surprise of NOVARTIS, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u52	The government and all of us are very concerned about environmental concerns. It's about hydrocarbons extracts. Every human activity leaves an environmental footprint. To have a zero environmental footprint, an absolute economic and social immobility is needed. That can't be. Of course, what international practices anticipate will also apply to these conventions. Of course, no one can play either the Aegean or the Mediterranean, and we certainly do not grant the right to environmental sensitivity to anyone entirely. All measures must be taken during the mining phase in order to protect the environment. There are international practices which are bad and positive. There are practices of African countries, Latin American countries, which have indeed had a heavy mining footprint, but I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the largest mining in Europe takes place in the most sensitive environmental countries and these are the Scandinavian countries. One doesn't undo the other. Let us copy best practices. And for all the other side effects of mining, of course, there is global experience, there is the curse of resources. Otherwise, oil extraction took place in Nigeria, otherwise it worked in Norway. The fact that we are starting late has some negative effects on the economy, but it can have some positive effects on practice. We are more experienced, we are wiser today, we can undoubtedly copy positive practices. And, of course, the environmental sensitivity of SYRIZA, of today's officer and of yesterday's government, which lists us decisions, statements, but also bills, is only theoretical - let me - in my view. It does not have any practical effect. I am referring to some of the environmental drafts brought by your government. In 2016 you passed the recycling bill. How much has the recovery of recycled materials increased? How did it apply? How did this bill of government work? What are the results of this bill? To make an announcement, to make a statement or to vote for a law, without taking care of its operation, does not say anything about the environment, but also about any political manifestation. The result is that it counts. For three years you have passed the bill on maritime spatial planning. How did its implementation proceed? What exactly has happened today? Absolutely nothing! You passed the bill on the suspension of the forest maps. It breaks down part of the Council of State. To vote for a law in a country of pluralism is not such a difficult thing. To apply the law and produce results, however, is a responsibility to be guaranteed by the state that votes for the law. So I also disagree with the view that hydrocarbons mining should be carried out at the heart of the crisis in a country that has always been laid down. An issue of such importance would not have been dealt with either by the necessary programming or by the necessary cooling-up, which is appropriate, which we owe to such issues, which touch on our national issues and strengthen the geopolitical position of the country. These things must be done with design, in calm periods, so that they are not an emergency product, but a design product. In any case, any gains from the extraction of hydrocarbons would be well used not for our current needs nor even for our debts. It would be advisable to have a design of intergenerational solidarity, a fund of next generations. There are such practices in many European countries, because in fact the environment and natural resources are being borrowed from the next generations. The price, profit and benefit, primarily, must be addressed to the next generations. For the energy mix, of course, the Minister spoke to you in detail, but the government's intention is now evident, not only from the Prime Minister's commitments to international fora, but also from investment in RES, to Renewable Energy, which are constantly growing and becoming more and more involved in the energy climate. Along with the country's defoliation plan, I understand that there is room for us to exploit this strategic advantage of the existence of oil and gas deposits in our country. In other words, there is no black or white on these issues. There are mixtures, there are policies that need to be worked out seriously, implemented and produced results. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not aspiring, then, to become Nigeria. We are ambitious to copy the best practices of European countries in particular, and why not Norway, but other northern countries, which are indeed a successful model of exploitation of natural resources, of mineral wealth, with the least possible consequences on the environment, because I have explained and know it in this Chamber that every human activity leaves a footprint which we are responsible for, but not only from mining, but from the whole range of human life and human activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I will now call on the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Prepare Mr. Cappatos, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, good month! Mr President, we are discussing a very serious issue relating to the country and its development, which, unfortunately, is not about 2020-2021, and this is backwards and this is under the responsibility of the previous government which signed the conventions only four days before the elections were held, obviously to pass on the matter to the next one, because for their own internal reasons, they did not want to end with this serious obligation that they had as a government. Now, how can the Minister of the previous government sign ten days before the elections these conventions, which are now coming to Parliament in order to ratify, and today's Civic Opposition, then, to vote 'the present'? This is not a matter of teachers, but of rectoral principles of hypocrisy, I have nothing else to say. It's really very problematic and it's just another asshole. This will be underlined. I have already seen on various sites that it is noted. It is unbelievable that you have signed four agreements three months ago and when they come to the House in order to be ratified, you say "residents" and when you are asked to explain "residents", you cannot explain it, the sequence of arguments does not lead to where you finally ended up and the one who hears you know that you have been looking for something to collect words to describe arguments and something to say. I would also like to point out the change made by the rapporteur for Officerial Response. By another colleague who had a role in the Ministry's previous leadership, we went to another colleague to say today's'residents'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u55	It's abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u56	It's your business. He was the one in the committee, and today you said to us here 'they'. It's not coming out. It really doesn't come out politically. But I move on to the most serious issues. 2020 is the crucial year, not just for your governance, of course for you, but for the country, for the Greeks, for the Greeks, because, with the burden of the primary surpluses so that the next day can also touch the citizens, not just the public finances, I must, as I say repeatedly - I have said in your programming statements - growth rates are not even shocking, but they are shocking for us to be able to actually walk in the next day. This does not seem to be the case with what Mr Stournaras has to say, which determines it close to 3%, but also with all the services in the country, statistics related to the figures for 2020. We will not make that leap that could help the country, giving citizens the feeling that something better will be done for families, for them, for the national economy. I would like to point out that you have been late, even though you have been in dialogue for several weeks, bringing the development draft law to plenary. We now say 'yes' to the conventions, of course. In addition, as a PASOK and a Change Movement, it is a very privileged field, because the country's energy and policy in the field of research and hydrocarbons bears the seal of the governments of PASOK, that of 1999 and Evangelos Venizelos, and of course the PASOK governments as the government of George Papandreou the first and our participation in the Government of Samara - Venizelos from 2010 to 2014. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, the basic principles of the strategy followed by the New Democracy were laid down. I want to call this Chamber in my memory, Yannis Maniotis. At the time that we were not ministers, but we were "coffeemen" about, in 2011, there is a meeting in the office of the then Prime Minister, Mr. Papandreou, here in Parliament, on the subject of hydrocarbons and with the rapporteur, the Deputy Minister at the time, Mr. Manatis. It was impressive to me that I was the first to discuss at a small government meeting such a development issue and to hear the prospects that the country has in this area, which I have been able to hear for the first time - very important. It proved from the course of things that they were really very important. We voted, then, as a government of Papandreou L.4001/2011 and then under the government of Samaras - Venizelos, v.4162/2013. My colleagues have made special references to these issues. I am concentrating the thoughts of my four colleagues who have spoken to the Standing Commission and here. Three principles: First principle, the common energy doctrine of Greece and Cyprus. Secondly, sustainable development, but with the use of our mineral resources and with respect, most of all, to all environmental standards, for the benefit of society and the future generations. Because the SYRIZA attitude stumbles me, I would like to say that the articles that Mr Hatzidakis invoked as environmental protection articles you have adopted, you have provided for them in this Convention and you have signed them. So we need to combine these two principles and one next. On the second principle, however, for the sustainable development of our mineral resources, with respect for environmental standards and for the benefit of society and future generations, I would point out that from the profits that the Hellenic Republic will have from this economic activity, as provided for in the law that we voted in 2013, 70-75% will go to strengthening the pension system for young people and future generations, and the rest will go to the regions and local communities. This is development planning with social content. There is also a third principle very important, climate change as an independent environmental and top theme. I have the honour from 2006 in this Chamber, when I was responsible for the environment and public works of my party, to be nominated here by the Minister of State, Mr Sufflia, to be genuinely inclined - having regard to the then study of the United Kingdom Ministerial Council, the Stern study, which made predictions for the end of the 21st century on the basis of global warming, and not to remember, ladies and gentlemen, other parties in that House, to take the floor with masturbation and highlight this issue. I am therefore aware of this third principle in good time, and I can understand why all parties take it as a principle of co-determination of any development measure, independent of the general issues of environmental protection. As our own policy is based on these three principles, we are happy to see today that it is going on and in that sense we are voting 'yes' on the four conventions. There is an independent topic here, what will happen with ELPE, the Hellenic Petroleum. SYRIZA included the sale of shares of EUR 500 million in his memorandum, in the inappropriate memorandum signed in the summer of 2015 that the country, if it was not voted on by parliament, would go to the rocks and voted with the assistance of the then opposition. Without us, nothing would have happened. When Mr Stathakis came here, without being opposition to him, I said to him: "You have taken this obligation on your own initiative. What are you gonna do? How do you think about it? Have we exploited the experience as a National Representation from other privatisations of profitable public corporations that we have done?". I invoke, to be serious and precise, the PPP. We did it. I was saying we had some predictions privatizing the OPAP. This was in 2013. Was your SYRIZA governments assessed if this privatisation was ultimately beneficial, controlling the Greek State's revenue numbers from that situation before privatisation and later? This assessment has never been carried out by anyone and by any relevant authority. We don't know how he's gone. Someone who collects numbers can tell us. However, political evaluation has not been carried out. I was telling Mr Stathakis: aren't you telling us how you think about the ELPEs? Because with 2018 figures, this was mentioned by my colleagues in the Change Movement, the Greek State had 75 million revenues from ELPE's successful operation. For I did not hesitate to highlight the successful administration with Mr Chochossoros and the representative of the private company Mr Siamisi. That was a very good combination. They did very well, and the public had his income. With what weighing, what line are you going to move on? That's what I'm asking. You have a past that was good at this point, and I repeat that I have often referred to two people in Parliament, Mr Tsotsouros and to a government minister who was once in charge of the TSE, Mr Pittsorla. They were doing good. How do you think about this development? We want to know. Mr. Stathakis deserved to comment. But you have to prove that you have a different culture and when you feel able to tell us exactly how you think about it. I would like to mention one last point, Madam President, which is not related to this subject, but as a Parliamentary representative, I have the right to make a broader reference. We are concerned about the content of the talks between the Prime Minister and President Erdogan. We have in mind - we will not forget - that the last meeting of the previous Prime Minister with President Erdogan was held on a agenda that we still do not know. We have consistently participated in the National Foreign Policy Council, which Mr Katrugalos confessed to operates at a sufficiently positive rate, and there, asking what the two leaders said, we have only received the information in the report, which we already knew from the newspapers and the media. We ask the government, when it decides, but not too late, in the coming weeks, to convene the National Foreign Policy Council or the competent Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence - choose and take - in order to be accurately informed about the content of the talks. It's not possible that everything stays hidden. We know that the leaders met, obviously something they would say, would not spend their time exchanging compliments. We want to know what the content of these talks is and whether there has been some development in any of the issues in our relations with Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Cappatos has the floor and Mr. Friends will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, research into hydrocarbons, in particular with regard to gas finding, is one of the most critical factors that will affect the energy mix of the country over at least thirty years. This finding, given that natural gas is the bridge fuel which will allow for a gradual transition to alternative, environmentally friendly forms of energy, gives our debate today. During today's intervention as a member of a prefecture of Kefalonia - Ithaca, which is directly affected, I shall refer to three key factors: the first concerns the environmental dimension, the second concerns the economic and security dimension in the wider region and, finally, the examples of which have been successfully carried out. With regard to the crucial aspect of environmental protection, we are in a position to highlight three institutional guarantees provided by the draft law. At first level, environmental impact studies shall be identified where possible risks are recorded and the protection measures specified. Monitoring mechanisms, emergency plans, as well as the framework for cooperation between investors with state and European control services shall be analysed. At second level, in addition to the strategic environmental impact study prepared, additional environmental protection conditions resulting from the relevant public consultation have already been incorporated into it. At third level, the environmental conditions set by the European Union are the strictest internationally, providing us with an institutional framework of modern, safe and already tested. The directives on the prevention of industrial accidents and the safety of offshore oil and gas operations, with which Greek law has been harmonized, guarantee that Greece has already incorporated an institutional tradition of decades to ensure the safe management of a large industrial programme. There is a critical parameter that is particularly relevant to the Kefalonias and Ithaca Prefecture. Seismic activity is part of our lives. As Eritreans, Kefalonites and Thai, we have accepted that earthquakes are something common for our country. Environmental impact studies provide for a specific monitoring mechanism for seismic activity during the research period, and in this field our country must make use of its human resources and scientific institutions. In any case, it is worth pointing out that investment entities are obliged to comply fully with all national and Union environmental legislation, not only the one that is now in force, but also any future legislation. With regard to the dimension of economic and security, the ratification of the contracts underlines the vote of confidence in large companies that will invest previously in Greek data in the field of research. At the same time as this draft law we lay the foundations for our country's energy security and geostrategic position to be strengthened, making Greece a strong country. With regard to the experiences of developments in the European and Greek areas, there is a positive precedent, particularly in the field of environmental protection and management. In the area of Thassos and Kavala, after forty years of mining, with outdated technologies, there is no indication of the burden of the marine ecosystem and, on the other hand, the tourist industry in the region coexists harmoniously and develops along with mining activity. In view of the fact that the research we are voting on today is going to be carried out by integrating recent technological developments, this is a strong safeguard. However, we cannot rest on technological progress. I believe that a strong public mechanism for continuous observation and control of mining activities is essential, as is also provided for in civil society and environmental protection organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is being called upon to adapt to a framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, to replace the gap in national production with the closure of energy units in our country, to ensure that it is not entirely dependent on the introduction of energy that will not cost the budget and all the citizens. The draft law we are voting on today provides all those guarantees of institutional, technical, technological and scientific importance to ensure a healthy, sustainable and safe mining process. The research we are doing today will allow us to explore the possibilities and possibilities of extracting hydrocarbons. These are research activities that make our place, the Ionian Islands Region and the country a powerful geopolitical factor as a crucial hub for Europe's energy security. This draft is a follow-up to the contract that the previous government had concluded. It is therefore reasonable to expect the positive attitude of Officer Opposition in today's debate and vote to honour its recent signing of the agreements, which we are currently dominating. This will, moreover, be the strongest proof that the Greek state has institutional consistency and diplomatic continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u59	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nikos Friend of SYRIZA has the floor and the parliamentary representative of Mera 25 Mr. Gregoriadis will be followed. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on climate change with the urgency it takes due to the real circumstances and also under pressure of young protests around the world reminds me of at least one proportion of how the debt debate in our country opened up completely unexpectedly in 2010. Then all suddenly fell from the clouds. And citizens rightly wondered: “How did we get here? Why didn't politicians, academics and acquaintances talk earlier?" Are we going to let younger generations wonder the same thing about climate change tomorrow? How did the sea level get here? How did the greenhouse effect get here to melt ices and whole ecosystems to collapse? We're going to let them blame us for having been indifferent, ignorant and ultimately untrue, or are we going to take action now? But if we take measures, will they have a substantial effect, or will we just say nice words with environmental ornaments, to be reproduced in the media, at the same time as our vote on more fossil fuels and more greenhouse gases? Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that scares us, and I want us to think about it and consider where we are and where we are going. Energy-generating needs are growing. In 1965 all over the world the energy consumed did not exceed 45,000 TWh. A twenty years later, in 1985, it was 75,000 TWh, that is, it had increased by 70%. In 2015 it was 110,000 TWh. And they're growing. And now where are we? Did we already get to the roof, and can we relax? Answer: We are urging both to increase the population and to increase per capita energy consumption and thus to a rapid increase in the need for energy. So here we are clean. Because we hide behind beautiful words such as 'energy saving', 'clean energy'. As long as we continue to serve as humanity and build a system linking the improvement of living standards, growth and increase profits by increasing energy output, then it will be impossible to reverse global warming. This is because the share of alternative energy sources in global energy production remains low and is not for technical reasons predicted to be worthwhile, so that it can reverse climate disaster. Today, there is no more than 15% worldwide and it is planned not to exceed 20% in the visible future. Clearly, emissions targets to prevent climate change are not achieved. No greenhouse gas reductions shall be recorded annually. An increase is recorded, leading to a rise in temperature by two degrees by 2050 and resulting in disasters in the society's environment. The negative effects are known. Let's not expand. And they will become even more unfavourable with the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Protocol after the well-known destructive decision of Trump. So what do we need today? First and foremost, a change in the growth model to reduce energy needs. Of course, that's just not simple. It is, on the contrary, a political choice of great gravity and consequences, which the economic system in itself will never apply without it being forced to do. That is why they are of enormous importance and the demonstrations of young people that we watched last week throughout the world are a source of optimism. These are demonstrations that will intensify and it is our duty to support them. Secondly, an increase in the rules and conditions of the alternative and renewable energy ratio in the energy mix. This is two steps long and difficult. Only a great alliance of prosperous and large countries can enter the front and pull behind it slowly - slowly the whole planet. After all, the prosperous countries are producing most of the greenhouse gases, but they also have the economic potential. They benefited from the previous period and it is a duty to get ahead today. In this process Greece must play a positive role, which is not compatible with the objectives of the mining industry. Furthermore, to say things by their name, the mining industry is politically autonomous and serves the interests of the United States and the great energy lobby, not the interests of our country. But even if there were geopolitical interests for Greece I wonder where. In the Ionian? I ask: are we really putting these geopolitical interests over the environment? Next to Olympia and Catalo? Next to the Messology Lake? Next to the seismic Patronian Gulf, the mountainous tumor of Epirus? In Crete, where mining is not just in an open sea, as they say, but is next to the Middle East fire and unfortunately incorporate the American geopolitical plans on Crete on the Middle East? Or are we forgetting the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico? And there was an open sea. In this context, I have in time expressed my opposition to mining contracts, the ratification of which is being debated today. In April 2018, I signed with the then MP of SYRIZA George Diaras and two leading scientists, Joseph Singal and Stath Lukas, a text in which I called upon our government not to insist on a productive development plan that endangers the environment and wealth of entire regions, at the same time unnecessarily waste natural resources. Instead, our government with the ecological left had to present a completely different model leading to a fair distribution of natural wealth to another model of civil life. I am presenting this article today in the Minutes together with the relevant communication in the Green Peace and WWF's letter to Members on the issue we are discussing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In this letter from the two environmental organisations, serious environmental security deficits are clearly highlighted, but they also disguise all the philosophy that we will find a lot of money on the seabed. In the near future, after two or three decades, if we are inactive, today's young and tomorrow's citizens will turn back and cry out 'what have you done'? Who do we want to be with then? With those who acted selfishly, who indulged at all or those against the current, were they suffering for another radically different energy policy? I feel, we feel, we have to feel that we have to be with the second, with the millions of citizens going through the streets of the world's cities. Give battle to the environment and humanity and win it. Be with the children, be with Greta Tunberg, which we must invite our Parliament to speak to us and listen to, as well as every Friday, when the children's demonstrations are made in the Constitution, we must go down and listen to them, with them. This is the real Teenagers House there, in the Constitution, with demonstrations rather than bureaucratic internal space procedures. We should also be prepared to respond to all the challenges that exist, such as, for example, in the prosecution, in the treatment against the Mayor of Keratini by the oil company 'OILONE', which is a company that, as has been denounced, smells the environment and makes the region beside Piraeus. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a criticism that SYRIZA is changing its position. It is a positive shift, which, in my opinion, is a precursor to a new political and social reality. But is that enough? Is it enough from 'yes' to be hasty and incomprehensible on the eve of the elections to go to a 'office' today? In my opinion, it is not enough. I have heard the question of the ELPEs as an alibi. It's a real problem the sellout that's getting ready for the ELPEs, but it's the elsson. The major is climate change, and that was before the elections. It is a mistake not to make self-criticism in front of Greek society and Greek youth. This is the power of the Left: to be able to correct its mistakes, to gain citizens' consciences in a line of society's change, which means in a line of social and environmentally balanced development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u61	So do we. Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, will be followed by Mr. Konstantopoulos of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard very good things today from the government. The representative's parliamentary representative told us, about, that we should die, so that we do not leave any prints on the ecological or ecological, as you prefer, take it, that the only way we do not pollute is to shut down. The truth, of course, is not exactly like that and I'm sorry to say it. The argument was that any human activity leaves its ecological footprint. I know a series of activities that don't leave any prints: the theater, the dance, the song. There are certain specific activities that leave prints and there are huge differences among them. For example, it certainly does not do the same damage to the environment as I drive with the hydrocarbons drilling that you intend to do in our homeland. While - and here is the interesting and acidic - the strange scooter helps me exactly as much as the hydrocarbon extraction of our national economy, that is, as in detail analyzed and proved undeniably by our Chief, absolutely not at all. For his part, Mr Hatzidakis is, as we all know, an extremely noble man and I have no doubt that he has ecological concerns and proves his kindness with the patience he is listening to all of us here saying his short and long. However, I feel, Minister, that today you are in a somewhat bad position, because you are, in a way, forced to try to justify unjustified grounds. Your arguments I held were mainly two. It was that "we, too, have to make minings of this kind", the murderous for us and our homeland, in our opinion, "because that is what happens in our neighborhood". I want to tell you this isn't happening in our neighborhood. It only happens to our underdeveloped neighbours, such as the Turks, such as the occupied Cyprus, such as the free Cyprus. In other words, it happens in the small and poor countries in our neighbourhood, in the countries that have deadlocks in our neighbourhood. It does not happen in Italy, it does not happen in Spain, it does not happen in Portugal. All these countries have a lasting and large moratorium. Your second argument was that at least all international standards will be respected. You said that, too, your parliamentary representative said so. It is obvious, Mr Hatzidakis, that we will not respect international standards for the simple reason that we have not yet ratified the agreement called the Offshore Protocol, Barcelona, we have not ratified the London Protocol to prevent sea pollution from being discharged from residues and other materials, and a number of other protocols have not been ratified. If these protocols are not ratified first, we reasonably maintain our lively doubt as to whether mining will be carried out according to international standards. I would also like to say to Mr Velopoulos that, in my opinion, this is a wonderful new position, namely that the gas, which is part of the hydrogen, is ecological. We have heard that in this Chamber too. For information to Mr Velopoulos and the whole House, I inform you that the famous atmospheric methane is being ejected into our atmosphere, which is a powerful greenhouse gas with great global warming potential, greater - take care of me - even than that of carbon dioxide. Also, atmospheric methane negatively affects the military ozone, i.e. the ozone in the stratosphere. Remember what we've pulled out of the ozone hole. It strengthens her well. Hydrogens are not an ecological fuel at all. Now you will allow me to close - I will not speak much, I will not tire you - and stand on my most important argument from everything. Ladies and gentlemen, how dare you vote tonight on mining? Does that remind you of anything? I say again: How dare you deal with the future of our children and children as if it were a business, which, during her business, is entitled to take its risks? How dare you for a few or a lot more billion euros play with the chances of destroying our land and seas? Do you think maybe they belong to you? You're making a big mistake! They belong to all the next people who are to be born after us. If the particular risk you're taking tonight isn't going to go bankrupt, it won't just go bankrupt yet, but it will die forever a country that's already been bankrupt by all of you for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u63	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u64	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament's plenary is called on to ratify four conventions granting the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the areas of Ionian, Western Greece, to the west and to the south-west of Crete. And while New Democracy and SYRIZA are struggling with a game of impression about who has dealt with the issue better, the substance is one: once again a great patriotic effort of PASOK is justified. Who's that? The use of national deposits and hydrocarbons, which began in 1995 in PASOK, reminded me, with No 2289/95, of a new chapter and, indeed, of a very new chapter in the history of research on hydrocarbons in our country. Let me remind you that then the first international competition took place and began cowardly - the first investigations took place. Since then, sixteen years have passed until Law 4001/11 on Government again. And I'm talking about the government of George Papandreou 2009-2011. A common question, I would say, and a question: Why did we come back then? We have come back to modernise the existing legal framework at the time and to align it with international practices. Ladies and gentlemen, the new legal framework provided for enhanced investment incentives and strict environmental clauses and, of course, best practices in the granting of rights to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. We, Minister, have created the National Hydrocarbon Agency and, indeed, we have worked. It was announced in 2012, on the basis of the new legal framework at the time, an international round of concessions for the three Patraikos - Katakolo - Ioannina plots and we started to form the new market. Let me remind you that a central role in the development of the policy at the time was played by the professor and then Minister Yiannis Maniotis. He was the pioneer of this effort. I feel, therefore, to stress that in 2013, as Minister of the Environment at the time, Yiannis Maniotis introduced a mechanism of social solidarity in an ideal way. It recommended the creation of a National Social Solidarity Account from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons. So, what was that? A special account, which is intended to have nothing more than the creation of a large reserve, a reserve that would finance the pensions sector of social security institutions and, in particular, the safeguarding of the pensions of young generations. This law, ladies and gentlemen, provided that at least 70% of the public's revenue from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons would go to this national account, to the Social Solidarity Fund. 5% will go directly to the region, to the development of the region, because we are talking about regional development. 20% will go for back-up projects in the regions, and 5% can go to the insurance funds or other purposes too. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, the Maniotis Act was putting Greece, at the time, on a developmental orbit. That's the truth. Let's get the peep out of the eye. That is why today we believe that there are great potential for development in the country with these conventions. However, it becomes aware that our country is turning into an energy player, not only in the Mediterranean regions, but also more widely in Europe, and that it is geopolitically upgraded. I would say that it is becoming an energy hub in the Eastern Mediterranean, creating a new market with new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be sustainable, however, development needs to be exploited in the country's mineral resources, with respect for the environment and future generations. However, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Minister, you must make a commitment that best practices will be applied in relation to the environment so that local communities do not be imposed. You need to commit, Minister, that there will be respect for the environment against profit. After all, climate change requires environmental protection. For all of us this should be a priority. I would remind you, however, that thirty-five years have not even poured a drop of oil. On the contrary, we all know the environmental disaster that took place with "AYIA ZONI 2" in 2017. It remains, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that research and processing on all plots comply with the conditions laid down in the conventions. In the same context, all information should be provided on how the already ratified contracts in the past year are currently being made. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective is one and must be shared. We must not become arbitrary, we must not see irregularities, we must safeguard the national and local interests and lead our country to a developmental orbit. Because growth means progress, it means wealth. That's the point. Because the loan, as I have said on several occasions, has come to an end. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we, the Change Movement, say 'yes'. We call 'yes' to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Accelerate the procedures. Give us an implementation schedule. And, of course, you pay particular attention to the east plots, under Crete, since you are aware of Turkey's pursuits. For us, their strategic importance is great. The speed of movement can eliminate many problems. With regard to ELPEs and the developments that seem likely to follow, it is the Government's responsibility to ensure the public interest and public funds. Finally, it should be made clear whether privatization is to be carried out, to what extent and under what terms and conditions. And SYRIZA should not forget what he signed with the ELPE contracts, as well as the role of HIDE in the prospects of the ELPEs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because of the latest events with the operationalities, they must stop from all the political and party crowns and there must be national responsibility and responsibility for Turkey, with a national strategy. That is what our national identity demands, our national conscience, our national interest. After all, our common faith is that we do not grant inch and give nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, fifty one student and students and four teachers from the 5th General High School of Agaleo. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Papapastasis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have expressed your concern, even rhetoric, about the collective orthodoxy of the anti-population parties. You proposed to them a psychiatrist. Don't worry! They're healthy. They're with you. You are well aware that they support the main pillars of your policy. This also applies to today's contracts. Their objections are on individual issues. As for the JRC, it was, is, and will be, toward you, against the interests of the class you represent, of the bourgeoisie class. The position of order represented by the government was reflected in the vote in the European Parliament and by the vote by your MEP, Mrs Asmakopoulou, when she voted in favour of the obsolete anti-communist memorandum. This was also voted by the MEPs of the xenophobic, far-right, racist party of the Greek Solution. For the position - a flare now expressed, for the non-exploration of fossil energy resources, it is certainly important that the quality of the energy raw material. But what is dominant is whose hands the energy is. In conditions of capitalism, even the most clean energy will pollute the lives of the people, the workers. It will infect their everyday life when they do not have the opportunity to enjoy this energy. Ladies and gentlemen, today's central pursuit of Greece's urban order, through successive governments, is the transformation of the country into a hub of transport of goods and energy. This also shows the participation of large Greek groups in the exploitation of the underwater deposits of Greece, Cyprus and Israel. In the same plan, the struggle for the overpowering of the EAST MED submarine, against its transit through Turkey for the transport of natural gas from Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Cyprus through Greece to the European Union takes place. In this context, the Government now submits for ratification contracts structured on SYRIZA, giving Greece's mineral wealth to the groups "ENI", "TOTAL", "EXXONMOBIL" with the participation of ELPEs. These agreements, which are considered under the political and military prism, unwittingly contribute to the effort to promote and strengthen the axis of Greece - Cyprus - Israel - Egypt, always under the hegemony of the United States. The Government describes these contracts as a follow-up to a national plan for the overall upgrading of the country's geopolitical position with the energy-oriented. What doesn't the government say? It does not say a word about what the nearby geopolitical environment is in which it seeks to upgrade the country's geopolitical position. It makes no mention of the content of the concept of "upgrade", despite its clear position that this is one of the main reasons for the disposal of our mineral wealth. And all this because? Because it is the practice of urban governments, when they legislate, mislead and cheat the people, hiding the anti-popular direction of their decisions. Others say, they do. Today in our geopolitical environment, where government and opposition proclaim the desire to upgrade the country, competition between the US and Russia dominates. The particularly threatening outcome of Turkey's bourgeois pursuits to strengthen its position as a great regional force, which is struggling to join hard competition in the USA - Russia. In this context, the Government subscribes to contracts for the assignment of underwater mineral resources without going ahead with the procedure for the proclamation of EEZ, in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of Greece. It follows closely the relevant American advice, in essence suggestion. This is now becoming an extremely dangerous dimension, in a period of peaking the aggression of Turkey's bourgeoisie, an aggression which disputes the existing borders of the region by diplomatic and military means. It questions the Treaty of Lausanne. It attempts to create featuring grey zones in the Aegean Sea. How do these options of the current government explain? Is it topical and incompetence of its competent ministers? Do they express government cowardice and endlessness, in view of the provocative Turkish aggression that requires contempt in the Aegean Sea and the consideration of the Greek hydrocarbon deposits? None of this. The Government's attitude confirms that each civil government negotiates the country's sovereign rights in the light of the interests of big capital. This is also the case when it claims to be nationalist krone and when it retreates and is compatible with cosmopolitan sobriety. The criterion is always that of improving the position of the bourgeoisie in the international imperialist system. That is why the government is now opening up the way for co-existence under the cover of the American and French players who claim the lion's share. These developments also prove how false and dangerous it is to argue that geopolitically upgraded under the umbrellas of the United States - NATO - the European Union will be protected from the East. The signing of the conventions under discussion, through the professed geopolitical upgrade, will bring to our seas and the war armadas of the United States, France and Italy. It is today's tragicly dangerous image of the Cypriot EEZ. And if government and opposition close the eye to the people, presenting these fleets as a shield for the protection of Greece, we once again say that they actually have the wolf to guard the sheep. On all these issues, the only solution for the benefit of the people's interests requires a radical change of course. It requires the working class, the people really take the steering wheel of power and the keys to the economy. This is the solution that will ensure that the energy product is a social commodity and not a commodity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u67	And we, Mr. Comrade. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't know anyone could say in here what they want and hybrid others without being deleted from the Minutes. An ex-military man who swore to the nation in his uniform called us racists. Who's this gentleman? What right did this gentleman call us that? Because we voted? Not me, but do you know what? In their party they have not learned what democracy means. Our MEP voted in what he thought. Should I impose my opinion on him? I do not understand how democracy is perceived, but I do not understand the following: anyone who disagrees with the JRC is racist, they are nationalists, they are Soviets, far-righters. It could be what they want. I would like the word 'racist' to be deleted from the Minutes, because it also really affects democracy and Parliament, because the JRC at least respects democracy. That's what they say. They never do, because their immunity is peculiar. Once you criticize them, they throw away the labels. He said so, Madam President, the word 'racists'. I do not let anyone call the Greek 'racists' solution. I can talk. I grew up in Germany, I know what racism means, sir doesn't know. So wear the honored Greek uniform. I would ask that the word be deleted, because it is unacceptable to call the MPs and racist parties in Greece. Some must be embarrassed. Otherwise, I will not force any of my Members to vote for what I want. That means democracy. The JRC has a coordinate logic. They all vote together. And I cannot understand why they are in Europe because they do not like Europe. They don't like Europe. They are fighting Europe, but their European wages are getting their party. At some point, this peculiarity thing to stop. What would "racists" say? I don't understand that, Madam President. I would therefore ask that it be deleted from the Minutes, because the term is also illegal. Racists! Who? The man who wore the landmark in the Greek uniform here and swore to the nation? That's how the gentleman swore I didn't even know him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I have to ask this House for its opinion, if this phrase should and should be deleted from the Minutes. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u70	No, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, we insist on the designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u72	You have the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u73	In his speech, Mr. Velopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, this is a criminal offense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Velopoulou, please. Calm down, we'll find a solution. Please, you don't have to raise the tone in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u76	Enough of the JRC and its immunity! That's enough! We're not xenophobic. We are Greek patriots we love our country. It's over and over! Do you understand that, Mr. Karathanasopou? Do you know what patriotism means? You should find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u77	We'll find out? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, soon the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party will speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u79	You don't know that. You're racist. We love the nation and the country. You're wrong. That's what's cut off with us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Velopoulou, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u81	You're racist against the Greeks. That's who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Velopoulou, please. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party has the floor, and I hope that this dispute will be resolved and the House calmed down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u83	In the second "alt" shoot the immigrant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u84	In the third, 'alt'. On the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u85	In the third "alt" shoot the immigrant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u86	In the air, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u87	That's what Golden Dawn said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u88	You're a racist, you're a fascist! What you're doing is fascism!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u89	Who's talking? The donkey said the flying head!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u91	I'm not going to go on. We know each other very well in this place. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a picture of Parliament. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u93	He won't teach us lessons. We fought both German and Italian and Bulgarian fascism and all empires, Mr Velopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u95	We fought both Italian fascism and German and Bulgarian when some political ancestors worked with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u96	Look at Kristoff for the Slav-Macedonian battalions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u97	All right, you'll take the place of Golden Dawn, don't worry, you'll get it. That's patriotism! It is a serious debate today, in our view, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, and we will therefore apply for a roll-call vote, so that everyone can assume their responsibilities. It is very serious to approve these four agreements, because under the responsibility of the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, New Democracy and PASOK together, SYRIZA before and for those who agree with this ratification of the four concessions contracts, a crime is being committed against the Greek people. It is handed over, assigned, the country's mineral wealth, part of it - because it has a long history and then I will say it the other mineral wealth - and not even substituted to business groups, to large multinationals, such as TOTAL, EXONMOBIL, etc., of course in a partnership with domestic business groups, huge ones too. They'll win. These interests are served by contracts and not by satisfying people's needs. Besides, worldwide in capitalist countries, this has been proven everywhere. You have countries with oil incredible, with energy sources unbelievable and hungry peoples in Africa and around the world. The profits of all and with these agreements will go into the pockets of the multinationals and the locals, those who have money, and nothing crumbs, if they're even crumbs, may fall off the table. This is not strange, nor do we believe that something has been done. It is a consequence and a continuation of all governments so far that they have served these interests. And that's nothing taboo. When you say that the driving force of society is capital, and not those who produce wealth, they are the exploiters and not the exploiters, they are the ones who live and spend in a day while it costs a hundred people's lives, it makes sense to deliver even the mineral wealth and all the rest to these powers of capital. This is called capitalism and it's very simple and there's no need for misunderstandings. He needs ideological controversy. What are the results? We see them every day. And the controversy with SYRIZA is - how am I supposed to say it? - Fake. You know, sometimes you come out of your clothes. In other words, there is the agreement that you signed with the signature of the Minister, the government, and you say today, you find some inventions - in our view, it is a waste, Nikos Karathanasopoulos said so and others will say so - to get away. Why don't you vote if it's so serious? Why do you vote'substances'? If you say that they are so serious about what has to do with the ELPEs and all this invention - in our opinion - and the supposed guarantees that the SYRIZA Government has had, which have proved itself to be its policy, then you will vote against. Why are you going to vote'substances'? What does "parrow" mean? Do you vote to separate yourself from what? From your contract? There's a continuity here. The New Democracy Convention - PASOK is coming. The SYRIZA government is on its way. Yes or no? Am I right? He makes a new contract, votes for it with the New Democracy - yes or no? - in the previous House. The latter is now coming, which signes it before the elections, and says he will vote 'the present'. It's hypocritical. The strategy is exactly the same. In fact, the strategy is the same and I will say a few things about the ELPEs you say and all the rest. I mean, I don't understand. Is this agreement that you have read to us or not, Mr Hatzidakis, about the ELPEs, that they will go to the HIDE and that they will see forms too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u98	It was theirs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u99	That was privatization. So, we're gonna disagree with the forms of privatisation? This is what PASOK said before, too, to experience - he said - the privatisations of profitable sectors and of the ECJ. Let's get out whenever you want! As far as OTE is concerned, where did you sell him and say "no share of individuals", how much profits did he get when he was sold? He had 250 billion drachmas. It's over. Where'd that go? What is OTE today? It's "DEUTSCHE TELEKOM"! Not that we support - where is Mr Varoufakis? It is not here - state-owned companies in capitalism, but experience from all the privatisations and from all the years about what has happened. They built the Greek people with wild taxation, with deprivation, with work, with OTE, PPC, as well as when they became profitable - because they couldn't make investments at that time and they didn't want to, because they had long-term returns on big businessmen and monopolies - they gave the profitable pieces. This sold a textile with EUR 1 billion in stock at EUR 300 million in New Democracy! But all the governments did the same. We therefore need to discuss the substance. They are your own agreements - and we are making criticisms of them - which the New Democracy is now bringing and which are the same. We will also ask some questions: why are we not talking about the general environment, where we are, where we are, about this so-called 'geographical upgrade'? What does "gestrategic upgrade" mean? Greece has filled American bases. He participates everywhere, billions, 4.1 billion euros paid by the Greek people, goes to Norway, to all NATO's high schools. Wherever they ask him, he's involved. Is this the geostrategic upgrading of the country or those interests that have the wealth of the country and which want to take part in the sharing and redistribution of markets, roads of transport and all the other things that are happening in the region? Well, from New Democracy nobody expects. It's just you of SYRIZA put the bat high with the Americans and NATO, and now it's running to reach him. That's what happened and it's getting him fine. Because, after all, he always said the same thing. This means, therefore, "gestrategic upgrading", to take part in the Greek capital through the imperialist organisations that protect the interests of international capital and, more generally, the sharing that is taking place in the region and at the same time to give the energy resources it currently has to the Americans, the French, the large monopolies, that is. Profit what? What will the people gain? Everything he won from the RES, Mr. Varoufakis, gentlemen of Merra. What did the Greek people gain from the RES? He's paying for more taxation. They're commencing the power? Oh, no. Is the Greek people or not funding the big business in the RES? Secondly, our sovereign rights will be protected. How will they be protected, when we join and do - not subjection, I do not know what follows - bow, fertilize - say it to the cleanser - the Americans and NATO, that is, to the sovereigns of the earth, who are so humanistic, that slaughter all of mankind every day? And here they will protect the sovereign rights of the country and not theirs! Does anyone know what is going on in the region where explosive contradictions and antagonisms are gathered throughout the modern capitalist world? Does not anyone know the competitions of the Americans - the European Union? They're all against everyone. Does anyone know of the alliances that are taking place, that change NATO's fight against China for commercial reasons, both with Russia and with the military in the region? Nobody knows? We are addressing the people. Syria: blood, war, disasters, immigrants. Lebanon: The same, before. Yemen. Iraq before. Persian: acidification. Turkey's attack. Israel's attack. Are these true or not in the area? Either you live on another planet or we tell the truth. And I ask, and I refer to Mera25, which says the mining is over: Who is the common denominator? Petroleum. Blood everywhere. Isn't that what they're doing? Why did they overthrow Gaddafi where they hosted him as a god in Italy? Why did he go to change the oil conventions? Isn't that right, Mr. Hatzidakis? Did they remember democracy? Why are they fighting Assad? Why did they go to Iraq? Where are Saddam's biological weapons? Were they found? What's underneath it? Petroleum and oil transport routes. So, what do our sovereign rights will the Americans and NATO protect? Are you serious? Are you all unscrupulous in here? What was NATO doing on the night of the Imales? Didn't he know it was Greek the Imia? Why didn't he make a announcement that it was Greek? What does America say so far about the claims? He makes a statement and plays in a double tableau. Isn't that what it does all the time? She cares very much. He is a strong ally for both NATO and for general interests and not to stick more with Russia, which is, of course, a powerful capitalist country. And will it protect our interests? Really, when the Turks went to the Cypriot EEZ, did the US and NATO take the military power away immediately? Why didn't they? Was it a violation of the Cypriot EEZ under International Maritime Law? Yes or no? It was. All governments and the Cypriot Government state this. So why did your “great” and “terrible” allies not take down five planes and the powers they have and say: “Go away. Don't you come in"? That would be it. Of course, they will not, as will the Europeans not do, do about Turkey's aggression, because Germany has huge investments in Turkey. It's a big market and she wants it, beyond other interests. Myth, then! As NATO protected Cyprus in 1974, which was behind the coup d'état for certain reasons, this will protect Greek interests today. That's what we're talking about for the people. You know them. But you're taking a clear position. Barbarity on the one hand and on the other hand wrestling to overthrow it. Here you have written politically, no matter what anyone can believe in, with capitalist and imperialist barbarism. For our own contracts, we say that the multinationals have written them, as they always do. As he wrote in the White Paper, which dismantled all the industrial relations, the Association of European Industrialists - and this was revealed, he gave it, he served in the European Parliament and went out - and, as they write, legislation - not by dictation, they have their people, they have their governments - so these conventions were written. They're cut and sewn to their own measures. What issues are there with regard to these contracts? There is no substantial state control over research, results and exploitation. Is this an exaggeration? Where are you going to get the information on the investigations? From what companies themselves do. Yes or no? Isn't that what contracts say? And who told us - why do we know from the past - that they will give you what they really are and not what they want? Secondly, the results: the same. Third, on the farm: The same. When do we have a right? Only, he says, in the event of war we commit possible mining. The others are in their hands. It's all sold out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Madam President. Secondly, you hire - you will tell me that's centrally these - plots without knowing their value. Isn't that right? Do you know what these plots have? Who's gonna tell you what they have and how much do they have? Without even knowing them, with cases not documented - these are for everyone, because the contract is all those who vote for it at least - you split up. Thirdly, the mining method: there is an experience, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece that nobody will ever have to see. I will give you an example. "LARCO": How did LARCO become? He put 12% of Bodossakis on, he gave loans, loan, and unscrupulously, where? From the money of IKA, from ETVA, which had been committed by the governments with 0% and free of charge to the mountains of Greece. So what did Bodossakis do, like all the individuals? He searched and took the richest ore. Over-exploitation started, it took the richest, and when the poorest began - and for other reasons, of course - it got up and left when it had to make other changes. The same is happening in ‘PESINE’. The same thing was done by "PESINE", so did Skallistis - to tell you from Central, which I know very well - the same happened in other regions of Greece. It makes sense, because they're chasing the direct profit. They don't care about the future. They want to make as many as possible. Same here. Who guarantees you, and even from the oil exploding, that they won't pull all these deposits and when the cost starts and becomes greater, they won't get up and go and I don't know what else they're going to do? Fourthly, the environment: we have not received an answer. Our rapporteur has also put a number of questions to the committee. First, seismicity. The Ionian Sea especially, but also south of Crete and Greece as a whole is an earthquake area. What effect will it have? Second, depleted uranium bombs. That's why no one's talking. NATO has thrown them out of the war against Yugoslavia. Then they didn't get up differently. What's their name? - ecological organizations, which fell depleted uranium, cancer, death. Twenty-one Greeks died in Kosovo, I don't know how many Italians. They all buried them. In fact, when we had raised a subject, it came to the progressive one - I will say, it does not matter - 'ELLEROTYPIA', a last name article that I know did not express the newspaper, which said that 'when we want investments in the Balkans, it must be an army and protect them and let hypocrisy go'. Third theme, toxic waste leak, accidents. How are they protected? In what terms? You remember and you know what happened in the Gulf of Mexico. Fourthly, an impact on mammalian fish, an impact on fishing in the region. What will it have, or do we tear them all apart? Okay, you exclude NATURA, but that doesn't mean anything. How many areas are in NATURA? Here there's life all over the sea. So on this issue too, the environment, the international standards that you say we respect, who puts them? They themselves, i.e. multinationals indirectly and through their governments. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And because we are talking a lot about the environment and the movement that is now developing, about the men of Mera25 from where they do not listen - Mr Varoufakis may listen - we want to say this: we do not underestimate, on the contrary, what movements are developing. We're just saying that, apart from the environment, there's man. The man, of course, is recyclable. Isn't that right? She's born, that's why we don't pay attention. Syria, Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan, throughout all mankind plus, daily, how many are killed? This movement must have a denominator, or else it will become, and I say so, like the notorious social forums that started in the 1990s that would build a capitalism with a human face. It must point to this barbaric system. I wish that he would not leave him alone and take such features and he would not listen very much to the “EIA”, not the Athenian News Agency, but to the RES. There are huge interests. So, tell us, are the A.L.D.s that put on the A.D.s, the wind turbines that are full of all Greece? What study says what environmental impact will it have on the microclimate, the migration of birds, in general, in the fauna and flora of each region? Is there any serious? None. What's there? The profit. That's it, too. To finish, because I'm about to consume my dentistry time, but I'm not going to talk for a second time. So we say - because Mr Varoufakis criticized us for state and private, he does not care - that we are not interested in being state-owned in a capitalist state or private, because the state for capitalism is also working, for business. Why? Who was PPC working for? Five drachmas were paid the kilowatt now, the consumer was eighteen. How much did "PESIN" burn? As long as the whole of Thessaloniki. And state to be what does it matter? And privately, it's working for them again. We are talking about other development, with respect for the environment, that serves man. All I said about the studies are prerequisites. And this has proved beyond the weaknesses and the problems of socialism and it has faced. I'll tell you one thing. Twenty years in the Soviet Union they were studying to turn two rivers into the wreaths. You know what that means, what the steppes would be. And the Higher State Committee decided that they would not turn them over, because it would have effects on the environment after too many years. And they stopped it. Mistakes may have been made, but it was a different concept, and another is our perception. It is, of course, natural that, in a different perspective, we do not vote for these four conventions and we will also be calling for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u100	Please take the floor, Mr. Constantine Boubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u101	We've changed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u102	We have changed, Mr President, to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Hetas has the floor for six minutes because your Chief has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u104	Yes, I know, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u105	As President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Group, I have a priority, Mr President, and I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Varoufakis, I'll be six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u107	I'd like to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u108	Should I get off the Step, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u109	The President won't be long. Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry, Mr. Colleague, I won't talk much. I want to answer my friend and colleague, Mr. Paphie. Mr Paphie, first of all I do not know if you have noticed my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u111	I heard you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u112	Firstly, congratulated the JRC for voting against. Our only difference is whether we are against mining in general or simply against the tradition of both ELPE and fossil fuels, the sources, in multinationals. That's our difference. We, as far as I understand - I hope that this difference does not even exist - are perpendicular to any mining, whether it is made by a State company or by a private company, whether it is multinational or it is one-national. You asked the question, and I was listening from my office - and I'm sorry I wasn't here, I had an appointment - on the subject of the RES. There is no doubt that in the stone years of the crisis, and in particular in recent years, renewable energy sources have also become glorious for the oligarchy, that they are being exploited by specific companies with transparent contracts, in a way that circumvents basic environmental planning principles in the Agras, as you said, etc. However, there is a huge difference between RES and mining, between wind turbines, photovoltaics on the one hand and fossil fuel on the other. In the good fight society we would have wind turbines and we would have photovoltaics today, but we would not have platforms and we would not have drills, we would not proceed to speed up climate catastrophe in good, socialist society, if you like. That's a big difference. Secondly, it is of great importance that the next, huge importance. Petroleum, natural gas by definition - so it is the political economy in this sector of the economy - based on vertical concentration, are based on large companies, which are hierarchically structured, start from the platform and end up in the gas station or the gas pipeline. I'm just saying. There by definition the company will be big, it'll be one-block. Either it's "EXXON", but it can be state too. The beauty and promise of the RES is that they technologically give you the ability of the decentralised, smart network, where important units in the neighborhoods, communities, villages, towns, may belong to the municipalities, belong to the neighborhoods, belong to communities, families, small but many production units networked through a public distribution network of the electricity produced from these plants. In other words, the RES is built for socialist networks and it is by definition what you, as a JRC, should go along with. The fact that in the country of debt-government so many years certain business groups have been using the RES for enrichment, in the context of oligarchy of oligarchy, does not mean that you need to oppose the RES and equate them with oil and natural gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u114	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u115	These, Mr. Varoufakis, you may teach them at the university, but we have read something as a whole, and we are looking for something about what is going on. I think you understand very well. We're talking about another society. We are not talking about capitalist production relations, about delusion and the myth of socialist communities within capitalism. There's nowhere to be found. If there's any municipality that's advanced, that's the exception. If we do not overturn all these productive relationships that exist today, it will be in the hands of those who have power, which are the bourgeoisie and the multinationals. Don't do what you don't understand. We are therefore not opposed to the RES, but I have set a few dimensions, because things are not so simple, because the consequences of some things, when they have not been well studied, seem after many years. Nor can it in Kopaida, which is a production, invest in photovoltaics and capture land, because it makes more profit than onions or any other product, regardless of what is all about agricultural production. Don't do what you don't understand. We're not talking about state-owned companies, because they're also in capitalism. I said that if you heard me. We are talking about socialism, about other forms of organization in society, where human beings will dominate, first human beings, and within them and the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u116	So what do we do until then?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u117	Please don't have a dialogue, just so we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u118	Until then, we will fight fast not to serve, Mr. Polakis, because when you fight to improve capitalism, you become his best servant, if you don't fight to overthrow him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Hetas has the floor for six minutes, given the fact that your party leader also spoke. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. For unequivocal reasons, after three months in the Greek Parliament, we have been attacked today by our colleague from the KKE, who - I was informed by my colleagues - was also a uniform and also has the ethnicity in his chest. We called on the JRC to see if they were at an unfortunate time to recall and not recall. Since they have not withdrawn and have not been deleted from the Minutes, Mr President, this racist comment by my colleague, I would also like to say that you of the JRC are racist and fearful towards the Greeks. I would ask you very much, Mr President, to write this in the Minutes, as the previous one has been written. We gave it a chance to withdraw. I think it was an unfortunate moment for my colleague. He didn't get it. So since you are against Europe, ladies and gentlemen - of course the twenty grand are sweet - I say you leave Europe, NATO, this tape you are all putting on and retracting. Because I see that when you go up to the Step, you're struggling. You haven't learned it from outside in all these years. It's okay. We really prefer, gentlemen of the JRC, to be found by those who obey Stalin and by us to protect Greek citizens and Greeks in general. Thousands of times to protect the Greeks and you to find us who obey Stalin. When you apologize for the massacre of the Greeks by Stalin, then come and talk. Because I have my time and he's valuable, I won't deal with you any more. You had the opportunity to withdraw and you did it today for no reason. So you've been fearful and racist towards the Greeks and bear witness to the concrete 5% you've had forty years, 5% a life there, in itself and in the same! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I shall go on with a brief comment on the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Mr Gregoriadis, because you referred to the reference made by our President, Mr Velopoulos, to hydrogens, first of all, I would like to say that hydrogens are the fuel of the future. It is very easy - you know - to google, to find something, to go up to the Step of the House, to call something new that a party president said and leave. I would also like to say that the scooter you, as you mentioned, pollutes the environment less, with oil made, with oil extraction made, has PVC, has plastics, burns gas, burns oil. I would also like to say that I understand that this political exploitation which is being attempted by you, the'sensitized', as if we were not. As for the refugee, migratory, polarising, and the rest. We're the inhumans, you're the humanists. We don't care about the environment, you care. So you put the kids, the little ones, the little ones and you say you're very sensitive, you're politically taking advantage of the issue. But let's start with us, Mr. Georgiadis. Fly now your smartphone, which is made of oil mining materials. So start the ecological effort you have from now on, because I see Tablets you have, and mobile smartphones etc. Let's not be hypocritical. As far as hydrocarbons are concerned, the salvage year 2019, ladies and gentlemen, will remain in history until the year of the beginning of the recovery of Greek hydrocarbons. You finally deserved us, after too many years and you were mainly entitled to this man who sat there shouting for ten years for hydrocarbons and many of you made fun of him and called him graphics. I want to talk about some other issues of topicality, Mr President. The Greeks say that when we can't think, we're thinking. We had meetings. The bill you are preparing, gentlemen of the New Democracy, for dealing with illegal immigration, I can say it's a hole in the water. First of all, I am pleased to hear from members of the government - and not just from Members of the New Democracy - who are not just grievous, but who are now speaking about immigrants. I wondered whether Mr Kumucako was here this morning at the 'AND1'. When the Greek Solution said that, it was the extremist views, we were not humanists, we were not thinking of the poor people who are coming, while you all the humanists have taken them home and you are hosting them. Following a question by Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, he revealed that seven jihadists went to Greece this morning and said to Mr. Koumotsakos to Mr. Papadakis, the Deputy Minister, that 70% of immigrants are Afghans and Africans. What kind of war refugees are they? 70% of those in our country - who are inside the snake - are Afghans and Africans. Mr. Kumoutsakou said so. What are they, like, war refugees, guys, so I can understand? If they're war refugees, fine, let's move on. Did you see what they said yesterday in videos circulating online? 'Kill the policy'. And they will now be taken from the islands or from the hot spots - the unacceptable - and we will take them to mainland Greece. Can you imagine having any massive uprising of all those who call and hesitate to kill and say "kill the policy"? What are we gonna expect from them? Create hot spots, Velopoulos said yesterday in Anchovies, at a distance of breath from where we have our F-16. Winter will be difficult, and it will be a time of adaptation, so the rest will come. It is not a solution to decongested hot spots on mainland Greece, to bring more. We must create unfavourable conditions for all of these people to think about it twice and three times to come here. And since we are an equal member of the European Union - it is not about the JRC, because it is against the European Union, but it is about the 20th of the European Union, it is all right - I must say that, as an equal member of the European Union, we are asking the European Union, Minister, to help and support and to close our borders, as has been shut down by Europe and we cannot leave the immigrants above or the poachers and stay with us and we have become a storeroom of souls. What kind of relationship is it that we have as an equal member of the European Union? No parity I can see. I see a farm against I don't know how many silvers. I just want to make a little comment. I saw yesterday and I was really sorry, because normality, unfortunately, returned to Greece very quickly. I am thinking in particular of Mr Chrysochide's area. Yesterday, a prisoner in the Department of Excavations just pushed off two policemen and they're still looking for him. "Watch to run" said on "Seal of the 16th". I would like to say on this occasion that the policeman must be trained, the policeman must be trained to respond to these incidents. But what can we expect from the policeman when we have him left over, and the police men feel neglected, with damaged vehicles, no material? Nothing. We don't keep the elementary stuff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we're going to something last: Back to the crime scene for Mr. Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, for Alexis Tsipras, who is proud yesterday - and well he does, at least they're honest with what SYRIZA's people do and they advertise it - he went back to Skopje at the scene of the crime, and made his well-known meeting with Mr. Zaev, his brother friend, with whom he signed, together with Mr. Kotzias, the shameful Prespecies' agreement. Mr. Tsipras told us yesterday at some point when he confessed to speaking to the media, that he almost blew up the deal in the air, he says. "We have lifted the pencils in the air." And there, obviously, the New Democracy's horrific people said: 'Don't! Finish the deal, we don't have any trouble now, and we take the deal in our hands. Complete it.’ Well, the only ones who are really concerned about this issue, ladies and gentlemen, are the Members of the New Democracy, who are now relieved of this agreement. I just want to say: since you're so annoyed, Mr. Hatzidakis, Admiral, come with us. You also served the army. We're ten, let's have twenty other MPs, not anything else, but to get Kotzia here. Don't you want to know what happened in the Prespecies Agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u121	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you very much. Don't you want to know? Since you're so sensitive, and he sold you so much. And why am I saying this? I don't call it random. Today, this is what I'm tabling in the Minutes. "Macedonia" has once again been the Skopje in an international exhibition. Give me a minute, Mr President, please. "Indicative recent sample is the organisation in Skopje of an international industrial exhibition, of course entitled "Macedonia", "Macedonia Manufacturing EXPO 2019", which the Commission itself thus mentions, called Macedonia. That's it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Heitas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Congratulations. The state has continued, gentlemen, in New Democracy. Continue to be SYRIZA's tail.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Will Mr. Konstantinos Boubas come to Stepma from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, we had said that Mr Kavvada would first speak so that two speakers would not fall together from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u125	I'm sorry, I didn't know you agreed to a change. Do you have any objections, Mr. Booba?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u126	I have no problem with that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u127	Good. Let Mr. Kavada be ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation is now being called upon to ratify four agreements concerning the extraction of hydrocarbons in the Ionian and Crete regions. The fact that these are contracts signed under the SYRIZA government shows that there can be continuity in the state and in political planning on the crucial issues of the place. Of course, we see that SYRIZA, having recaptured its natural space as Antipopulation, is re-engaging in revolutionary gymnastics. With advances it attempts to retreat from agreements it signed as a government, apparently judging at that time that they were beneficial to the place. And it comes today and votes for the contract that he signed, justifying this absurdity with unspeakable arguments about the ELPEs, when the SYRIZA Government under the third memorandum made the country's contractual obligation to privatise them. A privatization, which has not been done since there has been no change in the ownership composition of ELPEs. It's a hypocritical attitude at least. However, these do not make any difference, ladies and gentlemen, because in any case the original expression of development and investment policies is the New Democracy, which is in the government today. The Government of New Democracy, therefore, without hunger and without second thoughts, calls on Parliament to support the ratification of contracts on hydrocarbons. Because it is approaching over time the question of the research and development of the deposits, in terms of national interest, and it certifies against all its will to secure Greece's position on the global energy and geopolitical map. Because, as an energy hub, Greece can enjoy peace, security, economic prosperity and social progress. Ladies and gentlemen, many of our fellow citizens, particularly in the Ionian Islands, are concerned about the environmental impact of mining. I listen very carefully and understand their concern, especially of fellow citizens from Lefkada. But I, both as their representative in Parliament and the government, must assure them that the strict framework for environmental protection at both research and production stage, as reflected in the agreements, will be complied with outright. All research and mining activities will be carried out in a fully environmentally compatible manner, because companies are obliged to comply fully with all relevant national and European legislation. They are obliged to move within the current framework, the Strategic Environmental Impact Study on Hydrocarbons, which defines the terms and conditions at each research and exploitation stage of hydrocarbons. Good international practices, and also the international presence of special scientists and observers on board, which will carry out research and mining and have the possibility of stopping any activity for any problem arising either from seismicity, the environment or in particular marine mammals. In addition, state research bodies such as the University of Patras, the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, the Geodynamic Institute are active, closely following processes at all stages, ensuring the maintenance of impact reduction protocols and operating on behalf of the state and citizens as depositaries of legality and security. There is therefore a large number of safeguards for the provision and avoidance of risks and a strict framework for monitoring the entire activity, research and extraction of hydrocarbons. At the same time, however, we have to agree that both the country and the local communities need to invest in a variety of economic sectors. After all, around mining will thrive on many economic activities, such as geological and environmental research, transport, supplies and so on. In these areas we must give weight, stimulate their development and at local level. Minister, I consider it very important that there should be a central planning for informationing local societies. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the hydrocarbons conventions will benefit both national and local economies. The revenues for the State are secured through the rent for areas and other significant provisions. And, of course, there is tax revenue, which together with rent is estimated to amount to 40% of the total economic benefit of the investment. Of course, there are also indirect benefits. For all workers employed in research and mining, 3,2 new jobs are expected to be created in the wider economy. In addition 5% of the revenue is allocated to the regions to be made available to local communities, while 20% is allocated to the Green Fund in order to finance environmental protection projects at regional level. Ladies and gentlemen, the research and development of the hydrocarbon deposits in Greece is a strategic choice with a national, geopolitical and development dimension. This strategic option, a choice that is made with respect to the environment, with a strict institutional framework to eliminate risks, with protection measures for ecosystems, dictates the ratification of these conventions to the New Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you too, Mr Cavada, and respect for the time. Please beg Mr. Constantine Boubas, from the Greek Solution to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all the Minister here, Mr Hatzidakis, is here, because I wanted to set another parameter. Mr Minister, since yesterday I have been studying which country we can take as a model for the exploration of hydrocarbons. I have therefore found that in this country, for which Giorgos Papandreou once said we should become Denmark of the South, if we want to benefit from the hydrocarbon extraction, we must say that we will become Norway of the South. So listen, ladies and gentlemen, because the numbers really impress by studying the Norwegian model, but it has ensured that these profits remain for the next generations. I also heard Mr Kegeroglu make a reference to Law 4123/2013 on the National Social Solidarity Account, which is according to the Norwegian model. However, the New Democracy gentlemen should be careful here because teachers say that most of the mistakes are made in copying. And because it is a copy of the Norwegian model, we should be careful, as it is the National Social Solidarity Account that will receive dividends, rights, and from the taxation of hydrocarbons in combination with the other action that took place for the Development Bank of Greece in 2013. It's in the right direction. But look at what the Norwegians do. The Norwegians are therefore introducing a special tax, which is 54% for companies operating hydrocarbons in the North Sea. In 2018 they amend the tax framework and put 23% and 55% respectively and reach up to 78%. Of course, only net profits are taxed. Mr. Papantoniou in the PASOK government reduced taxation in 2010. This is a crime if we go to Greece. Going to the second parameter. Our President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, pointed out the controversial articles that do not provide profits, as well as the composition of the Technical Advisory Committee, as well as the staff who will be recruited, which must be Greek. But look at something else. In 1962 the "PHILLIPS PETROLEUM" comes to Norway and gives 160,000 dollars to Norway. The Norwegians realise that there cannot be a monopoly from only a multinational, they change the whole framework in May 1963, and they give twenty-two licences to increase the competition limits in the region and they do not accept the $160,000. They set up a Petroleum Fund in 1990. They invest in a large surplus that today - notice has its value - the value of mutual capital is a trillion dollars. Each citizen is worth $180 million. They have 48% more GDP than that on average of the European Union and unemployment of 4.1%. In 1959 everyone denied the deposits where a gas look was found in the Netherlands and so it began. The most important thing now is that they also respect environmental conditions, because we do not keep hearing about the greenhouse effect. According to a report by Professor Foscolos from the University of Crete, the greenhouse effect is repeated in the country every ten to twelve thousand years. So don't give all of it to hydrocarbons, since the human factor is the 6.2% increase in carbon dioxide and we don't always blame carbon dioxide, because it's a key component in the life form of the planet. We do not, however, say that we should not unreservedly respect environmental conditions. So Norway worked. I now come to the point at issue. In order for there to be transparency, but also to be able to secure a wealth in the next generations, the Norwegian management company takes no funds from the funds for government expenditure but only 3%. So, what are the Norwegians doing? They have money, but they do not take it for government spending, because they want to ensure that the next generations of money, when the oil reserves are exhausted, are paid off. It is an example to be imitated. They are part of the initiative for the transparency of mining industries, made up of fifty one members. That's what Tony Blair had done, and the Norwegians came in. Someone will tell me: The Norwegians why they are dealing with hydrocarbons, while the Swedish, who too have a strong economy, not while they are coming with them on the Nordic peninsula? There is other trade cooperation from the benefits of Norway, which is committed to its trade balance, to make some imports from neighbouring Sweden, but also Finland. The JRC is missing. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we should also talk about another treaty which has been binding on Greece for seventy years. I would expect the JRC to give a hint on March 30, 1952, on Ilias Argyriadis, Nikos Kalogannis, Nikos Belogannis and Dimitris Batsi. What did Dimitris Batsis say in the Cooper Treaty, which was signed in 1945 in Greece? Was Greece binding against American interests? Writing in the book "The heavy industry of Greece" Batsi said since then that "Opposite", scientific training, can pass to popular domination and get us out of the memoranda. In 2010 the Cooper Treaty, which has put Greece hostage to its mineral wealth, expired, while Greece - take note, ladies and gentlemen - has: Setters, first in the world. Vixite, now that France is not producing, Greece is the first. Manganese, nickel in the areas of Drama, which are rich in deposits. Dimitris Batsis, a friend of the JRC who was executed with the carnation, Belogannis, on March 30, 1952, at the command of the Americans. Why did they execute Batsi? It is simply because he knew about the Cooper Treaty, a treaty in which we are still hostages, and it is no accident that we entered the memoranda. Minister, watch out for us to go to a Norwegian model, so our children too can have money from this story and not be bound to the finest letters of certain conventions, as we are committed to the Cooper Treaty. I waited today for the JRC to talk about Dimitris Batsi, but he didn't talk. This man has fought his own battle to prove that Greece since then has been able to exploit its mineral wealth and get out of the economic stagnation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. Mr Mamulakis Charalambos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now the National Representation to ratify the Convention on the Research and Development of Four Lands in the North, the West and South of our country. The initiative of the current leadership of the RIS and the current government is certainly indicative of the climate of political consensus in relation to the exploitation of our country's energy wealth and in that sense one could assume that the policies of the parties are similar. However, let me refer to the different perspectives and strategies expressed by New Democracy and KINAL by SYRIZA in relation to what this issue is. At the same time, however, I would like to refer to another major issue, the reasonable criticism of a part of our country's ecological organisations and many sensitive citizens towards the environment, who feel that this policy is inconsistent with the 'green' transformation of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, the exploitation of hydrocarbon stocks in our country has a long and painful route. It is directly linked to the differences we have with the neighbouring country regarding the question of the Greek EEZ. It is true, however, that the revival of the issue is taking place during the period of the crisis and the memoranda, when the European Union had set its high priority the diversification of Europe's natural gas sources. In this wider geopolitical environment, the vision of the exploitation of the country's energy potential is rekindled and on that by the then government and the Minister for Energy reflect the current institutional framework for the exploitation of hydrocarbons is Law 4001/2011, which substantially enriches Law 2289/1995 and creates the body responsible for the proclamation and processing of the relevant tenders, the ERC. At the same time, it forms a super-philosophical, not to mention an atrocious project for the exploitation of this natural resource. On the basis of this plan, all marine areas on the west coast of the country will be proclaimed on a reasonable fast-track conversion of Greece from a country's deficit to the consumption of liquid fuels in the imaginary Saudi Arabia of the Southeast Mediterranean. The government change in 2015 comes along with the results of these policies. In fact, of the ten underwater plots that had only been announced for a few of them, there had been substantial investment interest, but also the body responsible for the implementation of this project, the ESA, was in fact a drawing on paper, with offices in the underground of the Ministry of the Environment. The government of SYRIZA was invited, not only to give flesh and bone to this new body, but also to be able to cope with, with no experience in the public administration on the subject, in discussions with the companies that, in the course of the course, expressed interest by signing and ratifying the first submarines on the subject in the history of the Greek state. By remodeling the tender policy, it has chosen to go further, preferring that investors should expect their interest under the relevant law of the European Union, instead of going ahead with new quasi-host competitions, which would push the country's negotiating margins towards companies downwards, reducing potential advantages for local communities and the public fund. Indicative of the effectiveness of this policy is that two major conventions for the south of Crete are not even in the initial design under Ministerial Government Giannis Maniotis and for them they have only been two years since the date of the initial investment interest, record time considering binding interim legal stages, such as the duration of the tender, the timing of completion of environmental licensing, the Court of Auditors, etc. At the same time, however, the different policy of the parties of power, at least in relation to this issue, is reflected in the different policy on the role, functioning and importance of the ELPEs in the process of exploiting this natural resource. It is worth reminding us here to the few - unfortunately - Members of the Coupling, who are present in the Chamber today, that according to the previous government's sale of shares of the "Greek Petroleum" in collaboration with the private shareholder of ELPE, the Greek State retained veto rights, veto rights, on issues relating to the operation of refineries, the supply of the company and the strategic stocks of the country. Above all, however, in this process, as in SYRIZA, the rights of research and exploitation would remain in one company, the majority of which would remain under public control. Based on the above plan, the signing of the contracts would not only work proliferationally in relation to the benefits for the Greek economy and the country's ability to plan its energy needs, but would also help to reduce any reactions to local communities. Instead, the current government is dealing with this issue through leaks, whereby public participation in ELPEs is expected to be transferred in the form of the progressive sale of shares on the stock market and even at a reduced price compared to its current stock exchange value. Another sign of apparent differentiation in SYRIZA's policy towards and from the present government is the established sensitivity to the issues of environmental protection. This was clearly reflected both in the resolution of Law 4409/2016 incorporating the directive on the safety of offshore works and the explicit prohibition of any activities of shale gas pursuant to Article 59 of Law 4602/2019. At the same time, it has also created the institution of the Local Hydrocarbon Observatorys, so that local communities are directly involved in the control and supervision of research work, and on this subject we expect to hear the intentions of the present government today. A similar obligation of the State, which is in the intentions of the present Government, is to strengthen the control mechanisms of the State and, in particular, of the Mining Inspectorate, the service which is now under Article 85 of Law No4602/2019 responsible for controlling workers' health and safety issues in the installations concerned. Finally, let me note that it goes without saying that the design of the respective government in the field of the exploitation of hydrocarbons must be in line with the country's energy planning. To match, in other words, the expected decrease in the country's hydrocarbon needs over a decade with the need to undercut the current account by substituting imports of hydrocarbons from the country's territory. In this sense, a new round of additional land notices is neither economically appropriate nor environmentally desirable. The difficult balance we are called upon as a country to find between the economic necessity and the ecological risk we take should not disorientate us from the need for urgent action and climate change. In this perspective, we believe, first and foremost, that in those areas where a fruitless investigation is being carried out on hydrocarbons deposits, the relevant right of the consortium in question should not be renewed. Secondly, in future, there will be no reopening of a new land-based look, of data and of environmental impacts on land. Thirdly, the marine land should be reassessed only after the completion of this round of investigations and if the country's energy needs so require. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has made a methodical effort to bring our country forward with careful and prudent steps in the direction of energy wealth and has achieved substantial results. The ratification of contracts is currently being dealt with in a new context of mining visas taking into account, in particular, the draft privatisation of ELPEs. Today the government and the present Mr Hatzidakis must respond to their plan to exploit the future deposits, to abandon the exaggerations and maximism with which they have been expressed in the past. Above all, however, they must respond to their plan on the fate and future of the ELPEs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u133	Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the different points of view which we do indeed all have, we also have a duty to think about the future. The sanctions for the four lease agreements for the grant of the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, which we have to vote on, are an important fact relating to the future of Greece and the future of its citizens. And that - I believe - we recognise all the political groups that we are here today. These conventions have a geopolitical dimension. They concern the exercise of national sovereignty and national sovereign rights. At a time when Europe is generally being tested by the crises that are constantly occurring next to us, the existence of a plan to fill our energy gap is essential, not only to ensure a degree of energy independence but also because, in the course of these operations, we will generate proactive revenues, which are revenues for public, employment and development. The contracts for the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons are, in our view, an act of economic development and also of social solidarity, particularly because they are linked to the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind the words of the Seferis, who says that 'carrying out a piece of the past is like extinguishing a part of the future', I cannot help but point out today that our line is justified for its great patriotic efforts. One of them, therefore, was - and we are proud of - the use of national hydrocarbon deposits. This is an effort launched in 1995 on PASOK under Law 2289/1995 and opened a new chapter in the history of research and hydrocarbons in Greece. Sixteen years later, again in PASOK government, the existing legal framework was modernised and aligned with international practices through Law 4001/2011. This new institutional framework provided for enhanced investment incentives but also strict environmental clauses and, of course, best practices in conferring rights to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Minister, we created the Greek Hydrocarbon Agency. In 2012, under the new institutional framework, an international round of concessions for the three plots was announced: Patraikos, Katakolo, Ioannina and we started to form the new market. Also, Minister, we tabled the proposal for a law establishing a National Social Solidarity Account, which was voted in 2013 and was incorporated by the then Minister in the Solidarity Capital. At that time, Yiannis Maniatis, as Minister for the Environment, recommended a mechanism of social solidarity according to Norwegian standards. Indeed. I mean, he recommended what? The establishment of a reserve of the National Social Solidarity Account from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons, with a view to financing the pension sector of social security institutions, i.e. ensuring the pensions of the new generations. I believe that the strong symbolism of this legislative initiative by PASOK can be under the cult of time and size of the deposits, but it gives a strong signal to the most vibrant part of the Greek population, because this has experienced and experienced the worst of all of the crisis. I'm talking about the new generation. It does not solve the problem for the unemployed young person directly, but it answers a top question: 'We will once have a pension'. The Greek state, therefore, with the law it passed at the time and the establishment of the ELCAG, has responded to the new generation, which today is doing very well and mobilising and questioning. In particular, it provides for the transfer of funds from the State's income from dividends, rights and taxation of companies to undertake the investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons deposits and the disposal of licences for the investigations. It has been estimated, during the then debate of the proposal for a regulation on the Fund, as Yiannis Maniotis said, that for the next thirty years there may be more than 150 billion in revenue, so that the allocation of a significant part, more than 70%, to the insurance funds could be a new, particularly large source of funding. Thus, actions that promote the exploitation of our national wealth and the development of our country will be linked directly to strengthening the social fabric and the safety of workers. We note that such experience also exists in Norway with the establishment of the Gornernment Petroleum Fund. This fund finances and is financed by taxes on oil and gas, by taxes paid by companies operating the oil deposits of the country and by dividends collected from their share in the largest oil company in Norway. It is important, in fact, to manage these funds that a moral code is being observed so that investment is not made in companies that violate human rights, use child labour and are responsible for environmental disasters and corruption. The law, therefore, provides today that 75% of public revenue from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons should go to this national account. 20% of the revenue from hydrocarbons is projected to go to the Green Fund for environmental protection measures in the wider area, where research is carried out and drilling is carried out, particularly when it is sea. Finally, 5% goes directly to regional resources to create strong compensatory debts for local communities, mainly at municipal level and also at regional level. It is therefore worth pointing out that the Ethics Advisory Council was also established with the establishment of the National Social Solidarity Account. Its role is particularly important, since for the first time perhaps on these kinds of issues, revenues from the very hard oil industry raises a question of business morality. In particular, the Code of Conduct, on the basis of which the investments of the National Social Solidarity Account are made, has been established by setting criteria relating to the corporate, social and environmental responsibility of the companies in which the National Social Solidarity Account is invested. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the National Social Solidarity Account has been renewed by SYRIZA, who has since 2015 inactivated the plan for the recovery of hydrocarbons. In fact, in 2017, the then Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Stathakis, at the ceremony held at the Ministry in the context of the signing of the Convention on the Research and Development of Hydrocarbons on Land 2 in the maritime area of Corfu, also announced the establishment of the Solidarity Fund of Generations, in which the resources from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons will be directed, fully adopting the opinion of the PASOK proposal. I firmly believe that the Social Solidarity Account is required to operate and collect what was planned, namely 75% of the country's mineral wealth, so as to stimulate the insurance funds and to design another insurance system, sustainable over time. Ladies and gentlemen, the wealth of our natural resources is a wealth of all the Greeks who can secure jobs. There is a fear of local societies around environmental conditions. Our natural and cultural environment is not a negligible factor, and that is why the use of natural resources must always be made with the best technical specifications and environmental provisions. Compliance with the relevant legislation and vigilance for environmental protection should be permanent if we want to have sustainable development and avoid possible accidents. The establishment of the ELCAG is therefore a legislative initiative - a part of social security and its public nature. It aimed at transgenic justice, a concept that has been forgotten in recent decades in the country. Transgenic justice means that all generations, all generations, must make an equal contribution to the burdens of this country and that the generation that follows cannot be worse than the generation before. But this concept of transgenic justice comes together in the sense of transgenic trust, that is, one generation trusting the other and all of us having a common goal. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that the mining of hydrocarbons to such an extent in the territory is based on the legitimate exercise of national sovereign rights of the Hellenic Republic in its same wealthy sources and the expected benefit to the economic development of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u135	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. So while remaining firm in our beliefs, we are voting for these conventions that are ending years' efforts and implementing objectives, to which we as PASOK have given priority. My colleagues have said in the past - and they have repeated it and now - that the government must run to cover the lost territory of recent years and take initiatives on all energy fronts. We must not waste any more valuable national time and move quickly, moving to other areas, especially to the east plots under Crete. We must always think that these issues that are being conducted over decades go beyond each of us personally, beyond our parties. They also go beyond the composition of a current parliamentary majority or a minority. The Greek society needs as much as there ever is such hopeful acts of maturity of the Greek political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u137	Be well. Please come to Stepma, Mr. Alexander Aylonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Speaking to the Minister, I will tell him in my maiden speech as a new Member that I did not like the irony, the ironic comments you made in relation to the attitude of my party today. Words, such as cubism or, in any case, fucking, on such a serious issue, I do not think they should be spoken. Let me tell you why. Today you are voting on the conventions signed by the previous government, and you have not said a good word. However, when the previous government signed these contracts, it had as a counterparty the "Greek Petroleum". I do not understand why it is an astounding or cubicness the fact and the question that we as SYRIZA Members have asked that you intend to change the public character of the "Greek Petroleum", that is, the counterparty. To change the person with whom the previous government has been involved, to privatise the nature of the hydrocarbons mining. We have no right to doubt? You say today that "we will not change the nature of the "Greek Petroleum" and we will support the public character of the hydrocarbons extracts". Then you'll see our real place. Ladies and gentlemen, the key word that unites the theory with the deed in our debate today is the term national plan. Because it is irrelevant to discuss the ratification of the acts of granting rights to research and extraction of hydrocarbon deposits without drawing up a comprehensive strategic plan for energy policy. Plan will say beginning, middle and end. It means answering four crucial questions: where do I find myself, what means do I have in my possession, how can I use them and where do I want to go? What needs, after all, and purposes I want to serve. That means a plan. We move on, as I see, at least of what I hear today, in blindly as a country and it is nationally detrimental when there is no wider strategic view of things, especially on energy and geopolitical issues, which the SYRIZA government has put in a straight line with the social demand for the country's economic upgrading, the use of nationally and environmentally beneficial way of our natural resources within a multi-dimensional foreign policy. I'm not saying anything new. That is the political reality. You have been elected, Members of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, by saying within the election that you have a plan. Let me ask you some questions that you previously asked us. You spoke of a state plan. We've seen the plan for your state. You have essentially set the final version of an over-concentration of bureaucratic powers. Let me remind you of something else, the work plan. You remember that night what happened here when you passed that emblem in the penny in relation to the termination of contracts of employment and contract workers. Let me tell you about foreign policy, let's see who's posing? How about the Macedonian? Is there anything else I'm saying? Every day you hear it. Three hundred sixty degrees turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u139	One hundred and eighty, you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u140	I'm sorry, a hundred eighty is better. Thank you. And three hundred sixty, that is, at the same point you're staying. Let me remind you of the plan for the environment by facilitating the speeding up of all types of business and investment, even in woodland and goat land. Do you remember just poured out in the newspaper "KATHMERINI" the theme with the cavalry? Where's the bill? You're back. So where's your plan in this piece? Do not say, of course, about the issues of the climate crisis and what the Prime Minister said at the UN summit in relation to Matti, which you so much exploited. Is the same thing not unfolding, ladies and gentlemen, today on the issue of refugees? You have painted the refugee 'immigration question' to avoid the Geneva Convention. So who's fucking doing this? Is SYRIZA? Do you remember what you said about SYRIZA's responsibilities that kept the borders open? I'm always talking about the refugee. The geopolitical conditions of instability in the region, ladies and gentlemen, are now responsible for increasing the refugee flows. That's what you're saying. But you were saying a while ago. And how many other issues I can mention today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to put ourselves on a documentary basis, adequately, on a very serious subject. The SYRIZA initiative, the oldest, had a special symbolism. The symbolism involved in the Greek economy by exiting the damocles of the memorial politicians. Apart from the economic elements, however, there is a question of geostrategic and environmental issues. Both are, in my personal view, key parameters for us calling for the product of expectations for our country and the Greek people. This is because, geostrategically, the Mediterranean and the Ionian Sea acquire another entity within the reality of the hydrocarbons with Greece to be at the core of these developments that promote it to an international factor. Because I am a member of Corfu and because I see that time passes, I will refer to a number of issues of previous policy implemented with SYRIZA. Let me remind you of the establishment of the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company. I should like to tell you the introduction of an explicit ban on exploitation in NATURA 2000 areas. They are interventions which satisfy me as a member of the Corfu Parliament in relation to what is happening in the Ionian Sea. I am not satisfied, however, but I am very concerned about the issue, the maximum in my view - and I am transporting it to Parliament - of the major debates opened in the Ionian Sea region, of the seven islands - perhaps less, if I put out the Kythiras - in relation to what we are discussing today, the ratification of the Convention on the mining in the Ionian Sea. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The consultation is required yesterday! You must also have a brave and serious dialogue with the local communities where these prospects are being developed today. It is justifiable that we are voting today on 'at present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u141	Mr. George Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a comment on a number of environmental issues, even though we need to have a debate to make them self-evident. The risk of drilling pollution is an extremely serious issue and it is another thing about climate change. I would like to say that the ads that are made, as far as climate change is concerned, are ten and fifty times more important than if you extract hydrocarbons, gas and oil. Of this it is fifty times more important to what a country eats, that is, if it consumes hydrocarbons and what it consumes in its transport, if there is more energy savings, what industry consumes, what an environmental footprint the industry has and so on. There are countries which produce neither a drop of oil nor a cubic metre of natural gas, but which burn as many as ten other countries together, as well as extremely ecological countries, such as Norway, which are natural gas producers and politicians, are voting for all international conventions, agreements and measures proposed for climate change and goes by saying. I'm closing it here. I think it's just a matter of ignorance. I'm on my way to the point. First of all, what are the ELPEs? Mr. Hatzidakis told us about Iato-Acarnania and the Yannina. So let's get to know the ELPEs. ELPE holds rights to research and exploitation in two land areas, Arta, Preveza and the northwest Peloponnese. TOTAL, 'EDISON' and ELPE have 25% of the rights to research and production for the marine region 2 west of Corfu. For the Ionian Sea region 10, on the Gulf of Kyparissikos, a contract has been signed. In the sea area 1 of Ionian Pelagos, north of Corfu, they have submitted a bid. They have also submitted a tender as a consortium member for the two areas we are discussing today in the south-west of Crete. She's signed. Finally, the business structure of the companies REPSOL - ELPE expects the ratification of the contract to be ratified in the coming period, the current one. These are the ELPEs. They have an extremely important presence in the hydrocarbons of Greece. It is not ‘MOTOR OIL’. It is not 'ENERGEAN'. It's the ELPEs. The reason why this was done is sunny more obvious. I don't suppose the government would object to that. The reason for this is why the public had control over the ELPEs through 35%. If you have any doubts about this, you can refer to my colleague at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to tell you about the correspondence and understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the past period - so as not to go to other agencies - with the ELPEs and the hydrocarbons competitions. What do we have today? We have a huge twist of strategy. I would also like to point out that the same companies who came here and the 'EXXON' and TOTAL have chosen to proceed with this competition and to participate clearly and clearly - and you can check this out, Minister - with the participation of the Greeks as a company that is publicly controlled through 35%, the participation of the Greeks in a single codecision scheme. We four and a half years have faced three very big problems. With your "good morning" in 2015, we had an economy in dissolution with empty funds and a dead end program. We had the refugee she escaped from the summer of 2015. And we also had the escalation of a geopolitical instability in the region - not only with eastern neighbours - where energy was an important issue. I believe you have no strategy for any of three. The events in Moria are very fresh. But I'm staying from now on. As far as geopolitical in the region is concerned, we have pursued an energy policy, a policy with a strategy that one dimension was our energy dimension in the region. That was one of its dimensions with the public inside. This very basic factor is overthrown. Therefore, firstly, it is not the case that we are denouncing the contracts. We don't denounce the contracts. It was a strategy and these contracts were part of the strategy. At best, you leave no commitment to what you will do with this strategy. And from the statements you make that you will privatize the ELPEs, we have a overthrow of the strategy and that is where the problem exists. However, these contracts were important to the extent that the Greek State first would be regarded as an integrated strategy and, secondly, they would have a certain presence. I come to the most basic question, which is, of course, about KINAL, because I did not understand a clear position. Are you in favour or against the privatisation of the ELPEs? Leave what we did and the contractual obligations. Are you in favour or against? The general talk of safeguarding the public interest is very easy. Are you in favour or against? But, mostly as far as the government is concerned, why are you selling? What is the reason why the ELPEs should be sold? I'll come back to us and to the contractual obligations. Have you done some study that you will win the Greek public, financially and at other levels, as a regulatory instrument in the field of energy and in the field of oil and other things? Have you even calculated what the price should be in proportion to the EBITDA? Three, four, five or six times you'll be satisfied? Have you calculated any of this and we're winning? The main question is: Do you want to sell why there is a contractual obligation or do you want to sell because you want to sell? Mr. Hatzidakis, you told us about psychotherapy. Overall, New Democracy, but also you in particular, have a record, that "we sell what is sold" and that takes a little look and I recommend it to you. I insist on the question: why should the ELPEs be sold? What's the benefit? The only argument I have heard - God should argue - is from Mr Petsa a few days ago that we want to proceed with the privatisation of ELPEs in order to get funds in and move on. Who's to proceed with the funds? I mean, if the state leaves, who's going to go, Lachie? That's first. Secondly, a few days ago there was a bond loan that was overcovered three times in ELPE. They were looking for 400 million and overcovered and reached 1.5 billion euros. So there is no question of capital. I now come to the question of contractual obligation. I think things are extremely simple here. You know very well - and you are therefore breaking open doors - that it was not our political will to sell 55% of the ELPEs. We were imposed before we came out of the memorandum - because something had to be chosen - and you and the Greek people know that it was not our political will and the reduction in duty, which we abolished and the reduction in pensions that we abolished. In fact, you have also had a certain participation in this, Mr Hatzidakis. He was here in Parliament, when Mr Moscovisi had come, which you said to the unheard: "How can you open a question as to whether pensions will eventually not be cut and we can't set up a programme?" You admitted that your programme included the pension cut at the time. I would like to say to you that we did some things in the memorandum that was not our political will, and the follow-up showed that it was not our political will and that we found ways of not moving on to them. The question is: Why do you not treat it like this? When we opened the issue of pension cuts, spring to the summer of 2018 and after you became your position here with Mr Moskovis, yours came then Census and tabled a bill to remove pension cuts at the time rather than in the autumn. Why don't you bring something similar now? What's wrong with you? First, we're out of the memorial. Secondly, the agreement approved by the institutions was an agreement with the participation of the individual and the individual has withdrawn from that agreement. And thirdly, what is your political will? You want to and you can't? You haven't answered any of this. I want to note that for PPC, there is the whole record that we destroyed it, it's a mess of its financial situation and it's definitely going to privatize, first on networks, and we expect you to announce something similar to PPC itself. In the case of the ELPEs, we have taken them with enormous damage, we have brought them into an exceptional situation, precisely because we have exercised the rights of the public and we are going to sell them again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Apart from the fact that you want to sell the ELPEs, which is a completely wrong and incomprehensible position, apart from the fact that you want to sell them in a way that does not even ensure a premium, which is an even more incomprehensible position, why not exercise the rights of the Greek State to acquire 51% in the holding company that controls hydrocarbons in the country? Do you promise to practice it, yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the diplomatic theory, after having been toured in the report by the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twelve Members of Parliament, representatives of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Energy of the German Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause]] Mr. Stavros Arachovitis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must put some things on the right basis. It is another debate on fossil fuels and their necessity or their involvement in the energy mix in the country - so the country's strategy on the effects of climate change and the climate crisis we are facing - and it is another thing that we have to do and that is currently taking place for the conventions that we have before us. And I would like to clarify: with regard to fossil fuels - because we have heard monsters, it has not yet been proved that carbon dioxide produced from human activity is involved in climate change and the climate crisis in which we have arrived - we must clarify that scientists have now demonstrated that after the Industrial Revolution the curve of the carbon dioxide content is proportional to the temperature increase curve. So this has proved to be true. This debate was over decades ago when the oil industry was still trying to turn the debate elsewhere. He did it for a few years, now that's undeniable. We must not go back to such debates, because we are out of context and become insolvent - those who express this opinion, of course - to public opinion. The second concerns the strategy of the country: with the SYRIZA government a specific strategy was launched which had to do with the country's energy direction for the next few years, adapted precisely to international conditions and even more dynamically, to the participation of fossil fuels in the energy mix of the country. So that is the essence of the debate we need to have the next time for the participation of fossil fuels in the necessary energy in our country. And there we must be dynamic and adapt to the global movement calling for the reduction of the use of fossil fuels and for the increased participation of renewable energy sources in the energy mix. However, we shall now proceed to the debate that we have before us these days. Let's see first of all the identity of the ELPE Group. The Group of "Greek Petroleum" is the largest profitable group with the participation of the Greek State, where the Greek State has 35.5%. Because of the previous agreement with this percentage, the Greek State may entrust the administration as Greek State, even though it does not have 51%. If the percentage changes, you know that the administration will not be able to propose it by the Greek State. The ELPE Group is active in five countries and 60% of the refining products are exported. The group consists of forty-three companies and is listed on the Stock Exchange of both Athens and London. It has activities in renewable energy sources, gas, participates in electricity production and has a profile that is enviable for a company in which the Greek State participates. On the basis of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I say this because we must also ask questions at the end. However, let us also see the history of the process of declining the percentage of the Greek State in "Greek Petroleum". In 2011, for the first time in the fourth assessment of the first memorandum, there was a question of privatization, sale of the percentage of the Greek State in ELPE. The issue is therefore raised for the first time in 2011. The second is that by now in July 2019, the SYRIZA government managed to transform militarisation, reduce the rate of structural measure, as it appeared until 2011, to an economic measure. What does that mean, practically? That if there is a financial reason for the implementation of the budget, for the occurrence of the surpluses, then the sales percentage of the ELPEs can be used to meet the needs of the budget. Obviously, this is not a matter today, firstly because we are outside the memoranda and, secondly, the budget has a surplus of reality. Let us now come to the questions. Who today imposes the sale of the percentage, the reduction in the percentage of the Greek State in ELPEs, since, as I have explained before, it is not necessary? Secondly, what will benefit the Greek public or the Greek people if a percentage is divested to a profitable company, when the profits are about EUR 300 million per year from the operation with the participation of the Greek State? Question 3: Withdrawal of the public from the "Greek Petroleum" ensures that the environment is protected, whether or not this percentage passes to the private investor, which is currently in existence, who, at the moment, can also define the administration of ELPEs? I think the answers from all of this have become clear. There is no reason to impose a reduction in the percentage of the public in ‘Greek Petroleum’. In view of the fact that the country has a real surplus rather than the 2011 and 2014 deficits, there is no pressure to move forward in reducing the percentage of the Greek State. The protection of the environment from the participation of the Greek State is the guarantee that the Greek State, through its participation, can ensure all those security measures necessary for the protection of the environment in the areas in which use can be made. Finally, I will ask: When, Minister, it has now been shown that PPC does not need to increase its tariffs for reasons of viability, why do you insist on this strategy of increasing tariffs, when you know that this can be disastrous for both farmers and households and small and medium-sized enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Meikopoulou Alexandros has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Loverdos will be followed by New Democracy and Mr. Giannoulis from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first good month! Minister, I am very well aware that you like to speak in numbers and often - you have a densely invoked the public sphere and balance sheets. I would therefore like to begin today's speech, setting out some financial elements of the ELPEs from 2014 until today. So in 2015 we received ELPEs as a government with losses amounting to EUR 268 million. After four years of governance SYRIZA and in the middle of a crisis, ELPEs have a record of profitability, with an average of four years of EUR 750 million. So, Minister, we have an extremely profitable business, not only for Greek data, which is at the same time one of the most dynamics in Southeast Europe. I am aware, Minister, and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that these figures are not at all convenient for your friendly tactics to denounce in any way public structures or businesses in which the public is involved - with recent examples of 'OLYMPIAKIS' and PPC - so that you can promote privatisations with the worst possible conditions in the public interest each time. So, in this case, what is the new quality political given? What has had a catalyst in our attitude to today's sanctions? So the last public positions of the Prime Minister, and also of the top ministers of the government, show that there is a government planning to donate the public's shares in ELPE through the Stock Exchange to private individuals. So, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary and necessary to make a code reference to the recent past, so that I can show what we have been trying to implement in recent years, with, of course, ladies and gentlemen, the limitations resulting from our commitments to creditors. Therefore, in the agreement on the combined sale of the shares of the Latsis Group and the State to a strategic investor, through an international tender, we had two strategic objectives. The first was to be beneficial to the Greek State, guaranteeing the rights of the public in the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, and the second strategic objective was to make Greece a strong player in the energy field in the Eastern Mediterranean. Greece, Mr Hatzidakis, Greece! The competition was declared barren because the Latsi Group did not want or could not sell its share. They knew that their decision to keep the percentage would blow the competition, since no investor would have a huge amount to simply become a minority shareholder. What was it then - to remind the Minister and colleagues of the New Democracy - of the attitude, the political position of the New Democracy in this matter? You requested that the sale of ELPEs should be made at a price reflecting the real value of the company with the largest turnover in Greece and that there should be transparency in the procedures. All this before you become government. Once you have become government, what you seem to prefer is the scenario of the full sale of public shares by means of a stock exchange, which is the most unfavourable scenario, since you know very well, Minister, that it requires a large reduction of 15% to 20%, that is, the government to sell as much as it is. As far as transparency is concerned, Mr Hatzidakis, the new government has created, unless you deny it, so far the impression that it gives full control to the Latsis Group, by placing in the administration of the LATS Group's administration. If it emerges, Minister, which is very likely - the existence of large deposits, then the company, if the scenario that is being worked out and you do not deny it, will have been sold for crumbs. And give a very simple example. Let's assume you're giving all the shares of the public to a private citizen, what does that mean? What does it mean for the goodwill a private person can draw? It means full private control of energy pie, it means sovereignty on the domestic fuel market and exports, it means prospects on the electricity and gas market. Of all this, the public retreats. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy we have adopted on hydrocarbons has been based to a great extent on a company such as the ELPEs, but with strong public participation. This is because the presence of the ELPEs in any look they discover in the future would create the guarantees that the public will gain serious economic benefits on the one hand, but, of course, also with the involvement of the public and a much greater and qualitative sensitivity to environmental and social issues. If, Minister, the current government insists on the complete withdrawal of the public into the sale of all the ELPEs, that means - if that happens and you do not deny it, Mr Hatzidakis - complete withdrawal of the public interest in the interests of individuals. So it is important - to answer to the rapporteur in New Democracy too - that the clarification and conclusion of the framework within which we are discussing today the ratification of the four conventions, because in addition to all four involving the ELPEs, this is a major national issue, with an economic, environmental and geopolitical dimension.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u147	When did you sign it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u148	The research and development of hydrocarbons was based on the existence of a serious public arm for energy policy, such as ELPE. If, Minister, the government implements the complete withdrawal of the public from ELPE, it will obviously be a decision that will bring about the loss of all the benefits resulting from the use of hydrocarbons. In conclusion, the ratification of the current conventions will only have a political, economic and national substance if the government remains at a high rate in the PPE. This is a huge company with rich export activities in several Balkan countries and in Cyprus, it has modern technology, manages to hold one of the highest positions on a global scale. So not to control, Minister, a company like this in the country is out of logic. Minister, the people often say that 'a man sells coal for treasure'. So please do not originalize and sell a treasure for coal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Loverdos John from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this morning I came to this House I did not intend to speak. I do not even participate in the committee responsible, I have not studied the content of the contracts because I thought it was very simple. It was a contract sanction made by SYRIZA. SYRIZA has made these contracts. I was saying today at ten o'clock in the morning I came here, just before the meeting began, that it would be very simple. They will come here, the rapporteurs will speak, it will be processive, everyone will vote in favour and we will leave. Suddenly, I can see that there is a change of attitude in terms of SYRIZA. SYRIZA who has so far created the contract does not agree to vote on it. I fell off the clouds! If it were the logic of my friend, Nikos Friend, whom I welcome again to the House, whom I know for many years - he is a very consistent man, who has his views, respecters, who have to do with climate change - I would have no problem saying yes, here to sit down and talk about it. We may disagree, we may agree, we may have a different perception of things. But this is not what we're dealing with. Nikos Philis basically disagreed with the SYRIZA contract if you haven't understood. He disagreed because this convention was signed, not because it will be ratified today. I also heard the suggestion made by my good friend, whom I really appreciate - he knows it - of Costas Zachariadis, who tried - I am sorry to say it, Kostas! - to justify the unjustified, which is why he came out - in communication, I say this - a little embarrassment. How can you not get a little embarrassment? You came here to say 'I will not vote for the contract that we have created'. With what argument? Here's the argument that ELPEs that are not under public control have the public...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u151	The management has.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u152	The management is coming out of the general meeting. Who has the majority at the general meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u153	There's a law that gives management.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u154	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u155	Read the concession first, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u156	But he's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u157	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u158	Well, we'll see that again. With the prospect that the Greek State may lose the management of ELPE, as the SYRIZA colleagues claim, with the prospect that this will happen, without knowing it, I personally do not hide you that I - because I am liberal and I have always been liberal - am against exercising public business. But that is my personal view. The government will do what the Minister will say or what the Prime Minister will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Hatzidakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Hatzidakis is quite capable, my dear Mr. Polakis, to defend himself on his own and quite experienced and to say his views freely. And he's gonna tell them, I guess, again. But what matters is - because it is the political issue of the whole case, it has nothing to do with the ratification of today's conventions or with the ELPEs or with nothing else - that SYRIZA is trying to do with it. Understood. After the defeat of the 7th of July, he's trying to find his footprint. That's understandable. I understand that. Always a party, which goes through the government to the opposition, is looking to find the character it will have after the elections. I will not go in - it is not my concern - in the logic expressed, whether it will be blocked, whether it will become less or more PASOK, a little left or a little PASOK. That's not about me, it's about you and your inside. But what concerns all Greeks is the opposition of SYRIZA. Because the country - badly lying - is still going through very difficult situations. And, indeed, immigration is a very big issue. And, indeed, the economy has not yet been orthodox. And, indeed, there are huge problems relating to the functioning of the state. At this difficult time too, the government should also be responsible - and it is - for the opposition to be responsible by exercising its opposition role. Because here, we are all SYRIZA whether we are New Democracy, whether we are Greek Solution, either Mera25 KE or any party, we all exist here to serve our homeland, to serve the community as a whole, to serve the future generations. And if the debate - I repeat - was about climate change, we should do this at some point, because it has to be done, but without populism and without false sentiments. It must be done, because this is indeed a very serious matter, but it is not a matter of today's issue. The current issue is the ratification of mining contracts signed by the SYRIZA Government and ratified by the Government of New Democracy for reasons of time alone. No change took place in these conventions. From that point on, this is a pretext to give a simple differentiation, which ultimately does not concern anyone outside this Chamber. I can assure you that no one will find out what happened in this Chamber today, as will the day after tomorrow when the roll-call vote will take place, which, in my opinion, is useless. From there, then, what I beg you to do - to be good and the discussions here in Parliament - is to have a more responsible attitude when you find your stepping up and when you decide how PASOK you will be from here on out. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Giannoulis Christos has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Synthrakis will be prepared by the KKE. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is probably what he wishes - on the occasion of the good colleague Mr Loverdos - for the New Democracy not to know what is being discussed, what is being decided and how things are approached within the Greek Parliament. You often do, but many times you don't get that card out. Mr Minister, if I am not mistaken, a few days ago you were in Litochoro, on the edge of Olympus, and perhaps it was the reason why you were unable to attend the Committee on Regions yesterday, which discussed an environmental issue, also, on the issue of gaseous pollution in Magnesia and Volos. At Olympus and Litochoro, which you visited, you were welcomed by your party officials and friends. They may have omitted to tell you that the temperature has risen to some extent in the edges of Olympus. So I want to remind you of something. This advice was given to me by my political psychotherapist, to whom I have been from the beginning of the debate so far. Speaking of the political psychotherapist you recommended us to go, he told me something very simple. It tells me: 'The climate and the environment are not fashionable, it is necessary, nor is it a way out for political deadlocks'. Throughout the introductory talk I attended, you dealt with what is happening on the SYRIZA side, considering that even possible displacement is a deposition crime. But I would like to say to you, Mr Hatzidakis, that, in fact, against the new generations, against my son, against your younger child who has come to this world, we will not respond to the SYRIZA or New Democracy. We will respond to data generated for their future. In this future...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u163	Since July?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u164	What do you mean by July?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u165	The data from July to today, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u166	The data does not only change in the months, Mr. President. It's a constant untrustworthy of your party. This isn't about it and I'll tell you why. As much as you laugh, I will remind you that we need to trust a government that ratifys these conventions, to leave the new ones. Today I saw some time, Mr Hatzidakis, the Minister of Health sitting next to you for a few minutes. You know that it's embarrassing, it's criminal today, what Mr. Kikilis has done to abolish the self-interest of the CEDEFOP, to another wound of humanity in terms of drugs and the health of young people. But I'm closing the parentheses. There is no confidence that the government that managed to rule this place on 7 July, Mr Hatzidakis, because it is the government that spoke about the destruction of PPC and then disproved to you by the accountants, is the government that, according to "ELLENIKIKI FRYS" the KYAs needed for its operation, is the Government that hired as Deputy Prime Minister of "MEDA", it is the government that does nothing about wind turbulence that is sown throughout Greece, is the government that has done nothing for the dysosmia or is not going to propose anything about the climate, the environment, the disosmia in Volos or the Evrossos of Thessaloniki. I could add other reasons for the fact that we cannot trust you and your Government for our children. In terms of shifting, in politics you know shifting is not necessarily bad. It gets problematic when it comes back to the world. A political shift as described by other colleagues, when it helps the world, when it contributes to the future, is a step. But when you return, as you consistently do in recent months, these are backward steps. I shall set an example. I see that you're getting very funny, Mr. Colleague, the environment. I guess you don't take it, you don't want to take it so funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u167	Don't be insulting now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u168	You have a situation with the displacement. I wasn't addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u169	No, no displacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u170	Please don't have a dialogue. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u171	With the therapist, we should probably have a problem. At least respect the one who talks. Laugh yourself. I am thinking today of an example, therefore, Mr Hatzidakis, if you want to talk about the credibility of political forces that will take over and control of these conventions. In Lake Koronia you sent your general secretary to attend a meeting under the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace, where for a dead landscape they now decided to make a committee for a lake, which needed a bulldozer from the Region of Central Macedonia, in order to avoid the passages between two lakes and supply it with water. In this environmental practice and perception of things will you check contracts? I would like to close by saying - and contribute to the rest of the speakers' time - that the ELPEs, because it happens that the unit of Thessaloniki is in the area we are moving, was a public asset that continues and can continue - if you do not get Olympic - to offer it to the public economy. For all this, of course, you do not only have to deal with this one-dimensional problem. You need to understand that all that society is talking about outside, small or larger ages, about the future and concerns, about the climate, about the environment, about the planet, is not things to play or laugh indifferently within a Parliament or elsewhere. It is very serious and unfortunately you are eating the trust that the Greek people gave you on 7 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, fifteen Members of the Communist Party of Greece, pursuant to Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, have tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which, of course, relates to all four ratifications of the conventions. The debate will take place on Thursday, October 3rd, that is to say tomorrow at 10.30 p.m., to facilitate the Minister, who also has a trip abroad. I say this because we do not know yet whether the electronic voting system will work. There's an effort being made by Parliament's services to work, if we're ready on Thursday. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submitted its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for authorisation to prosecute Members of Parliament. The debate in plenary on the lifting of parliamentary immunity will take place on Thursday 3 October immediately after the roll-call vote. You'll calculate about 11:30. If there is an electronic vote, we'll be done much faster. I therefore repeat that the roll-call vote will take place on Thursday, October 3, at 10.30 p.m. and then, at 11.30 p.m., the applications for the waiver of immunity. Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. The Government of New Democracy builds on the foundations set by the SYRIZA Government, speeding up the ratification of the four concessions for the exploration, extraction and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Ionian, west and southwest of Crete to large monopolistic groups. And while SYRIZA prepared the ground, today he does not know about the "killer" absolutely nothing. He shows a defender of the public interest, hypocritically limiting his confrontation to the privatization rate of the ELPEs, when he had launched it in consultation with the TSE and the Latsis Group, so that 50% plus one of the shares would be sold. I would also remind you that the basic argument on SYRIZA, which was developed jointly with the representatives of the consortia on the need for research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, was speaking of a vote of confidence in the Greek economy as a step forward in the development, geostrategic upgrading, stability in the region, for the protection - allegedly - of the environment, was talking about the Generation Fund, in an attempt to cultivate a climate of false expectations, to ensure the consent of the people to the confiscation plans of the country's energy wealth and the uninterrupted profitability of the energy monopolies that are active in our region. The development that all urban parties are evangelizing through the exploitation of deposits - and not only - means greater energy poverty, the scanning of labour rights and the undermining of the country's energy and other capabilities, while the one who will be invited to pay for the use of any other infrastructure that is made and the needs of mining will again be the people. As far as new jobs are concerned, these will be mainly limited in time, as long as projects last and basically poorly paid. After all, it is a tangible example of the construction of the TAP in Macedonia and Thrace. In our view, there must be no reassurance from the announcements of the so-called environmental protection measures. No control exists in these investments, which are done by fast track procedures and all are sacrificed to the altar of profit. Even the strategic environmental impact study of the mining company in Crete, when it was discussed on the regional council a year ago and the majority approved it, highlighted the risks and negative effects that will have on the environment, such as underwater noise, which may mainly affect cement species, large sea depths which are precarious for the transport, storage and disposal of substances to be used for the implementation of the programme, large liquid and solid waste, emissions of pollutants and the risk of accident and pollution, leakage and oil spillage, as I say - in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. The representatives of SYRIZA then played a secret to hide their real intentions. Totally hypocritically they said not in the environmental impact study, without actually entering, while at the same time their government, the SYRIZA, then went unsuccessful to agreements with the monopolistic colossals, sowing unbearable promises. Only the JRC, here in the House at the time, today, like the People's Symbol, on the regional and municipal councils have revealed and revealed these robbery agreements for the delivery of the country's energy wealth to the multinationals, stressing that energy policy for the benefit of the people and at the same time environmental protection, can only be guaranteed to one popular authority. It is known that the control of energy sources and their transport routes is a field of extreme conflict in the region between the United States, the European Union, Russia, as well as between regional imperialist forces such as Turkey, Israel, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and other countries. Yesterday, the Ambassador of the United States of America, speaking to the Greek Association of Entrepreneurs, described our country as "strategic investment and a source of solutions, where growth and investment are obviously very important for Greece...", he evidently said, "... but also for Europe, the European Union and NATO and through NATO for the United States of America". That is, geostrategic hinge with a greater involvement in imperialist competitions as NATO signifier in the region and a conversion into an energy hub for both the foreign and local capital. This is the United States' vote of confidence in Greece, for which the business groups, NATO, the European Union and your parties are applauded, the urban parties. For the country, however, this also means turning half the country into a murderous basis, with the obscure agreement to renew the agreement on the bases discussed in a few days' time in the strategic dialogue with the United States of America, in the presence of the American Foreign Minister here in the country. For Crete, in particular, such a involvement of the country means further upgrading the Souda base, which makes it a target in the context of opposition in the region, with all the risks that this entails for its people. Unfortunately, even on such a crucial issue, the majority of the Regional Council of Crete, SYRIZA and Change Movement voted against the resolution of the People's Confederation against the infamous Greek-United States agreement on the extension of bases and especially of Souda, and the New Democracy's party called for the debate to be postponed, because it - it says - is serious. Everyone's salary is worth it! They turned out, like their parties, to be navals. The provocative positions of the Government of New Democracy, SYRIZA and the other parties to the capital that our country's involvement in the dangerous US, NATO and European Union plans to guarantee security and peace are stories of Halima, are insulting and underestimating our people. Not only does the JRC vote against these robbery agreements - as our rapporteur, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, has said - but we call on the people, youth, all workers to step up their struggle against these imperialist plans and competition in the region, the presence of NATO and the basis of Souda, demanding the release of the country from NATO and the European Union and organising joint action with the people of the region against the governments and the urban ranks of their countries. For the JRC the exploitation of the country's wealth-producing sources can only be done for the benefit of the people, where the means of production, the rich sources of energy, the means of production and distribution of energy are social property as a prerequisite for reducing the country's energy dependence, for combined and balanced use of all forms of energy, for the protection of the environment and public health, for residential areas and in general for balanced human intervention in the environment, for energy saving, for ensuring adequate and cheap people's consumption, for the safety of workers in the industry, for ensuring stable labour, for mutually beneficial transnational cooperation for research and development of sources, for the exploitation of the indigenous scientific potential and for the shielding of the country's sovereign rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u174	You're short, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u175	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Of course, such a path of development presupposes, above all, the working class, the people taking the wheel of power and the keys to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Theodore Drift from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, before I go to the main issue, to make two points on two related issues, although they do not match the subject as we are discussing. Minister, I would like to ask you one question: you have recently launched the increases in PPC electricity prices. There is already a phenomenon. Private power supply companies obviously seeing possibilities of higher profitability compete with an advertising campaign attracting new customers by offering discount packages. It is said - and here I want your answer - that in the last few days the phenomenon has been observed, PPC loses around three thousand customers every day in this process. If this is the case, what kind of resolution of PPC's finances and development on a new basis can you achieve, beyond the other issues arising from the increase in the electricity price for consumers? Ladies and gentlemen, the second is an issue that has been evolving in the wider region of Piraeus, Drapetsona, for some time now. The inhabitants of Drapetsonas and Keratsinios and often the wider region of Piraeus, including Salamis and the city of Piraeus, and other neighboring neighborhoods, suffer from odors that are very unpleasant and very annoying and with various weather conditions and winter and summer. Research is being carried out at the initiative of the Municipality of Drapetsonas - Keratini and the district, until first and foremost, by the Deputy Director George Gabrieli, in an institutional and systematic manner. They have been associated with the university, with the Polytechnic, with "Democritus", with organizations. Some samples have already been shown and the investigation is ahead. One of the most likely causes of this pollution and odors is the company ‘OIL ONE’, which has facilities there, in a vicinity of the former fertiliser port facilities, which collects, stores and processs port shipping waste water, waste. While rightly the elected ruler, Christos Brittakos, the prefect and re-elect Mayor with a large majority, complains, complains, worries, representing his citizens, receives a complaint from the entrepreneur asking him for an arrogant sum, threatens him by imprisonment, etc., claiming that there are environmental studies. This is also the relevance, in addition to the need before Parliament, to raise this issue, that it cannot be panacea and that we must end every story that has to do with the harmonious coexistence of the production base, with the protection of the environment and of the citizens, invoking an environmental study. And that can't meet real needs. So I'm now going to the point. I'm doing two pretexts here. It is over ten years and more that initially in smuggling forms or similar quality television stations, etc. had erupted - you will remember all of you - an ever-increasing philology in which scientists allegedly participated, with a bizarre science, who denounced and argued that there is a conspiracy international against Greece, so that the process of exploring and extracting hydrocarbons on Greek territory, in Ionian, in Crete and elsewhere does not begin. That's what got to be unreasonable. There have been teratologies of all kinds - we have heard them today, because there is also a continuity - that Dimitris Batsis was executed for this reason. He was not executed because he was a communist who was fighting for the emancipation of the Greek people, but was executed because he had raised the issue of hydrocarbons and industrial production in Greece. It seems that this story has many sides, because there are too many aspects of this argument and there are still too many games to play. Another thing I would also like to say is that when we went to 2013-2014 as a captive opposition with President Alexis Tsipras in Cyprus as a delegation, when all the political forces were in progress, the late President Christofias, Anastasiades as leader of the opposition, told us many different things, others on one thing completely agreed: In the fact that the hydrocarbons that were now under way would be managed by a completely state-owned company. Not just Christofias. And Anastasiades said so. Anastasiades would say that more and stressed it in this process. In this sense, therefore, SYRIZA's proposal today to join a 'PARON' vote, taking into account the differentiations made in the ELPE's ownership regime, which has nothing to do with the public interest only on the basis of an economic basis, but also on the environment, is, in the first place, valid. For me, however, - and I would like to put this before all of Parliament's wings - it is also an incentive and an opportunity to rethink. Ladies and gentlemen, the contradictions are many. In fact, as socialism cannot be held down in a single country, so a small country cannot cease to be interested in how it can exploit its rich production sources, stand in international competition, stand on its feet, meet temporary needs and transitional stages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This does not mean, however, that when we have reached the point where the "Save the planet" is not a slogan but a need and a reality, we can ignore the overall framework that is being shaped and updated. And from this point of view today, I would say to all the governments of Parliament that SYRIZA's proposal for a 'PARON' vote must be an opportunity for everyone to accept it. The Government to withdraw its proposal, the House to stop the debate on whether or not these conventions were adopted and to take over both the House and the political forces and society a dialogue on the resetting of all this data. Because global warming is a real and immediate threat. Obviously the big countries have the main responsibility. Obviously we need to shape terms and conditions of control of this insurmountable competition, which harms the planet as a whole, but above all the smaller countries. Obviously, not all of this can be just visions. There must be effective interventions. And everyone in the part that corresponds to him at least, this small contribution, should be able to make it in this direction when the subject is major. We can't first say one and then we'll see about the other. No, they have an absolute relevance for these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u178	You're short, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u179	So I would say that this is exactly the SYRIZA proposal, an opportunity and an incentive to rethink. And we do not need to hurry to ratify these conventions, which, in fact, change in the ELPEs makes them even more unfavourable in terms of the possibility of monitoring their further implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, we must make a clarification. We said that the roll-call vote would take place on Thursday. The debate will, however, be held today. There are still five colleagues to speak. Then the Minister will speak. And then after the Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those of the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's delegations and rapporteurs will want to speak with the time they are identified will do so. And the Minister will close, if he so wishes, this debate when it is concluded. I'm saying that so everyone can hear it. We said, of course, that only the roll-call vote would take place on Thursday. But don't have Thursday's suggestions for people to talk at that time. The debate will therefore be held today. So we continue with Mrs.Agerinopoulou from New Democracy, and then Mrs. Evangelia Likoulis will speak from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mrs. Agerinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the ratification by a law of four conventions on the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons which have come to Parliament within a short procedure and without presenting the environmental dimensions of these agreements beyond a brief analysis of their relevant articles. The Special Standing Committee on the Environment of the Parliament will ask the Government to present the environmental dimensions as soon as the opportunity is given. However, I believe that there is no oil extraction technology at sea for zero environmental risk and that is why the contracting companies should have an objective responsibility in the event of an environmental accident, even in the event of earthquakes of other natural and man-made disasters. I would not like to discuss a zero base, namely whether we should proceed with the exploration or extraction of hydrocarbons, as hydrocarbon extraction seems to be an uninterrupted option for our country in recent years. Instead, I would like to approach the subject from a different perspective and talk about what we can do to reduce the impact of the exploration, extraction and use of hydrocarbons on climate change. There is a way in which mining can be consistent with the transition to a low-carbon economy and not disturb at least the same climate in the long term. How? If they walk hand in hand with the parallel, extensive and compulsory use of carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies as well as conversion technologies in other materials. My approach may negate, but the extensive application of carbon capture, storage and conversion technologies is the determining factor that will bring change internationally to the terms of the contribution of hydrocarbons to climate change and, in general, to the reversal of our progress towards increasing the temperature of the planet. And I'm explaining. The phenomenon of climate change is created due to excessive concentration primarily of carbon dioxide and secondary and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is ejected into the atmosphere by both natural processes and artificial anthropogenics, mainly through mining, oil combustion, lignite extraction and combustion, land, sea and air transport and other operations. As nature produces carbon dioxide, so it removes it from the atmosphere by converting it into oxygen, mainly through green parts of plants. Likewise, man, as artificially producing carbon dioxide and ejecting it into the atmosphere, so on the one hand with extensive planting, restoring lost forests, and on the other hand with the use of new technologies, he can also remove it from the atmosphere and restore the right balance to the amount that carbon dioxide meets in the atmosphere, i.e. restore the desired balance, which no longer disturbs the climate and other natural processes. The development of techniques to remove the outstanding quantity, i.e. the quantity that is above the natural and necessary levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, in order to maintain life on earth, would most solve the problem of climate change. There are related technologies and their adoption will enable Greece to support with innovation and high ambition the transition of our economy to a low- and neutral-carbon economy and, of course, the abolition of lignite plants which will deprive a basic source of carbon dioxide and that will be done by 2028 as well as an increase in the contribution of renewable energy sources to the country's energy balance. The commitment of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere can move in two different directions, i.e., either towards storage or to convert it to other materials. In fact, carbon capture and storage is directly linked to hydrocarbons extracts, as in the case of geological, as it is called, carbon dioxide storage one of the main options considered suitable for storage is storage in the depleted natural gas and oil fields. The transmission of carbon dioxide to the subsoil also helps mining companies themselves to recover oil. So in this case mining companies should undertake this obligation to commit and store carbon dioxide and we should also legislate on it. There are already applied relevant examples, but our own universities and research centres as centres of excellence and our own businesses should take this role. There is indeed one relevant legislation, but incompletely, Joint Ministerial Decision No 48416/2037/2011 incorporating European Directive 2009/31 into national law, which lays down for the first time the conditions for both exploration permits for the selection of storage sites and carbon dioxide storage permits. Now we should also add the mandatoryity of developing similar technologies and applications for binding and storing quantities of carbon dioxide, which will be calculated by a special mathematical formula that the legislator and science will define. In addition, we can recommend imposing an investment obligation to develop carbon dioxide conversion technologies in other materials, such as suitable technologies, carbon dioxide can be bound and converted into alternative fuel, metals or other chemicals. In particular, synthetic fuels could have industrial applications and use as motor fuels. These will be very important, because if we manage to achieve this great achievement, we will also bring the definitive end to the need for further mining and the oil economy. There are related research programmes from many states, such as the United States or Australia, but also from multilateral organisations such as the United Nations and the European Union itself. So politically we must support these efforts. Extensive use of these practices can make our economy climate neutral, but also offer a negative mark on carbon if absorbed by the atmosphere more carbon dioxide than it will be produced. To close, this transition to the post-market economy of negative carbon must be a political obligation of our own. That is why I am asking today, on the occasion of this debate, for a government which each day demonstrates that it listens to environmental and climate concerns and has already presented a leading and ambitious programme to achieve the containment of climate change, to legislate immediately on the obligability of investments in carbon capture, storage and conversion technologies, and all relevant conventions, such as the current mining of hydrocarbons, to be accompanied by corresponding carbon reduction projects from the atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Atalantis Fthiotis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Then there is the floor for Mrs Evangelia Likoulis and immediately after Mr Constantine Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because a great deal has been said so far in very serious and interesting attitudes by colleagues, I think that we need to start thinking with some unnegotiable principles such as, for example, that the energy dependency of a country from abroad, in any case whether it likes it or not, is a brake on its own development. In our case, in fact, such a dependence is even more burdened by an economy, which is now almost a decade too late because of the unprecedented crisis. The numbers are vague and we're not telling them. In a very interesting day organized in Crete, it was said that a hydrocarbon unit costing 3 euros is imported in Greece as against 11 euros and then sold to the consumer for 17 euros. After a delay of four and two-and-a-half years, respectively, following the submission of the relevant dossiers, four conventions were tabled to Parliament today. Already something's fainting on the horizon. It goes without saying that the state, even late, is beginning to adapt to the needs of a sector of significant capital intensity, such as the energy sector, an area which is extremely sensitive to the dispositions on the part of the governments concerned in the bureaucratic deadlocks and, more generally, in whatever creates investment insecurity. It is true that, with the introduction of the conventions, even if there is a question of this, the country is sending out a strong signal and we should all admit it without making a sterile opposition. The country is part of a highly enhanced role in the new energy map. In this context, we should not overlook the strategic prevalence of the participation of oil and other powerful countries around it. Nor should we overlook the tripartite cooperation between Greece and Israel, Greece - Cyprus - Egypt, which has already taken place. All of this seems to mark the geopolitical upgrading of the country as an important factor in the emerging energy landscape of the Eastern Mediterranean. We should be honest with ourselves. All this is a good start, Minister, but not the end of an energy and geopolitical upgrading process, as many have attempted by the government to present it. Because if the drilling process is to be found to be useful, in fact, in terms of energy resources, there is a series of other major issues that need to be dealt with in good time and efficiently. These include the transmission, distribution networks, the preparation at the regulatory and technical level of the markets in Greece and Europe and, obviously, multilateral specific geopolitical agreements that will preserve these very important investments. Especially in the case of the two lands south and southwest of Crete, given the location in the specific areas, on the edges of the Greek and European territory, we all understand the specific nature that this acquires in relation to the neighbouring country, Turkey, but also on a diplomatic level. In any case, however, we must always remember that in the energy sector a number of sub-sectors are met and that all of these should be part of a more long-term strategic planning. That, of course, is the strategic planning, Minister, we did not hear or see him. We have not heard this initiative which is part of it, and if this project has a ultimate goal, which is to ensure the country's energy security and the gradual release from lignite, which is now undermining the domestic energy system and what it was to offer. Nor did we hear the tough framework of the hard and absolute protection of the environment, with which you should shield all these actions. Before I say two words about this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like historically to remind you that in the energy upgrade of this government initiative, none of this would be possible, Minister, if the PASOK governments were not visionary and had not laid the foundations of this important effort. I remind you of the keyboard face that was then Minister Yiannis Maniotis. Today there are too many struggling around the lead and who will get the credit. Let it be. PASOK had first come in. I would remind you that our Movement had built the roadmap and the legislative framework, when everyone else was trying to invent excuses, not to vote for the original provisions of Law 4001/2011 on research and development that were paving the way on this road today. So when others wore the party shirt, we once again wore the national shirt. Here, then, is the time to recall also Law No 4162/2013, one of the few proposals for a non-governmental party law that was finally passed by the House on the Solidarity Fund and public revenues from mining by 75% in the insurance funds and by 25% in environmental actions and back-up projects in the regions. So our Movement in this story of the hydrocarbons conventions would be a pleasure to hear it from your lips, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the latter considerations, no one doubts and doubts, ladies and gentlemen, within the many things that have been heard today, that we are in a period of energy transition and that it is our duty to go to other softer forms of energy. We are in the era not of climate change but of the era of the climate crisis. Mining of fossil fuels should therefore not be a one-way energy for us, but only the energy security net. We should not be aiming to base the economy on mining, nor should the growth model of Greece commit to fossil fuels. Our compass must be the sustainable development and exploitation of our mineral resources, which must be done within strict environmental protection frameworks. Above all, environmental discounts do not fit, nor does crocodile tears exist, nor ambiguities, nor revolts, ladies and gentlemen, because we have little memory. We all remember what he has said and what he has done. For us, therefore, when we talk about reductions in environmental matters, we are talking about reductions in matters of non-negotiable principles and supreme values. That should be well considered by the government, because we will be there to monitor everything and to monitor it closely. We never forget that growth that is not sustainable, development that does not contribute manyly to local communities, does not constitute growth but a slow-moving bomb. In no case, then, do we agree with anything less than with an overall strategic planning, with political measures, with awareness-raising campaigns and not with extremism. So what we're talking about is that. Now bring the strategic planning, the one that will be the mesh of hard protection for the environment and, of course, yes to the positive sign of the development of the country that will make it on the horizon with very great demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Paul Paulakis is called to Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't mean to talk from the beginning, but I heard the Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, and his ironic reports, and you know, because I don't raise many flies in our sword, I decided to speak. Minister, I will start with this, because each of us has not fallen out of the sky, has a route: Truth, ten to twelve years after you feel proud, when you sold the Olympics to the MIG of the late Vegeopoulos, to break the state monopoly, and finally today, ten years later, the monopoly of "AGEAN" has been created, which has led us to pay 150 and 180 euros to Athens - Crete or Athens - Thessaloniki and the last time they go out of the jungle and charge 5 and 8 euros to upgrade the position if you have more space on your feet in the planes? Do you feel proud ten years later? Do you feel proud when you said for a whole year that SYRIZA doesn't want the investment in Greek? Now - I think south suburbs, you stay, don't you? - as you come to the House, does the noise bother you from the bulldozers that have entered the Greek three months after you took over government? Did you see what it's like to tell one band and another to do it and that it wasn't SYRIZA's fault, but didn't Latsis have any money to put on? Now that investors, Cubans and Arabs are leaving, what about this today? You would go out to the government and the sky would come from the investors, while the ones that we had brought for the Greek, because Latsis said to them "I was the permission, you money, the profits half - and half. " Now what's going on? Now we're having the pillow. Mr Papadimitriou as a precursor of evil, he said, yes, must be transferred to the banks, save red loans and borrow some. Is that how the investment is going to be? That's how I become a capitalist like Gates with a free state money. This development, do you indulge in? You know, it's no self-energy and innovation of an investor. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's go to the subject on the substance. There's just got to be some references, because it's your fate, probably, to sell from the minister's position, as you've said about PPC - I'll say later about it. Should the gas be mined south of Crete? In my opinion, and vertically, yes, for many reasons. Firstly, why it ensures our country's energy. Second, because it shields us from geostrategics. They said various colleagues, I will answer specifically. Thirdly, because the environmental footprint of the gas exploitation is much less than liquid hydrocarbons, and that is why we have also put these predictions into the whole strategic plan for the non-use of hydrocarbons - otherwise this gas is mined - which is why we have put the NATURA precaution, which is why we have said no on land drilling. We've made a series of procedures for us as SYRIZA. A competition didn't thrive on our own responsibility. We signed the sanctions. We didn't change our position, Mr. Hatzidakis. You decided to sell the ELPEs. That is why we are voting 'at present'. And we make it clear: The participation of ELPEs in the holding company of 51% that will have the rights of mining, is his guarantor that the wealth that will be produced will be diffused, not only in the large multinationals or in some majestic locals but also in the Greek society. It is a guarantee that 5% will go to the regions, that the insurance funds will be strengthened, etc. There is absolutely no reason to sell the ELPEs. And I wanted to know now, you neoliberals - which in any case should give air to walk, as your ideology says - how do you return to ELPE administration, those who delivered it to us with three hundred and seventy million damages in 2015? Why are you going back to them? Because they had a lot of success then? Now it has 30 million net and seven hundred million with the EBITDA index, which we did because we exercised the rights of the public and defined an administration that had the majority of the public. That is why we are voting 'at present'. Because we do not trust you that with the policy of neoliberal ideological obsession, which is being sold, you will secure the country's interests in a long time in relation to strategic planning. Let's get this over with. The second reason I wanted to speak was the placement of Thanasis Pafili and Yani Varoufakis from Mera25. Listen, right now in the country is producing 20% of renewable energy. We have very few of PPC and quite a few individuals. These renewable energy sources are being paid for, with some agreements coming from the past. You have announced that you will abolish lignites in two years. How's that gonna happen? What's going to happen in central Macedonia? Half of Western Macedonia's GDP is due to PPC's wages and to the production activity of lignite. We don't do it like that. What are you gonna do? Will all energy fields become geothermal? How's that gonna happen? Let's say a few more general words. There is no 100% RES. My colleague's away from Mera25. There's no such thing. At the moment, for example, in Crete it is produced more than 20% by RES. But we have the stations. Because when blowing a little or blowing a lot, they do not produce wind turbines. So the system was unstable. There is still no technological progress, which will allow you to have 100% coverage from renewable energy sources. Secondly, here we need 21 GW as a country. To get 21 GW out of the photovoltaics, we probably need to cover the whole place of Thessaly with photovoltaics. And what are we going to eat? It takes attention to some things and not to throw them away like that. Listen, we know very well, too. And I say that for the JRC, which has a line of analysis, which does not respond to today's reality. Everything will be solved when we make great social change and revolution. Today, however, there is a reality, a world that must live. We want a line for today and not 'all will be solved when the future life of the advanced palliative state of socialism and communism comes'. At the moment we have to choose how to shield our country, how we get revenue as a country, how we will be able to diffuse this revenue into the majority of society, and not into ten lame that they will get public enterprises in order to qualify for their profits. We are well aware, colleagues of Mera25, that the next round of radicalisation of the new generation and the next round of conspiracy on its part of liberating programmes for another society is, yes, climate change. Only we need a very specific line in relation to this thing. Youth is a very hopeful thing. Capitalism will be questioned on the substance, that the way in which it gives production activity is sawning the branch of the planet that we are all sitting in. This is a wave. We've been on the track these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u186	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u187	This will be the next attempt of mankind through the new generation, to bring the liberation project back to the fore. We on this side of the river will, however, always take into account what we are living today, what the social interests of the majority are and what strategic plan we will move towards more friendly renewable energy sources. Lenin may have said in 1917 that "Socialism is sovietus plus electricity in the country", but today we cannot say the same thing about working councils and RES. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We haven't reached that level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. After all, we are not many speakers today. You, Mr. Hatzidakis, have no plan. You do what you do, and you do it consciously, is that at the moment you have seen the 37 billion euros that we raised with the effort and weakness of the Greek people and you want to give them away, the 9, 10, 12 million - I don't know where the ball will stop - to five, ten thousand entrepreneurs who will bring growth. That is what we will try and fight both inside and outside the House not to do. That's not growth. That's the ones who went bankrupt, I'm feeding them back to get us back bankrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u188	The last speaker is Mr Antonis Mylonakis from the Greek Solution and then the Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. I have followed all the debate on the ratification of the four conventions signed by the SYRIZA Government and, of course, they are ratified by the Government of New Democracy. Today normally - and good month - it should be a historic day, because after many years of delay, Minister, we are finally reaching the second stage of adopting four agreements and our country begins the next day to enter the hydrocarbons, enter the oil mining. I, Mr SYRIZA, would not understand it, and I do not understand it, since you signed these conventions, with some problems that we can discuss, why today you deny your signature. Minister, before I begin, I would like to ask you now to promise the Greek people who are watching that you are not going to make the big crime, to sell the percentage of the public in Greek Petroleum. I think you owe it to the Greek people. It will be a deadly crime, while our country will be able to get more money from this great job, northwest of the country to the southwest and south of Crete. You know, according to Professor Foscolo, in mining in the south of Crete, we have 5.46 trillion dollars oil. It means that the money that the Greek State can get is too much. I'm going to mention two - three things we've known from the past. Since 1945, we have known that our country has mineral oil wealth and not only. According to the Cooper Treaty, Mr Bubas mentioned it earlier in his speech, our homeland could not - I say them to listen to them, because the Greek people might not know them all - could not put their hands on these oil, i.e. mining them, before 2010. From 2010 onwards, we started cowards - cowards and arrived today. Since 1993, when I first read a book by the president of the party Greek Solution, by Kyriakos Velopoulos, and I started to be a socialist of all these benefits, which our country could have geostrategically, I understood how we arrived in 2011, and Mr. - he started this effort. So we have people who have fought a lot for these conventions here, with one of these people - and I am proud to be at the Greek Solution party - the president of our party, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos. So we're here today. I would like to ask you this, Mr Minister: is the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company, a public limited company, a legal person governed by public law or private law? And why isn't it public law? I don't think it is. Well, it seems that way. We have some things that need to be cleared up. They don't make all four contracts clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u190	I'm sorry to interrupt, law-abiding public limited liability companies are legal entities governed by private law. In any case, however, there must be a special arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u191	Why isn't it public law? Even America, Mr President, because you have raised it and you know it very well, it is exploited by a company governed by public law. That is what I asked, nothing else, and the Minister can answer us. We do not make it clear, Minister, what percentage of total profits our country will have from this country, from mining. We do not make it clear whether we can have the right to put our own expert - expert. We say that to start the percentage and then get our home money - I'm just saying it, so that people can figure it out - we have to make two and a half thousand barrels up and over. Who tells us that if we don't have our own expert - expert, we'll make two thousand four hundred, two thousand four hundred fifty and never reach over what they have to arrive or take, so that we can get the money? This needs to be clarified. No provision has been made for the post of first establishment. What's the post of the first installation? That we are extracting at one point or one seismic study and suddenly oil from this area that has a company starts and flows to another area through the polar subsoil. We also call this the 'COCA COLA phenomenon' - you must have heard it - as oxidation and the sea oxygen deposit is causing this pressure that reminds us of the opening of a moving box 'COCA COLA'. Mr. Villard said so to the committee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll finish now. Also, Minister, you need to see what is going on with the Exclusive Economic Zones south of Crete and the region of Kastelorizos. It's a chance after the tripartite. Moreover, the Foreign Ministers of Greece, Egypt and Cyprus have said that the Exclusive Economic Zone containing Kastelorizo must be defined. The look there, which will be bordered by the AFRODIT look of the Republic of Cyprus and with the LEBIATHAN of Israel, is a very big look. You also need to see what is going on with Libya. The Libyan government is currently friendly with Erdogan. It has started and is concerned about the fact that it speaks of an exclusive economic zone in Libya, which extends to Crete. You need to see this and talk to General Huffar. I think these are very important things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just finishing up and thank you. We are from the outset in favour of these contracts with certain reservations I have told you, such as that we do not agree with the sale of the ELPEs, the right to 31% of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u192	That concludes the list of speakers. Mr. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a few remarks on colleagues' comments in this seven-hour debate. I'll start with the mining. The issue has been raised - I have the impression from Mr Velopoulos - if there are conditions for national security, who can invest, who can substitute for the investment, etc. I did not regulate that, but the New Democracy Government did not regulate it. These are regulated by Law 2289/1995. In Article 4(2), all these things are clear and it is specified that the Ministerial Council may intervene whenever it considers it to be a matter of national security. So let's not create false impressions in the world. That is crystal clear and that is why it has obviously not changed from any Greek government since 1995. Secondly, as far as seismics are concerned, let me begin by saying that I am neither a seismologist nor a seismologist I intend to become. But the experts of the Ministry and the scientists with whom the Ministry has been in contact over time tell us that seismic activity is not affected, they are unequivocal in this regard, and that is what I must present. After all, this is once again a time-consuming position of all the governments that have occasionally made concessions in relation to hydrocarbons. Third, Norway. Has the Norwegian model been involved? Yeah, he's busy, but still not me. I'm the minister of two and a half months. It has dealt with my predecessors and it has been stated here in the House, when the relevant legislative initiatives came, that we are largely moving in the spirit that Norway has moved, as far as possible and in the light of the country's economic and geographical specificities. Norway is in another mining phase. It does not start, like Greece, which is actually trying to start now. Therefore, the figures are not comparable for economic reasons. Fourthly, the revenue. What's the revenue? The revenues, ladies and gentlemen, are about 35% of what investors earn and 70% of the revenue goes to the national account for the social solidarity of the generations. All of this once again, I note that I have not established it, has not been established by the New Democracy. We see a situation. We have been placed at times with a spirit of consistency, I believe, both as opposition and as government on these issues. That is why, in this spirit of consistency, we are coming and we are coming today to ratify a convention that was celebrated by my predecessor SYRIZA, Mr Stathakis, in the presence of Prime Minister Tsipras, who spoke the floor and said what I said this morning, I said a word for word. Finally, transnational cooperation. Is there transnational cooperation? On a continuous basis. I myself have visited Cairo in the first days following my swearing at the European gas forum. Then we visited Cyprus with the Prime Minister to discuss these issues. On August 7, here in Athens, we had the meeting between Greece - Israel - Cyprus, with the presence of the United States as well. On 7 October the Prime Minister returns Cairo for the tripartite Greece - Cyprus - Egypt. So we are in constant cooperation and I am glad that there is a national consensus, a national consensus on cooperation with these countries on energy issues. I hope that the privatisation of the ELPE will not blow it up. You never know what might happen. I come to environmental issues. Draft government plan for demilitarization. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little confused with the positions of SYRIZA colleagues. Others seemed to want a very rapid defoliation course, others want to go with the brake. In any case, these are your issues and you will discuss them in your internal procedures. This is the case with opposition. What is certainly a government's plan is what the Prime Minister presented, who said that our plan is to go to liberation by 2028. It is an ambitious plan, which will be combined with the national energy and climate plan. Obviously, we will take into account the country's energy security - we cannot do any different - developments in relation to energy storage, because ten years ago this was a dream fraudulent in relation to renewable energy sources, and now it is no longer. Therefore, as the world is evolving, we want to watch it. Our plan - and that is why there have been references to energy and climate, which will be submitted in December to the European Commission, will have taken flesh and bone by the end of November. I would therefore recommend that the opposition colleagues, in particular the SYRIZA, be somewhat subordinate to this, at least for the time being. Because they can wait for the project to be published and make their comments. One thing I can tell you, given that you have repeatedly spoken about the environment, that our national energy and climate plan will be more ambitious than yours. And here we are making the comparisons. I repeat that in 2030 our aim is for the country to meet its needs as a whole from renewable energy sources. And I can't stand the temptation not to mention that you're swinging the finger on a two and a half-month government for the environment, for Cornea, say, when we've taken these two and a half months and I and the Secretary-General together, when you're the government who handled the big ecological and humanitarian disaster in Eye, when you're the government who handled the way he handled the shipwreck of "AYIA ZONI" in Saronic, to refer only to these two incidents. I would be more eminent, but everyone stands for themselves and citizens judge. And I come to the notorious question of the ELPEs. Everything was fine in ELPE. I recognise that the ELPEs have had profitability, of course, linked to the oil cycle, with developments in oil internationally. Everyone who deals with the oil market knows. But I want to get yours a little rational. Since it was perfect everything in Greek Petroleum, because you decided two years ago, if I'm not cheating, to change Mr. Stergioulis, whom you put in his place, and to put Mr. Siamisi as Deputy CEO, who we simply from our Deputy CEO made him a CEO. It is generally good, because we know each other in this place, to be a little more careful about these positions. You have also asked us - and, once again and again, - why you are selling the ELPEs, you of the New Democracy. But ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, why you went to sell and why by June - I tabled it in the Minutes - you agreed with the creditors, with the lenders, that the privatisation of the ELPE should proceed. Well, you're asking the wrong question at the wrong address. Look at your political "reserve" and ask yourself why you insisted on this line until a month before the elections. That's why. We're following your own policy. You are also asking us why Mr Mitsotakis said that we are looking at all the publications about the additional privatisation of ELPEs. But because that is what you agreed in June 2019, you after the failure of the previous privatisation effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u194	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u195	It is reflected in the third report in any case in the Memorandum of Surveillance - I tabled it in the Minutes - where you say so. Mr Mitsotakis, by word, referred to what you have agreed and on which you are attacking us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u196	Do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u197	Sometimes I wonder: Since this morning, all that I've been living real or dreaming about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u198	Do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u199	Is this a normal debate in the Greek Parliament between people who respect their signature and commitments until a few months ago? And well, you're changing your position. Say you're changing position. You don't have to attack me, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy for changing positions. Find them among you, do a courageous self-criticism, say in any case 'we made mistakes in relation to the ELPEs or in relation to what I do not know'. Tell the world. I think he'll appreciate it more than turning on New Democracy. What's that? Well, it's not serious. I would also like one of you - and I put it this morning - to answer: Since you want the ELPEs everywhere and even the shareholder composition that they have today, 45% Paneuropean and 35% public, since you want the ELPEs everywhere present, all present, because in Aetolo-Carnania your government has brought you a contract with REPSOL and ENERGEAN, a Spanish company and a Greek private company 100%? Why didn't he bother you there and you brought it to ratification? Why? If you want, I stop giving me an explanation especially for that. You also do something like this in Yannina, which I said earlier to make a technical correction, that ENERGEAN has gone completely, but you have also brought the correction, you have signed the amendment to the Convention and it is again REPSOL and ENERGEAN. So what are these and why do you do them to yourselves? Anyway, your right. I'm hanging up with two hystericals. One has to do with "Olympic" very soon, and the other, too, soon, with PPC. As far as the "Olympic" is concerned, if you did not like the regulation we made on "Olympic", you were four and a half years government, and one year you told us that you were not a memorandum. You could bring in a new "Olympian". If you blame us, me, you blame yourself. In any case, I am personally proud of what happened in relation to 'Olympic', because Greek taxpayers paid EUR 400 million a year to cover the damages of 'Olympic' over the last few years, and now the Greek State collects tax and insurance contributions from the aviation sector of EUR 250 million every year. This is the assessment of the intervention in the 'Olympic' and is not questioned, ladies and gentlemen, as small-party disposition and show. I'm hanging up with PPC. You said that obviously from hobbies we came in the summer and we took measures for PPC in relation to tariffs. We didn't have how to spend our summer and we targeted PPC, we didn't care about PPC or any other company, and suddenly something caught us with PPC, and we came and we increased our tariffs unnecessarily. I shall therefore read to you a report which has been made on your day and which I shall be tabling in the Minutes to see how unnecessarily all this was. It is the report of the vowed auditor last April, who had been placed by the Panayotakis administration under the laws and provisions of the capital market. It says, therefore, that last April's report by the auditor: "On the basis of the assessments of the management - Panayotakis - that is - the above conditions, which are expected to continue during the next 12 months, but also in their entirety, together with other issues, as described in note 3.1, indicate the existence of material uncertainty, which might raise a significant doubt as to the company and the group's ability to continue their activities.". It is not our opinion that is being altered in this respect. That was the situation, and that is why we took these emergency measures. I am tabling the report by the vowed auditor in the Minutes of Parliament and do not think that we are hobbyists of measures and invoices. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You brought PPC to the fiveth of bankruptcy. We took these measures this summer, and that is why last week the new report by the sworn auditor said that, because of the fact that these allegedly unnecessary measures were taken, PPC now went through this difficult phase, from the scope of bankruptcy. It is obviously not in a paradise landscape, but it no longer faces the problems that you inherited us. That's for you to know once again that in PPC you are not prosecutors, you are accused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u200	Minister, you did not say what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u201	I have another position after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u202	Mr Colleague, Mrs Xinoyanakopoulou will answer if she wishes. We are now entering the course of the debates on the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. I will give the floor first with your tolerance, ladies and gentlemen, to Mr Karathanasopoulos, who has a good reason and has to leave and then you will all speak, no matter what. Come on, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. In conclusion, however, we note the following on behalf of the JRC: First, these contracts are mineral wealth concessions. This concession is to serve the interests of the multinationals, their profits and not to satisfy domestic but also popular needs. We are dealing with scandalous and robbery contracts, which are cut and sewn into the needs and measures of the multinationals. Any State interference is simply in conducting competitions and sharing plots. There is no other intervention on the substance of the matter, because everything is on the option of those to which the investigations and the exploitation have been granted. So both research and exploitation are the same. Secondly, state control, with regard to the results of the survey, is typical, on the basis of the information given by companies themselves, as they want to present them, and so we understand very well that it cannot have any knowledge or know-how of any state mechanism for the investigation and exploitation of the deposits. So the value and price are 'cost coals', Minister, because it is precisely because we are talking about concessions of unfamiliar value, no one has valued the value of the deposits scientifically, if they exist, what they are, firstly. Secondly, you will accept whatever information they show you about the content or not and the exploitation of the deposits. So whatever mood is in their good intentions, in their good choice. The third element that manifests that it is 'coal the treasure' is that, in essence, what are you going to tax? Any cigarette they have from the disposal of unprocessed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And we know very well - and you know well - that and everyone in this Chamber - about the triangular transactions that are taking place, about the relationships between a subsidiary and a parent and other subsidiaries, so whether they are going to hide - and they can hide their financial data. Fourth element, we have a holding. Any exploitation of deposits will be in the logic of wastefulness of existing deposits because they will try to get what is the most profitable part, so we have wasted resources. And, of course, the fifth is the environmental impact. Because precisely in any studies there is no issue of leakage and how toxic waste will be treated. What happens in the event of a large-scale accident? There have been no micro-zonal studies on where they will be installed and whether they can be installed on the basis of marine spatial planning and, of course, the case of depleted uranium bombs has been taken into account in the Ionian Sea. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it is a fairy tale - in our view - that our sovereign rights are guaranteed by these conventions. It is like saying that we have had the wolf guarding the sheep, because if that were the case, then Cyprus which has declared itself and EEZ should have protected it from the Americans and the French who have also there platforms from Turkish violations with Turkish drilling and drilling by the Turks. On the other hand, these conventions will turn our country into a magnet of conflict within the framework of the fierce competitions that are evolving within the Eastern Mediterranean. Of course these contracts are done in conditions of liberalisation of the electricity market and of privatisation. As a party - and I shall end, Mr President - we are in favour of the exploitation of every source of energy, because we do not want to be individual business interests, who are with the RES, who are with the fossil fuels and who with the rest, because the issue is not the source as a source, but it is how you use it and for what purpose you use it. From this point of view, in conditions of capitalism, the only reason that makes use of it is on behalf of profit and not for the protection of the environment, and we see very well what has happened with wind turbines in the mountains of our country, the destruction of the environment there, the change of plant and animal kingdom in the areas where wind turbines have been installed. After all, 90% of wind turbines installed in our country come from three multinationals, which are basically all three French and German interests. So we say that in the context of social property, all of our country's energy sources can be exploited, and minerals and renewable and small hydroelectric plants, for which no other party is speaking. In this way there will be rehabilitation from imported fuels, system stability, adequacy to cheap electricity for people's needs, but also for the country's productive reconstruction. In this respect, today's line is the line of conflict. We also reply to Mr Polakis who raised this question. It is the line of conflict and overthrowing this system and not the compromise, as SYRIZA did, and in the essence of service of the system and of business interests. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u204	The special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u205	Mr Minister, both in committee and today we have asked some questions and have not literally received any response. I will only begin with what you said today, which is another question for us. You said the revenues for the Greek State would be 35%. Is that about 35% of the taxes? So you've counted the taxes in the revenues too? Another question was why the financial costs are included in the calculation of the r-value. This is how if the lessee enters high loans, he can reduce his profitability - you know - so public revenues will be reduced and taxes will be reduced accordingly, so this should be checked. The next thing is how and from whom the employees' expenses are controlled. We didn't get an answer here either. You know that these costs reduce profitability and therefore public revenues. Our next question was this: The tax rate is 20% for the state and 5% for the regions. We have asked here whether it is possible to reduce further the rate if taxation is reduced in general for enterprises in the future. We were also mentioned in Annexes (f) and (g) where there is provision for insurance companies, for bank guarantees and for parent subsidiaries. However, we have said that these issues are not expressly defined. We therefore believe that it would be right to refer to all the guarantee companies in order to ensure the correct development of the project. Will you do that? We also said that there should be a special article on which international conventions would cover contractors in the event of environmental pollution. We didn't get any answers. We had mentioned Article 2 that there are accurately the stages of research and extensions. However, sanctions are not mentioned anywhere, if wage earners become late, and it is not the right solution to discount them from their position. There is therefore a need for financial penalties and fines. Would you add them? Finally, I do not want to go on with more questions that we have asked, and we have also not received an answer. I shall refer to our basic contrast, which relates to the two Aegean conventions, namely Crete. We said that compared to other contracts they have lower minimum costs, much lower minimum costs. Based on the conventions in Patraikos, we had calculated that the minimum costs should be at least ten times higher. Instead of EUR 37.5 million for each contract, it should be at least EUR 750 million for both. We wondered why there was this difference and whether you would fix it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u206	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Gocas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the importance of updating the debate and ratification by the House of these conventions, as was established between 2012 and 2014 at the initiative of PASOK. It proves once again that it is a responsibility and competence to be exercised by Parliament to increase the transparency of public procurement and, indeed, for all cases in which public property is exploited. This importance also appeared in the debate in the committee, as the need to listen to those who are badly offended, although we have proposed it, because the issues that arise are a great deal. There are environmental organisations, there are local communities, there are bodies that raise questions. They could have been formulated, discussed, debated and answered, because we must not create impressions that we are avoiding such a process. The government may have had its reasons and refused this procedure, but, on the contrary, there was no such support on the part of the opposition in our proposal. We firmly support the fact that these conventions, like previous conventions, are another step towards exploiting natural wealth for both the benefit of society and the public interest and the economy and the national interest. They form a new significantly upgraded geopolitical presence of our country in the new energy landscape of the Eastern Mediterranean region. The debate has also highlighted the importance of the institutional framework with the laws of PASOK or the laws adopted with the participation of PASOK in the period 2012-2014, with key reference to Law 2289/1995 and then with Law 4162/2013 establishing the Social Solidarity Fund for the insurance system, in particular for the new generations. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have experienced the irrationality of self-determination which is a lenient characterisation of the decision to sign the SYRIZA ten days before the elections, with all sorts of arguments and an irresponsibility towards one of their own work which is a depository of hypocrisy. They hid behind a case involving the ELPEs, for which they committed EUR 500 million of revenue to the HSE by privatising them, and remembered that this is not something they would like to support. But that is the definition of hypocrisy. Of course for the ELPEs we should safeguard their role in energy policy in relation to the public interest. Definite answers and clear answers, Minister, we didn't get you, you didn't clear the scene. We expect to see from the developments where things will lead. In conclusion, I would like to say two things about the very sensitive issue of environmental protection and conservation. We have made detailed proposals, and I do not want to go any further, which also concerns the research phase, which also concerns the mining sector, and the protected areas, in which any regulations apply to maritime areas and which are not incorporated into Greek legislation. Our proposal is that legislation should be provided and there should be, covering any omissions and updating environmental impact studies, but also incorporating new data, new specifications and new regulations. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u208	Mr Zachariadis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u209	Minister, we've been here a long time. Really some things make me a terrible impression. In 2009 you went bankrupt the country, you had previously bankrupt the CECE, then you came, you immersed it in recession and you come and tell us why we didn't bring new "Olympian". From one point to the next, be merciful! You may be a noble man, a decent man, but you cannot say in this House fat. And it's fat, especially when you talk to this party, which in those years that you waste in the country, took 4% and put them and underlined them! The second point I would like to make is PPC. The assessment you refer to refers to in the first semester. If I'm not mistaken, you won the election on July 7th. Isn't that right? In any case, we say they are useless and unnecessarily. You say that they are useful and necessary. Do you admit, Mr Hatzidakis, today 1st October that we have significant increases in electricity, which affect small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and poor and weak citizens, or do you insist on the summer line, that there will be nothing to see, which has also been passed on many television networks? Now we are going back to a debate that we have been having for ten years, but we may have to do more than ten years. Minister, when we have a memorandum - at least for us - there are forced policies, which we did not want to do, we did not think we wanted to do, but we had to do them, because the memorandum was a strangulation for society, for the economy and democracy. Mr. Hatzidakis, what did he do between 2012 and 2015 did he want? Did you like them? So, you cut 40% pensions and you liked this thing? Was that your wish? Plus all the rest, so we don't forget. So we have said - and we say it now - that we have never accepted the ideological and political paternity of programmes. I wonder - because you're very intelligent - what you don't understand! And because you know things in great depth, it seems to me how you approach them. President and CEO in ELPE, after Mr Sterioulis left was Mr. Chotsoros. You remember that, you know that very well. The Deputy Director was Mr. Siamis. I ask now: a scheme that had a successful administration in the ELPEs, and because of the circumstance and the inconvenience it had these results, why did you change it? Why did you put Mr. Siamiy and Mr. Papathanasiou? So, a former failed Minister, who wrote on a dirty napkin the measures to save Greece, reportedly reports and documentaries of the next few years, as a failed stateman came to the administration of the ELPE, in your party state in 2019, and you tell us about our own days and our period? So since the ELPEs were profitable, since this signal was going, with little changes you could carry on. Oh, no! You wanted to put your party friends and chosen parties! No more, but you told me that even though a young man, I'm making old-fashioned approaches. What you're doing is old-fashioned, Mr. Hatzidakis, not the way I speak. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Because now we are not in the fourth memorandum - or in any case if we are in the fourth memorandum, I can hear it from a top minister, such as you, from the Prime Minister, from someone - and because the government has received a profitable company, we invite you not to sell it. Is what we're telling you so hard? You're really smart people and you've been saying you don't understand since this morning. What don't you understand? We did some contracts and some agreements, where the Greek Petroleum played a central role, and you are now putting this in doubt. We have been telling you since this morning, fifty times the name of the businessman who is linked to the investment in Greek - I have at least said it ten times - and I have heard both your positions and your rapporteur and you are afraid to say the word 'Latsis'. So is history related to ELPE, this veil of opacity, with the financing of the project and the start of the investment in the Greek, as is shaped after the withdrawal of foreign investors, yes or no? It's not that hard. Would you like us to ask you a written question on a topical question? As you want us to do it to you. So on this basis and because there is the issue of climate change and you brought the plan and you are a man who is positive in dialogue with your views, with your arguments I hope the plan is more advanced for climate and environmental issues. We don't have to fight about all the issues. We are here to discuss both the general and the individual issues, but on this issue, for reasons absolutely obvious and perfectly understandable, we are placed in the'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u210	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Sedetakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, we have really come here to try to have a serious debate on four important conventions, which we have to ratify today. Instead, we saw a battle on the left, we saw SYRIZA looking for himself, we saw a conflict, a fearfulness, maybe the Mera25 starts taking his clientele, and we have the same ones again. It would make sense to re-evaluate and bring arguments back to the table, but here you see that logic is lost. And as the Minister said, we are wondering what we are living in here, people are looking to find themselves, and we are having this conversation in the Greek Parliament. In other words, we apologise for what they themselves signed indictments from those who have signed! I mean, here we're totally out of our minds, we're not talking about what we're trying to do! So I want to ask the questions again, but I wonder: does it make sense? So, now you understand climate change? Since June, when did you sign it, the situation has deteriorated so much?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u212	The ELPEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u213	You're talking about ELPE, you're talking about Latsi. Has Mr. Paulakis been here talking about Latsi, 49% of the ELPEs don't Latsis have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u214	47%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u215	So, did you sell the oil to Latsi and we sell the Greek to Latsi? Pick where we're selling, what we're doing to figure out what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u216	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u217	Since we want to sell Mr. Latsi, you sold the oil to Mr. Latsi. In other words, we cannot have a reasonable consequence of what we say here. Therefore, Mr President, I have nothing to add to the debate, because there is no debate with arguments. Here is the battle of communication to see and what the Left will do with itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u218	We have from what I see two parliamentary representatives, and then the Minister will speak. Here you go, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall refer to three points. The first relates to the Minister and also to the Government. Last night a Legislative Content Act came out, there are PPC issues in it. And here I would like us to express a very long question: with Parliament openly running fully, why should it, Minister, come out of an Act of Legislative Content? There are ways of prolonging school-leaving arrangements for school-leaving. Mr. Theodorikos has been saying this for two weeks, couldn't he bring an amendment? He has a number of issues, why does he have to come out of a Legislative Content Act? There's VAT, I get it. With regard to 'THOMAS COOK', this has been one week announced. You were supposed to tell us about the state at last, about good law-making. That's a bad start. Of course I can say something else. It has a whole arrangement for the CSTD which we cannot in any way consider to be urgent. You come to the point and you do a statement. Here you are privatising, because you obviously want to check the operation and initiatives of the CECE, which at least could have made a separate draft law. In fact, we want to state our complete opposition to this process and we are also waiting for some explanations. Now with regard to the four conventions we are debating today. First of all, I would like to say to the rapporteur, Mr New Democracy, that he is probably not well informed. I invite him to read the story of ELPE, because when SYRIZA became government in 2015, Mr. Latsis has already participated in it. It wasn't something SYRIZA imposed on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u220	I don't disagree. I said when you signed it was 49%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u221	The opposite is true. Until then, the administration was determined on the private side. With SYRIZA's government, we have government purely government command. In fact, we have already mentioned the damage they have to ELPEs and the profitability they have today. We're not evading. We say that the ELPEs are the main pillar on which these conventions were built. And because Mr. Hatzidakis has still not taken a clear stand, what does this government think about the ELPEs? It keeps saying, "We'll see", "we'll do." Mr Hatzidakis, the report you referred to in June 2019 to tell you that it was prior to the signing of the two conventions, which took place just a few days before the elections, where there was a clear commitment for the holding company with 51% of the Greek public. So this is the best proof that the institutions have had no problem, as you say. It was a matter of negotiating this and much more, as our rapporteur has said, apart from the memoranda that we are now, and there is no such problem and that. It's your business to determine your position. We believe that it is not an incidental issue or a slight obligation like others, by other political forces, to express to Parliament. For us it is a crucial issue of enforcing public interest in contracts that are crucial. Finally, with regard to the report you mentioned, I will not trial intentions, as Zachariadis said. Let us see the report you will bring, the energy and climate plan. You said you'd bring her by December. Here we are to contribute. I would, however, like to ask, Mr Hatzidakis: why is your government inclined to bring about a development law which falls short of these intentions that we, in good faith, say that you are serving, where it goes behind commitments from the Paris Agreement and certainly is a social router? So there is an inconsistency here in terms of the government's intentions and the coherence of the government and the credibility of what Mr Mitsotakis said in New York.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u222	Mr Bukoros, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I have the impression that in the last eight hours we have been living in an intensified phase of political bipolarism in the SYRIZA. I cannot explain the attitude of the opposition officer today. They came here to tell us, no matter what they signed, to suspend it, to cancel it, as we are now out of memorials, and we are supposed to be able to cancel agreements, delete signatures and so on. I would like to ask SYRIZA's present colleagues: Was it not last August 30, 2018 that the Prime Minister, in string and organs, announced the country's exit from the memoranda? Did they therefore not have ten months all of them to get their signatures back, cancel their agreements and actually pursue national policy, as they are doing today? They had all the time! What the New Democracy has not done for the past ten months has been asking for their own, their own agreements, their own signatures! Is that a responsible political attitude? Some SYRIZA speakers told us: “Take it back! It's easy. We're out of memorials." And I ask them: is it easy to get back and the public property that you transferred to the TIAD for ninety years? The conclusion drawn from today's debate is that SYRIZA must be careful to sign it. Otherwise, it's exposed. And it is unrealisticly exposed! I have heard today, Mr President, that many SYRIZA colleagues here literally break their fingers that the New Democracy Government is politicizing multinationals and they are doing national politics themselves, that the New Democracy is giving it all to multinationals and that they are protecting national interests. I'll tell you a little story today, see who gives it to the multinationals. Today, as soon as the Communications Control Board was entitled to three Greek bottling companies, the company "EFSA" by Volos, the company "LUX" by Patras and the company "BICOS". They had filed a joint appeal. Do you know where the right of companies is? The fact that your government only three days before the elections, and more specifically the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, Zorba-Military, assigned the 'COCA COLA' to the 'COCA COLA' the right to communication exploitation, the portrayal of national symbols, such as the Parthenon, which belong to the Greek State in contrast to what the legal framework provides, without any consideration! In other words, you transferred the Parthenon to 'COCA COLA' in order to make advertising and communication policy without any consideration! And today the companies that appealed have been vindicated. And you come here screaming for the New Democracy policy in favour of multinational companies! These, ladies and gentlemen, prove the maximum degree of hypocrisy that distinguishes SYRIZA's opposition tactics. It's all our wish to find your pace. Because - you know - what you say "take it all back and cancel it", it also reveals your intrinsic thoughts. Because if an agreement is cancelled as you are asking today, you know that the issue of hydrocarbons extraction will be delayed three and four and five and ten more years. If that is what you want, if you wish to haggle everything and energy policy and all the policies that the New Democracy Government is preparing, you should be aware that the New Democracy Government has a strong mandate with its post-election policy, increasing and not reducing its political capital. So you're vain, and you're exposed every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u224	We are also done with the parliamentary representatives. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u225	I was asked by the Greek rapporteur on various technical aspects of the contract. Normally I should have told you to ask SYRIZA, because SYRIZA signed it. You know, however, that SYRIZA today states "present". So I, representing SYRIZA - hopefully, without insulting you! - I would like to say about this SYRIZA Convention, which I recommend in favour of, that it is a good contract. And I wish SYRIZA had brought such contracts and such bills in general to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u226	We said, he did a good one!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u227	One good thing he did, he forgot that too! He's giving up on it, and that's where it was. In any case, I would like to say to you - in addition to the answers I gave previously and to Mr Karathanasopoulos and to others about Articles 4 and 5 - that if you look more closely at the contract, you will see that there are answers there. For environmental reasons, that is to say, the guarantees which exist in relation to the environment and the responsibility of companies are Article 12. In Article 12, all of this is identified. Also, in relation to how the costs of the companies and all other accounts are determined, Annex (c) to the contracts is available. Annex (c) refers in detail to all of these. In any case, this is not a Greek patent. And SYRIZA was based on what Mr Maniotis and Mr Maniotis have already done on this all over Europe, in particular - I told you - in Norway. There is no reason to think so much about one thing, which has been in our country for years and which follows a European and international path. This is the first observation in relation to mining. But the debate here today is not so much about mining. Second of all, it was for mining. It was mostly about the infamous issue of the ELPEs. So for the ELPEs, I should like to come back with their President from now on. The assessments made by Mr Zachariadis of the new President of ELPE do not share with them by the markets and investors, because according to everything you said, Mr Zachariadis, this morning - but you forgot about them - the ELPEs, after their new President has been placed and the Deputy CEO upgraded over your days to a CEO on our days, a few days later they came out for a bond and covered the demand three times. I therefore do not think that all of your arguments reflect something on the course of the EPPs in New Democracy. HELPE'S GOOD.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u228	That's what I told you. That's why you keep them publicly, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u229	I also want to note that I am impressed by your arguments about the Greek. Wait a minute. Here you are like the killer coming back to the crime scene. I left it once. I left it twice in my place. Uh, I won't leave it the third time. Excuse me, in Greek you were across the street, protested, seized the memorial form of SYRIZA. You were completely opposed. Until here, in this Chamber - I was here - your Government came in the summer of 2016 and said "we changed the Greek Convention now we will move forward, because we have substantially modified it". We voted for it. We did not do what you are doing today, i.e. although it was your contract, we voted for it. And we waited for the bulldozers to come in. The Minister told us then that the bulldozers would enter September 2017. You said so, we didn't make you say so. Those declarations shall be recorded. In September 2017, it passed in September 2018, the elections came, the bulldozers did not enter, and these days we are constantly trying to resolve all the outstanding procedural issues, which are more than we imagined, in order to start the investment. And the investment will start in normal, not symbiosis, with the assurances you have made from time to time. Now I don't understand what your problem is. Are you attacking us for working with the investor? But you've been working together for three years. Was the investor good when you were working together, and he's bad now that you lost the election and we're trying to unblock the case? I can't follow your remarks. And it's good to make fewer reasonings not so much that you don't get tired of us, but not to expose yourself. So in some things you don't have a very stable base to step on over time. This government is not infallible nor will it be infallible. Locate her real mistakes and do not try to opposition to the opposition and expose yourself. Also, for PPC, I read Ernst & Young's report. The previous command had placed her. It wasn't just a report about the past. Based on the past, he looks at the company's perspective and said in April that for the next 12 months we don't see them well. Maybe the company has a matter of sustainability. I say it in my own words, but that's what he said in it. That is why we have taken the unnecessary measures. And now, on the 24th of the month, Ernst & Young came out and says that the company is not facing the problem he was facing before. Again, we do not go to a paradise base, but this was PPC on SYRIZA - it is described by Ernst & Young - this is PPC on New Democracy. We still have a great deal up there, there's no doubt about it. But it is good to know between us about the situation you have given us. Don't make the prosecutors from there. And I close with a position so that I do not forget Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou's point of view in relation to yesterday's Legislative Content Act. We did, because there was no proper bill in the House. The Interministerial Development Bill was delayed a few days. There were some urgent issues, as they are, let us say, the abolition of NOME auctions that you introduced and damaged PPC with 600 million. It is urgent to abolish them in order not to become the NOME auction scheduled for mid-October. And we have chosen this method of the Act of Legislative Content, because we considered that it would be less positive, that it would be more negative - we are not happy to bring an Act of Legislative Content - to bring regulation to the current bill. Because, although this House has been a practice for many years, the Constitution itself tells us that it is forbidden to ratify international conventions to have unrestricted provisions. So in order to respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, we have brought this regulation, which is certainly constitutional and is certainly subject to the discretion of the House. That's how we worked on Matty and you hurt them there. We brought the sentence to the House and it was passed. That's how we're gonna work here. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would like to inform you that the Member, Mr Angelos Syrigos, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad on 2 October 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u231	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby concluded: 1. Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the company "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the concession of the right to search and exploit hydrocarbons in the maritime area 10, Ionian Sea, Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Consolidation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Repsol Exploracion S.A’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the Ionian Sea Area, Western Greece. 3. Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies ‘Total R&P Greece B.V’, ‘ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V’ and ‘Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company’ for the granting of the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region ‘South-Western Crete’, Greece. 4. Consolidation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total R&P Greece B.V", "ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V" and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons to the marine region "Western Crete" Greece. As I said a moment ago, a request for a roll-call vote on the principle has been submitted to you, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Environment and Energy by Members of the JRC, as well as by Members of the MEDA25. Merra25 does not have the necessary number of Members. Therefore, their request for a roll-call vote is not introduced except for the JRC Members, which will take place on Thursday 3 October 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-01-S1-commons.u232	(b) legislative work, vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and (c) discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution, and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on the request for waiver of immunity of Members of the Parliament of Mr Konstantinos Kyanaakis, Dionysios Hatzidakis and Mr Andreas Loverdou, in accordance with the special agenda to be distributed.
